Corporate Governance Introduction The overall attendance rate of Directors at Board The Board has considered the principles set out in the meetings in 2007 was over 90%.
With the exception Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued of Kenneth Clarke, all the Directors attended the by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the annual general meeting.
The following table sets Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate out the number of Directors meetings including Governance the AIC Code revised in February committee meetings held and attended during 2006.
The Board believes that during the period under the year under review.
The Board held an Awayreview the Company has complied with the provisions Day meeting in December 2007 to consider of the Combined Code, in so far as they relate to the strategic issues and also met in closed session Companys business.
The Board is also adhering to on three occasions during the year, without any the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code.
Directors attendance The Board Service The Board is responsible for the effective Private Providers and Audit Nomination Equity Marketing stewardship of the Companys affairs Board Committee Committee Committee Committee and has reviewed the schedule of No.
of meetings 12 3 5 5 6 matters reserved for its decision, which M A Loveday 12 n a 5 n a n a are categorised under various headings, M W Bunbury 11 3 n a 5 n a including strategy, policy, finance, risk, 1 K H Clarke 2 n a 1 n a n a investment restrictions, performance, R J Gould 10 n a n a n a 6 appointments, the Board and public C A Keljik 11 3 n a n a 6 documents.
It has responsibility for all E C S Macpherson 11 n a 4 4 n a corporate strategic issues, dividend J L Rennocks 10 3 n a 4 n a policy, share buy-back policy and M C B Ward 12 n a 5 5 n a 1 corporate governance matters.
In A M Wood 3 n a n a n a 1 order to enable them to discharge 1 Retired on 4 May 2007 their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At The Board aims to maintain a balance of skills, each meeting the Board reviews the Companys experience, diversity, age and length of service.
A investment performance and considers financial nine year limit is imposed on tenure to be served analyses and other reports of an operational by new Directors, only to be exceeded for phasing nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the and continuity purposes where experience can Companys objectives and is responsible for setting add to the strength of the Board, or in exceptional asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within circumstances.
In order to review the effectiveness which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and of the Board, the Committees and the individual thus supervises the management of the investment Directors, the Chairman carried out a thorough portfolio which is contractually delegated to the appraisal process in December 2007 in respect of the Manager.
The Board has the right of veto over the year under review.
This encompassed both quantitative appointment of sub-managers recommended by the and qualitative measures of performance in respect Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the of the Board and the Committees implemented by approval of private equity and unlisted investments way of an evaluation survey, a questionnaire and and all investments in in-house funds managed interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager or advised by the Manager.
Strategic issues are and the Company Secretary also participated in this reviewed regularly.
part of the process to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
With regard to individual Directors, the Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance performance appraisal was qualitative, implemented by rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best way of a questionnaire and an appraisal meeting with Practice Code.
Report and Accounts 2007 31 Corporate Governance continued the Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman follows endorsed by the Board, which is prepared to have a the same process and is carried out, in his absence, minority of non-independent Directors should this be by the Board as a whole under the leadership of the considered appropriate at any stage.
The appraisal process is Sir Michael Bunbury was appointed non-executive considered by the Board to be constructive in terms chairman of HarvourVest Global Private Equity of identifying areas for improving the functioning and Limited HVGPE in October 2007.
HVGPE is a performance of the Board and the Committees and Guernsey incorporated closed-end investment the contribution of individual Directors, building on company listed on Euronext Amsterdam.
HVGPE is and developing individual and collective strengths, advised by HarbourVest Advisers LP, an affiliate of as well as setting priorities for the following year.
The HarbourVest Partners LLC, which also manages part Board has considered the option of using external of the Companys private equity portfolio.
Sir Michael appraisal consultants and, whilst it believes that this Bunbury is not a partner of, nor does he receive any is unlikely to provide any meaningful advantage over fees from, HarbourVest Partners LLC.
the internal process that has been adopted, it could There is no chief executive position within the nevertheless provide an independent perspective if Company, as day-to-day management of the used on an occasional basis.
This will be given further Companys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
The Board has established a procedure whereby Board committees Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their The Board has appointed a number of committees duties, may take independent professional advice at as set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference the Companys expense.
The Board has direct access of each committee are available on request and to company secretarial advice and services of the can also be found on the Companys website at Manager which, through its nominated representative, www.
Membership is listed is responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee on page 27 and attendance at meetings on page 31. procedures are followed, and that applicable regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Nomination Committee other meetings are fully recorded through a process that The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to allows any concerns of Directors to be recorded in the review and make recommendations with regard to minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint or remove Board structure, size and composition, the balance the Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of of knowledge, experience, skill range, diversity and the Management Agreement.
age profile and consider succession planning and tenure policy.
It also considers the criteria for future Independence of Directors Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, The Board, which is composed solely of selection, appointment and induction.
The Committee independent non-executive Directors, regularly considers and makes recommendations to the Board reviews the independence of its members.
All the with regard to the appointment of new Directors, Directors, and in particular Sir Michael Bunbury committee membership, the re-appointment of those who has served for over nine years and is standing Directors standing for re-election at annual general for annual re-election, have been assessed by the meetings, variations in terms of appointment and the Nomination Committee as remaining independent question of each Directors independence prior to of the Manager and of the Company itself: none publication of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The has a past or current connection with the Manager Committee also reviews the attendance and time and each remains independent in character and commitment of the Directors in fulfilling their duties, judgement with no relationships or circumstances including their other directorships.
relating to the Company that are likely to affect The Committee met in May 2007 for the purpose that judgement.
The Nomination Committees of appointing a search agency to find replacement assessments of Director independence have been Directors for those retiring during the year and scheduled 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC to retire in 2008.
Following the appointment of a search All of the Committees responsibilities have been carried agency and consideration of the candidates put forward, out during the course of 2007 and in January 2008. the Committee interviewed a short list of candidates The Committee will be dissolved on 1 May 2008 and for the respective positions and skill sets required, its responsibilities will be undertaken by a combination and subsequently recommended to the Board the of the Fund Manager, the Audit Committee and, where appointment of three new Directors.
The final decision appropriate, the Board.
with regard to appointments always rests with the Board and all such appointments are subject to confirmation by Audit Committee shareholders.
An induction process has been prepared The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are for new appointees to the Board.
to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating Remuneration Committee to the Companys financial performance: to review the As the Board has no executive Directors and Companys internal financial controls and the internal no employees, and is composed solely of noncontrol and risk management systems applicable to executives, it does not have a remuneration the Company: to review annually the need for the committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration Company to have its own internal audit function: to arrangements for the Directors of the Company can make recommendations to the Board in relation to the be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on re-appointment of the Auditors and to approve their pages 29 and 30 and in note 6 on the accounts.
remuneration and terms of engagement: to review and monitor the Auditors independence and objectivity Private Equity Committee and the effectiveness of the audit process: and to The function of the Private Equity Committee is to develop and implement policy on the engagement monitor and assess the performance of the Companys of the Auditors to supply non-audit services.
It also private equity investments managed by HarbourVest reviews Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Partners LLC HarbourVest and Pantheon Ventures The Audit Committee has direct access to the Limited Pantheon and to make recommendations Auditors,  LLP, and to to the Board regarding further investments.
These the internal audit, risk and compliance director of responsibilities have been carried out in respect of the the Manager, and to the Managers group audit period under review.
The Fund Manager has day-to-day committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
The responsibility for private equity, including the making of Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects recommendations for further investments and reports relating to the annual and interim accounts and other to the Committee.
Sir Michael Bunbury represents the significant published financial information.
Companys interests on the advisory committees of All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have HarbourVest and Pantheon.
been carried out at its meetings held over the course The Committee will be dissolved on 1 May 2008 of 2007 and in February 2008.
A meeting has been and its responsibilities will be undertaken by the Fund held with the Auditors to review the work carried Manager and, where appropriate, the Board.
out for the audit of the annual financial statements.
The Auditors also attend each Audit Committee Service Providers and Marketing Committee meeting and, on the basis of these meetings, the The function of the Service Providers and Marketing Audit Committee has been able to assess the Committee is to review and monitor the Companys effectiveness of the external audit.
In completing this service providers, and the fees charged in respect review, the Audit Committee has taken into account of those services including those of the Manager.
the standing, experience and tenure of the audit Coverage extends to the Companys marketing, stock partner and his team, the nature and level of services lending and custodian arrangements, the management provided, and confirmation that they have complied of the savings schemes, as well as the review of share with the relevant UK independence standards.
registration, trade marks and intellectual property rights.
The Manager and the Company use different audit Report and Accounts 2007 33 Corporate Governance continued firms.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the restrictions, financial analyses and other provision of non-audit services, which cost 25,000 management issues.
A quarterly control report in 2007, and considers them to be cost effective is prepared by the Managers Audit, Risk and and not to compromise the independence of the Compliance Department that provides details of any Auditors.
The non-audit services include taxation material internal control failure.
The control report matters and the review of the interim results.
The incorporates a key risk table that identifies the risks Chairman of the Audit Committee is advised of nonto which the Company is exposed and the controls audit work required and a decision to authorise is in place to mitigate them, including risks that are taken on a case-by-case basis.
Further information not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The can be found in note 6 on the accounts.
Companys principal risks are set out on pages Following a recommendation from the Audit 17 and 18.
The systems of internal controls are Committee, the Board has concluded that there is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of no current need for the Company to have an internal failure to achieve business objectives and can only audit function: all of the Companys management provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance functions are delegated to the Manager, which against material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
has its own Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance The Board has carried out a risk and control department, and whose controls are monitored assessment, including a review of the Managers risk by the Board.
The Audit Committee has received management infrastructure and the report on policies and reviewed the Report referred to under Internal and procedures in operation and tests for the period 1 Controls and management of risk below and an January to 31 December 2007 the Report.
This has annual compliance report from the Managers head been prepared by the Manager for its investment trust of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
clients to the standards of the Institute of Chartered The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is Accountants in England and Wales Technical Release satisfied with, the whistleblowing policy that has AAF 01 06.
Containing a report from independent been put in place by the Manager under which external accountants, the Report sets out the its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about Managers control policies and procedures with possible improprieties in financial reporting or other respect to the management of its clients investments.
The necessary arrangements are in place The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by for proportionate and independent investigation of the Managers group audit committee, which receives such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
regular reports from the Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance Department, and ensures that action Internal controls and management of risk would be taken to remedy any significant failings or The Board has overall responsibility for the weakness identified from this monitoring.
Companys systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk Investment management management and control processes are embedded The Board has contractually delegated the in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
management of the investment portfolio to the These controls aim to ensure that the assets of Manager, giving it responsibility for gearing, asset the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting allocation and sector and stock selection, together records are maintained, and the financial information with the overall risk management of the Companys used within the business and for publication is assets, within the limits set and regularly reviewed reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering and monitored by the Board.
financial, operational, reputational, compliance The Board has reviewed and endorsed the and overall risk management, is exercised by the Managers approach to environmental, social Board through monthly reports provided by the and governance issues and voting policy which is Manager on investment performance, performance explained under Responsible ownership on page 20, attribution, compliance with agreed investment and receives periodic reports on its implementation.
34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Relations with shareholders At annual general meetings, all investors have the Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the In addition to the annual and interim report and Board and the Fund Manager.
accounts that are distributed to shareholders, All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings plans monthly fact sheets and general information have the opportunity to vote using a form of direction are available on the Companys website at and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, www.
have the right to attend, speak and vote at all A regular dialogue is maintained with the meetings.
The Manager has stated that the nominee Companys institutional shareholders and private company will vote the shares held on behalf of plan client asset managers.
As in previous years, the holders who have not returned their voting directions Chairman wrote to the top institutional shareholders, in proportion to the directions of those who have.
as a result of which telephone discussions and Shareholders wishing to communicate with the meetings were held with 13 of these shareholders Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any owning a total of 13% of the share capital.
The other member of the Board may do so by writing Fund Manager also gave a series of presentations to the Company, for the attention of the Secretary, to portfolio managers, private client wealth at the address set out on page 28 or by emailing to managers and opinion-formers across the FCITCoSec@fandc.
In aggregate, 193 managers attended the The Board monitors investor complaint levels and presentations, representing 19% of the share capital.
will keep under review the Managers arrangements In total, shareholders representing 39% of the share for Treating Customers Fairly.
capital were invited to meet or talk with the Chairman and the Fund Manager and those owning 32% took the opportunity to do so.
This communication programme proved constructive in providing a two-way forum for the canvassing of shareholder views, gauging opinion, and for enabling the Board to become aware of any issues or concerns.
The programme will be continued in 2008.
