qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 61 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Audit and Compliance Committee PURPOSE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE ACTIVITIES AND WORK OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee provides the Board with independent assurance on During 2007, the Committee met on five occasions, timed to coincide the Groups financial reporting process, internal controls and with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the Company.
The adherence to policies and procedures.
The role, responsibilities and Committee has throughout the year monitored the integrity of the work of the Committee can best be understood by reference to its financial statements through a review of the quarterly new business written terms of reference, which are published on the Companys results and final and interim report and accounts.
As part of its normal website and can be obtained on written request to the Company responsibilities, the Committee has dealt with compliance with the Secretary at the Companys registered office.
relevant parts of the Combined Code, the effectiveness of internal controls and reporting procedures for risk management processes.
The Committee, having reviewed its terms of reference and its In particular, the Committee has agreed the annual audit plan with effectiveness, collectively concluded that it was operating effectively, the external auditor and has considered the auditors reports and but as a consequence of changes to the composition of the has monitored and followed up management actions in response to Committee in May 2007, it was agreed that a full review of the the issues raised.
The Committee also worked closely with Internal effectiveness of the Committee would be better undertaken in 2008.
Audit and agreed the annual internal audit plan and reviewed the performance and resourcing of Internal Audit.
The Committee also MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE reviewed the Companys policy on whistleblowing, the anti-money The members of the Committee are Ray King Chairman from June laundering procedures and the annual compliance plan for the 2007 replacing Christopher Jemmett, who retired in May 2007, Sir Companys UK life and pensions subsidiaries.
Mervyn Pedelty and Gerhard Roggemann both appointed in June 2007 and Alison Carnwath.
Lord MacGregor retired following the The use of the auditor for non-audit work is approved by the AGM in May 2007.
A record of their attendance at meetings during Committee or its Chairman within his delegated authority.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee external auditor and has made a recommendation to the Board on has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should the re-appointment of the auditor.
Within the schedule of meetings, continue throughout 2008.
Committee meetings are normally the Committee fulfilled its main role and responsibilities and as a attended, at the invitation of the Chairman, by the external auditor, consequence can confirm that it has met the requirements of the the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Executive and, Combined Code in so far as they relate to the work of audit periodically, the Group Head of Risk, the Director of Governance, the committees during 2007 and up to the date of this report.
Director of Group Finance and the Head of Internal Audit.
On behalf of the Board Ray King Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee 18 March 2008 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 61
