qxd 1 4 08 20:44 Page 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Corporate Responsibility Report As Friends Provident undergoes this period of considerable GOVERNANCE Friends Provident has a well-developed and integrated change, our long-held approach to corporate responsibility CR management system, which includes the following: CR remains important to us and will continue to help guide  Main Board responsibility the organisation during these challenging times.
The distinct  Company-wide strategic execution values and standards by which we expect to be judged are  A CR team set out in our Statement of Business Principles, and the way  Defined roles and responsibilities across the company in which we live up to these high principles is reflected by our  Performance indicators for main impact areas inclusion in the Dow Jones World Sustainability indices and in  An objective and target-setting mechanism built into the the Top 100 Companies that Count listing.
companys strategic and business planning process  An internal communication programme Our CR programme has made good progress during 2007,  An internal verification process with all parts of the business implementing their own programmes under an overarching CR strategy.
This strategy RISK focuses on six material issues, determined by and continually CR risks and opportunities are regularly identified through Friends Providents risk management process.
The ABI validated through a regular process of engagement with Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment stakeholders.
The material issues are trust and confidence, are reviewed and reconciled by the CR department.
Key responsible investment, financial capability, community, CR-related risks have been assessed and include: recruitment climate change and our people.
For full details of and retention of key employees, responsible investing, our CR programme, performance and plans, please refer community relations, financial literacy levels, climate change, to our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report at mis-selling issues and bribery and corruption.
You can also information on the companys investment controls and risk request a copy of our CR Review, which explores the material management appears throughout this publication.
issues facing our business in more depth, by emailing MEMBERSHIPS groupcommunications@friendsprovident.
co. uk During 2007 Friends Provident has maintained its inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Sir Adrian Montague Indices and was again rated in The Sunday Times Companies Executive Chairman that Count based on an annual assessment by the charity Business in the Community.
In addition, F&C is listed separately in FTSE4Good and is a member of the Property Environment Group Index, the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change and the Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact.
We are working with a number of CR expert bodies, such as Forum for the Future, The Carbon Trust and Ipsos MORI, to develop our CR strategy and initiatives.
We are active members of the CR community and are members of the Corporate Responsibility Group, the London Benchmarking Group, UKSIF and Business in the Community.
Note: All commentary relates to the UK-facing Life and Pensions business unless stated otherwise.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 45
