qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Summary Corporate Governance Report THE BOARD governance and the code of best practice contained in the The Board provides leadership of the Group and brings an Combined Code and the above items of non-compliance will independent judgment on all issues of strategy, performance, be addressed in 2008. resources and standards of conduct.
The Board sets the INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Groups strategic aims, which it then implements through its The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks.
The approval and regular monitoring of a business plan and budget Boards vision for risk management is an environment where prepared by the executive directors.
During 2007, the Board business managers can take risks with confidence, and where met on 21 occasions and directors also attended two off-site consideration of risk is embedded into business planning, strategy meetings.
REPORTING TO SHAREHOLDERS RISK APPETITE The Company places considerable importance on Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or communications with shareholders and responds to them unacceptable risk and is determined by the Board and senior on a wide range of issues.
It has an ongoing programme of management.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set dialogue and meetings with major institutional shareholders, with reference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set where a wide range of relevant issues are discussed.
The risk appetite for the Group as a whole, and has approved more Chairman and the senior independent director are available detailed appetite statements for the individual businesses.
During 2007, six such meetings with the Chairman took place.
During the year, the Board met RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT, with the Companys joint brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and POLICIES AND REPORTING Goldman Sachs International, following presentations to The Groups governance structures for risk management are major shareholders by executive management.
This helps based on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for the non-executive directors to maintain an up-to-date managing risk lies with the business units, and with those understanding of the views of major shareholders.
specialist functions that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as Human Resources, IT and Facilities At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the Management.
Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, Operational responsibility within the Group ultimately rests particularly committee chairmen.
The outcome of every with the Group Chief Executive and is devolved through an general meeting, including detailed voting results and votes executive structure with clearly delegated and appropriate withheld, is published on the Companys website.
In particular, the Chief Executive of F&C has operational responsibility to the board of F&C In July 2007, the Company announced that terms had been and its shareholders, reporting appropriately to the Board agreed with Resolution plc for an all-share merger to form of the Company as controlling shareholder.
Members of Friends Financial Group plc.
Shareholders were kept informed Group management are, therefore, accountable for the of the progress and eventual termination of the merger.
operation of the systems of internal control within the STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS Groups core businesses.
OF THE COMBINED CODE Business unit management is responsible for putting in place A formal review of the performance of the Board, its the ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks committees and individual directors was not undertaken during and activities under its control.
The structure is designed to 2007 due to the planned merger with Resolution plc.
A review provide clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the will be undertaken as usual during 2008.
Groups business, and includes whistleblowing procedures to Following the resignation of Philip Moore on 13 November enable staff to raise concerns in confidence.
Through these 2007, Sir Adrian Montague was appointed Executive Chairman mechanisms, the performance of the business is monitored, until Trevor Matthews takes up his appointment as Group risks are identified in a timely manner, their financial Chief Executive.
implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Save for the above disclosure, the directors consider that the Company has throughout 2007 and to date applied the A second line of defence is provided by specialist functions principles and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
that undertake policy-setting and monitoring roles, such as The Board is committed to the principles of corporate Compliance, Legal and the Groups independent risk function, 13 FP AnnRev 01-24. qxd:30349 Summary.
qxd 1 4 08 20:05 Page 15 which is the central point for co-ordinating risk reporting and Pantheon Financial Limited.
The risk management around the Group.
The third line of defence is provided arrangements for these companies are appropriate to the by Internal Audit, which has responsibility for providing nature, scale and complexity of their operations.
independent assurance over the risk management process The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage and the internal controls environment.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Board: objectives, as no business can be successful without taking some risk.
They can thus provide reasonable but not absolute  is responsible for the risk management framework and for assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board setting high level risk policy and risk appetite: has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the  has delegated to the Group Risk Committee authority to Groups systems of internal controls and risk management and approve the risk framework of the UK Life & Pensions has taken into account recommendations from the Audit and business and to endorse the risk frameworks of the other Compliance Committee ACC following its review of the operating subsidiaries: and operation of the Groups risk management framework from the  considers quarterly reports summarising the Groups key Groups risk management function.
The ACC has also received: risks and the actions in place to control them, and receives  a report from the Groups independent internal audit a brief monthly update on the key risks and issues as part function of the frameworks effectiveness: and of its regular management information.
 assurances from the Group Risk Committee that the risk The Group Risk Committee: committees within the operating subsidiaries have  is normally chaired by the Group Chief Executive and is reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk responsible for developing, sponsoring and monitoring the management activities within their respective remits.
risk management activities and processes of the Through this process of review, the ACC was able to companies within the Group.
It is currently being chaired recommend to the Board that the systems of internal control by the Executive Chairman: comply with the revised Turnbull Guidance and the ABI  approves the risk management frameworks of the Groups Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment.
UK Life & Pensions business: and  considers quarterly reporting from the operating subsidiaries.
The Board recognises the disappointing financial results during 2007.
The strategic review, which the Board has Within the UK Life & Pensions business, the boards of the recently undertaken, was designed to address the issues that principal operating companies: caused this and to maximise future value for shareholders.
 oversee the management of strategic risk: In implementing the results of the strategic review, the Board  have established a Financial Risk Committee and an is committed to introducing a new streamlined organisation Operational Risk Committee, which include executive structure, simplified decision making and enhanced internal directors and other senior managers: and control processes.
The Board will ensure that there is robust  consider a quarterly summary of operational and financial risk challenge and risk analysis and that the control processes and a detailed report of strategic risk from the risk function.
will result in appropriate information being reported to the Board and management to allow them to monitor progress Within the International business, FPI and Lombard have effectively and to respond when plans are not being achieved.
risk committees comprising executive directors and other relevant senior managers that oversee their risk management AUDITORS REPORT processes and report into their respective boards and the The Auditors Report on the IFRS Financial Statements and the Group Risk Committee.
part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited for the year ended 31 December 2007 was unqualified and did The risk management arrangements within F&C are described not contain a statement under section 237 2 or 237 3 of the in detail in the F&C Annual Report and Accounts.
F&C Companies Act 1985. provides a quarterly summary of its key risks to the Groups risk function for reporting to the Group Risk Committee.
On behalf of the Board Friends Provident Distribution Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is the holding company Gordon Ellis of two businesses acquired during 2007 operating in the Company Secretary independent financial adviser sector, Sesame Group Limited 18 March 2008 14
