qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Nomination Committee PURPOSE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE ACTIVITIES AND WORK OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to The Committee has led the search and recruitment process to the Board, for all new Board appointments.
It ensures the existence appoint a new Group Chief Executive with the assistance of external of a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, the aim of which is executive search consultants.
The Committee considered fully the to ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the leadership needs of the Group especially in the light of the conclusion Group and the balance of the Board.
During the year, the Committee also undertook a search for an additional non-executive director.
The The terms of reference of the Committee, which explain the purpose, Committee reviewed the mix of skills and experience that would be delegated authority and duties of the Committee, have been published of most benefit to the Group and following a further search process on the Companys website and can be obtained on written request to recommended the appointment of Gerhard Roggemann as an the Company Secretary.
Through its agenda, the Committee effectively independent non-executive director from 19 June 2007. deals with the duties delegated to it by its terms of reference.
The individual terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the From May 2007 until November 2007, the Committee was chaired Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
Following the resignation of Philip Moore as Group Chief Executive, Sir Adrian Montague agreed to act as an The Committee has assessed whether each independent director is Executive Chairman of the Company until a new Group Chief fulfilling his or her duties, confirmed the time required of nonExecutive was appointed.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty agreed to act as the executive directors for the fulfilment of their duties, and made Chairman of the Committee during this period.
The members of the recommendations to the Board as to the independence of directors Committee are Sir Adrian Montague, Lady Judge and Ray King.
Lord and their suitability for re-election as directors.
The attendance record of members Finally, the Committee reviewed the relevant parts of the draft 2008 at the meetings of the Committee is set out on page 54.
The Group AGM notice to shareholders to ensure its appropriateness as regards Chief Executive attended when required, by invitation.
those matters to be disclosed that could be regarded as within the For the entirety of 2007, and up to the date of this report, the Committees remit, for example, the biographical details of directors Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code and their independence.
in so far as they related to the work of nomination committees.
On behalf of the Board Sir Mervyn Pedelty Chairman, Nomination Committee 18 March 2008 62 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006
