qxd 27 3 08 03:13 Page 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Governance Report THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board accepts the Nomination Committees assessment and The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or considers all five non-executive directors to be independent in through the operation of committees of directors and delegated character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships or authority, brings an independent judgment on all issues of strategy, circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, performance, resources including key appointments and standards the judgement of any of them.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, which it then Notwithstanding Lady Judge was first elected to the Board of implements through its approval and regular monitoring of a business Friends Provident Life Office in May 1994 and to the Board of the plan and budget prepared by the executive directors.
The business Company in June 2001, the Board is entirely satisfied that Lady plan specifies key developments towards the strategic objectives that Judge is independent in character and judgement, that there are are to be achieved by management within an agreed budget.
no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could BOARD MEMBERSHIP, ATTENDANCE AND BALANCE appear to affect, her judgement.
Her former roles as Deputy The current membership of the Board and the significant Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council and Chairman of the commitments of the directors are stated on pages 48 and 49.
On Professional Standards Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors 29 January 2008, the Board announced the appointment of Trevor inform her contributions to Board debates on governance issues and Matthews as the new Group Chief Executive.
It is anticipated that complement her role as the senior independent director.
The Board Trevor Matthews will join the Board in July 2008.
The names of the is satisfied that, as a non-executive director seeking re-election, chairman and members of each of the Audit and Compliance, Lady Judge continues to perform effectively and demonstrates Nomination and Remuneration Committees are stated in the reports commitment to her role, including commitment of time for Board of those committees.
During 2007, the Board met on 21 occasions and committee meetings and her other duties.
and directors also attended two off-site strategy meetings.
Nine The Nomination Committee works closely with the Board in order meetings were held as part of the regular board schedule of to ensure that the independent non-executive directors have the meetings.
A number of additional meetings were held throughout the appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the activities year primarily in connection with the planned merger with Resolution of the Board and to help the Group continue to compete effectively plc.
The total number of meetings including Board committees and in the market place.
During 2007, the Nomination Committee and the the attendance of directors at these meetings are shown as follows: Board devoted considerable time to succession planning in respect of the Company and also to arrangements for the planned merger with Total number of meetings B A&C N R I Resolution plc.
This resulted in a number of changes to the Board see key below 23 5 2 9 6 during the year.
Details of the process followed are contained in the Alison Carnwath report of the Nomination Committee on page 62.
The non-executive Non-executive director 16 3 - 8 - directors have a wide range of experience and the Board is able to Alain Grisay Chief Executive, F&C 20-- - 3 lead and give direction to the Group without any imbalance that may Ben Gunn allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision Chief Executive, FPLP 21-- - - taking.
Any director having a concern in this or any other regard may Christopher Jemmett raise it with the Chairman or the senior independent director.
Non-executive director 32 - 2 2 retired May 2007 Lady Judge All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Deputy Chairman and Secretary who ensures that Board processes and leading corporate senior independent director 19 - 2 9 5 governance practice are followed.
There is also an established Ray King Non-executive director 19 5 - - 4 procedure whereby individual directors, who consider it necessary in Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market furtherance of their duties, may take independent, professional Non-executive director 312 - - advice at the Companys expense.
retired May 2007 Sir Adrian Montague Executive Chairman 23 - 2 5 6 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Philip Moore The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that Group Chief Executive 19-- - 6 the directors receive timely and clear information on all relevant resigned November 2007 Sir Mervyn Pedelty matters.
At Board meetings, directors receive reports from finance, Non-executive director 23 3 - 3 2 risk management and each of the key business areas.
The Board, Gerhard Roggemann supplied with information that is both timely and appropriate, deals Non-executive director appointed June 2007 17 3 - - 3 with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and takes all Jim Smart material decisions affecting the Group.
These include acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer 21-- - 5 sales, capital structure, financing, the establishment of Board KEY: B Board committees and their terms of reference, and the oversight and A&C Audit and Compliance Committee review of the operation and achievement of the Groups activities.
N Nomination Committee During 2007, it has been the practice for non-executive directors to R Remuneration Committee I Investment Committee have a private session after each Board meeting without the executive directors being present.
The Board regularly reviews strategy and members of executive management also participate in an annual strategic review that considers overall business direction and its financial implications.
54 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:13 Page 55 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Following the termination of the planned merger with Resolution plc, COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD the Board announced that it would undertake a detailed review of the All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements Groups strategic options in order to maximise value for shareholders.
of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director and The results of the review were announced on 31 January 2008 and exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the Remuneration and are described in more detail on page 6.
Nomination Committees where the Chairman of the Board is a member, have a majority of, independent directors.
The Board Individual business units prepare annual budgets and business plans committees are constituted with appropriate written terms of that provide a basis against which actual results can be benchmarked.
reference that are reviewed annually and minutes of the Board Assets, liabilities, investments and other relevant criteria are also committees are circulated to the Board.
Reports on the activities monitored.
Progress against plans is actively monitored and of the Audit and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration supported by regular forecasts, which, together with actual results, Committees are included on pages 61 to 72.
Details of other are consolidated and presented to the Board for discussion on a significant committees reporting to the boards of the Company or timely basis.
the life and pensions subsidiaries are: Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is Investment Committee continually monitored, risks are identified in a timely manner, their Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, Philip Moore until 13 November financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, 2007, Jim Smart, Alain Grisay, Lady Judge, Ray King, Sir Mervyn where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Pedelty until 21 June 2007 and Gerhard Roggemann from 21 June 2007.
The Committee ensures that the shareholder assets of the PERFORMANCE AND CONTINUAL PROFESSIONAL Group and policyholder assets of FPLP and its UK regulated life and DEVELOPMENT pensions entities FPLP Group are invested appropriately.
It The Board normally carries out an annual assessment of its own considers and approves the Groups overall investment policy having performance, of its committees and individual directors.
Such an regard to the requirement, for FPLP Group particularly, that the assets assessment was not carried out in 2007 as a result of the planned should be invested to produce the best possible return consistent merger with Resolution plc.
However, an assessment will be with a prudent approach to the security of policyholders and undertaken as usual in 2008.
The Board has confirmed that it will shareholders interests and the fair treatment of policyholders.
keep the process under review to ensure that analysis of the outcome of this evaluation will give the Board, the Chairman and the Group Asset Liability Committee Nomination Committee in particular, the information they need to This Committee reports to the Investment Committee.
It comprises continue to fulfil the intentions underlying the requirements of the the executive directors of the Company, together with senior Combined Code during 2008. managers from the Life & Pensions and Asset Management businesses, and supervises the application of agreed risk appetite Following the resignation of Philip Moore as Group Chief Executive in in respect of asset liability matching for both shareholder and November 2007, Sir Adrian Montague agreed to take on the role of policyholder funds.
It also reviews the investment of, and monitors Executive Chairman until a new Group Chief Executive was appointed.
market, liquidity and credit risk management in relation to, shareholder funds and makes recommendations to the Investment Committee in After the Board meeting in December, the senior independent respect of policy on foreign exchange and interest rate hedging.
director met with the independent directors other than the Chairman to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
It was agreed that the Group Risk Committee Chairman had continued to perform effectively throughout the year Sir Adrian Montague from 13 November 2007, Ben Gunn, Alain and provided strong leadership to the Group.
Throughout 2007, the Grisay, Jim Smart and Philip Moore until 13 November 2007.
Board received presentations from various business units and two Details of the activities of the Committee are set out on page 58.
Board meetings were held at the offices of subsidiary companies in order to gain better insight into business activities and operations of With-Profits Committees WPCs of the life and pensions operating the Group at that location.
Directors also individually attend internal companies briefings on specific technical topics and external seminars to keep Details of the membership and operations of the WPCs are set out up-to-date with regulations and best practice affecting the Groups on page 63. core businesses and report on these to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
REPORTING TO SHAREHOLDERS The Company places considerable importance on communications There is a full induction process in place for new directors that with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of issues.
recognises the complexities of the Life & Pensions and Asset It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with major Management businesses and aims to enable directors to make a institutional shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues full contribution to Board discussions within an optimum timeframe.
including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed.
Further, the Chairman and the senior independent director are available to meet major shareholders and the Chairman writes annually to the 20 largest shareholders, emphasising his availability Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 55 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT should they wish to meet with him.
During 2007, six such meetings The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of with the Chairman took place 2006: none.
During the year, the the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management and Chairman and the directors met with the Companys joint brokers, has taken into account recommendations from the Audit and JPMorgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs International, following Compliance Committee ACC following its review of the operation presentations to major shareholders by executive management.
of the Groups risk management framework from the Groups risk This helps the non-executive directors to maintain an up-to-date management function.
The ACC has also received: understanding of the views of major shareholders.
 a report from the Groups independent internal audit function of the frameworks effectiveness: and At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the  assurances from the Group Risk Committee that the risk Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the committees within the operating subsidiaries have reviewed the separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, particularly effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of the formal notice activities within their respective remits.
of the AGM complies with the Combined Code.
The outcome of every general meeting of shareholders, including detailed voting Through this process of review, the ACC was able to recommend to results and votes withheld, is published on the Companys website the Board the approval of the statements concerning internal controls following the close of the meeting.
In July 2007, the Company announced that terms had been agreed As indicated by the Chairman in his review of the year on pages 3 with Resolution plc for an all-share merger to form Friends Financial to 5, the Board recognises the disappointing financial results during Group plc.
Shareholders were kept informed of the progress and 2007.
The strategic review, which the Board has recently undertaken, eventual termination of the merger.
As required by company law, a was designed to address the issues that caused this and to maximise scheme document and voting forms were distributed to all future value for shareholders.
In implementing the results of the shareholders, and a dedicated telephone facility was arranged to strategic review, the Board is committed to introducing a new support shareholder communications.
A court meeting and an streamlined organisation structure, simplified decision making and extraordinary general meeting were convened in November 2007, enhanced internal control processes.
The Board will ensure that there although due to the termination of the merger agreement in October is robust challenge and risk analysis and that the control processes 2007 shareholders were not required to vote on any resolutions.
will result in appropriate information being reported to the Board and management to allow them to monitor progress effectively and to INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS respond when plans are not being achieved.
As an institutional investor, the Company aims to exercise wise stewardship over the companies in which it invests.
The Companys RISK MANAGEMENT approach to socially responsible investments has been enhanced by The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks.
The Boards the Responsible Engagement Overlay reo developed by the vision for risk management is an environment where business Companys fund manager, F&C, which complies with the principles managers can take risks with confidence, and where consideration set out in the Institutional Shareholders Committees Code of of risk is embedded into business planning, decision-making and Activism, including comprehensive and considered voting and everyday management.
It seeks to have in place the people, dialogue, where appropriate, with investee companies.
The processes and systems to: Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found on  identify and understand the risks facing the business: the Companys website www.
com sri, which also  select the appropriate risks to accept, and price correctly for them: includes the voting reports, voting policy and latest newsletter.
 avoid, mitigate or transfer the inappropriate risks: and INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT  monitor the businesss risk profile against agreed risk appetite.
The Group has in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating RISK APPETITE and managing the significant risks it faces.
The Board regularly Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or reviews the process through the risk committee structure and unacceptable risk and is determined by the Board and senior confirms that it complies with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance management.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set with for Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial reference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set risk appetite Reporting Council and the Association of British Insurers Disclosure for the Group as a whole, and has approved more detailed appetite Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment, which focus on statements for the individual businesses.
Qualitatively, risk appetite is social, ethical and environmental SEE risks.
set within a range from risk seeking to zero tolerance, which varies The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for the according to the type of risk.
Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as no business can be successful without taking some risk.
They can thus provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
56 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 57 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS RISK CA TEGORISATION GOVERNANCE Risks are categorised as strategic, financial or operational.
Operational responsibility within the Group ultimately rests with the Group Chief Executive and is devolved through an executive structure Strategic risks are those arising from the choice of a particular with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
In particular, strategy, or with external forces acting to impair the Groups ability to the Chief Executive of F&C has operational responsibility to the board realise its strategy.
The Boards appetite for strategic risk varies from of F&C and its shareholders, reporting appropriately to the Board of risk seeking, for example in relation to finding and exploiting new the Company as controlling shareholder.
Members of Group applications of technology, to risk averse, for example in relation to management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the actions or events that could damage the Groups reputation.
systems of internal control within the Groups core businesses.
Financial risks arise from changes in financial risk factors and include Business unit management is responsible for putting in place the credit, insurance, liquidity and market risks.
The Boards appetite for ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and the different categories of financial risks can vary by risk type, by activities under its control.
The structure is designed to provide clear company within the Group and by the funds or assets concerned.
responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups business, More details of financial risk appetite are included in the notes to the and includes whistleblowing procedures to enable staff to raise financial statements on pages 149 to 159. concerns in confidence.
Through these mechanisms, the performance of the business is monitored, risks are identified in a Operational risks can arise in the Groups internal processes and timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control systems, through its people or from external events.
The Board aims procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions to build an appropriate control environment to keep the exposure to agreed and implemented.
operational risks in line with the agreed risk appetite, recognising that operational risks may arise in the normal course of business even The Groups governance structures for risk management are based when carried out in line with the Groups policies and applicable on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for managing risk regulation.
lies with the business units, and with those specialist functions that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as Human RISK PROCESSES Resources, IT and Facilities Management.
The strategic and financial risk processes are aligned to the business planning process, with risk being identified and evaluated in relation A second line of defence is provided by specialist functions that to the achievement of business objectives.
The processes are run undertake policy-setting and monitoring roles, such as Compliance, centrally by the Groups risk function in co-operation with key Legal and the Groups independent risk function, which is the central business units.
Risks within business change activities are identified point for co-ordinating risk reporting around the Group.
The third line and evaluated by the management of the change programme both in of defence is provided by Internal Audit, which has responsibility for relation to the delivery of the programme and in terms of the change providing independent assurance over the risk management process programmes effect on the business as a whole.
and the internal controls environment.
When implementing the streamlined organisation structure and The diagram below illustrates the governance structure for risk enhanced internal control processes, the Board will seek to ensure management including the interaction of various committees with that, as outlined above, there will be closer integration of the risk the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries.
assessment process within the setting of strategy and business planning decision-making.
The boards and the risk committees within the Group have terms of reference that describe their roles in the identification, assessment, Operational risk is identified and evaluated within business units management and monitoring of risk.
using a risk and control self-assessment process.
Risks are recorded on an operational risk database, along with details of the controls in The Board: place to manage the risks and any remedial actions necessary to  is responsible for the risk management framework and for setting improve those controls.
Risks are managed as closely as possible to high level risk policy and risk appetite: the source of the risk.
 has delegated to the Group Risk Committee authority to approve the risk framework of the UK Life & Pensions business and to Specific risk identification and assessment methodologies are in endorse the risk frameworks of the other operating subsidiaries: place for merger and acquisition and strategic investment and opportunities, new product developments and general project and  considers quarterly reports summarising the Groups key risks and change management programmes.
the actions in place to control them, and receives a brief monthly update on the key risks and issues as part of its regular The risk governance and management structures described below management information.
apply to all the risks facing the Group, including those that arise from social, environmental and ethical matters.
More information about the Groups performance in relation to these matters can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 45 to 47.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 57 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Governance structures for risk management FP plc Board Risk information flows Board Committee FP plc Audit & Compliance Committee Risk function Business Group Risk Committee FPLP Board FPIL Board Lombard Board FPDHL Board F&C Board F&C Financial Risk Operational FPIL Risk Lombard Risk Sesame Pantheon Management Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Board Financial Board Committee F&C Risk FPIL Risk Lombard Risk Sesame coordinator coordinator Risk Committee function FPLP Business FPIL Business F&C Business Lombard Pantheon Business units Financial MD units units units Sesame Head of Business Risk The Group Risk Committee: Within the UK Life & Pensions business, the boards of the principal operating companies:  is normally chaired by the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for developing, sponsoring and monitoring the risk management  oversee the management of strategic risk: activities and processes of the companies within the Group.
It is  have established a Financial Risk Committee and an Operational currently being chaired by the Executive Chairman: Risk Committee which include executive directors and other  has authority to approve policies for the management of strategic senior managers with delegated authority for approving policies, and reputational risks and for those risks that arise from being part overseeing the management of risks and implementation of the of a group of companies called enterprise risks : detailed risk appetite for risks within their respective remits: and  approves the risk management frameworks of the Groups UK Life  consider a quarterly summary of operational and financial risk and & Pensions business: and a detailed report of strategic risk from the risk function, together with details of activities to improve the control environment  considers quarterly reporting from the operating subsidiaries.
58 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Risk Function FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 59 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Within the International business, FPIL and Lombard have risk non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords best value for committees comprising executive directors and other relevant senior money.
The auditor must not be in a position of conflict in respect of managers that oversee their risk management processes and report the work in question and must have the skill, competence and into their respective boards and the Group Risk Committee.
The integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Company boards of FPIL and Lombard are authorised to determine their and the Group.
respective policies for the management of risk, subject to the In particular, the external auditor is not permitted to: oversight of the Group Risk Committee.
 perform work that involves the valuation of an asset or liability The board of F&C determines its policy for the management of risk incorporated into any of the Companys financial statements: and, in conjunction with management, identifies the major risks in  act as secondees to positions of influence within the Group: the Asset Management business and reviews and agrees procedures  design and implement systems that have financial implications: to control these risks, where possible.
Quarterly reports are prepared  provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be given on by each of the F&C business units across all locations.
The F&C managements assessment of accounting controls and financial management committee, which includes all executive directors of systems: F&C and other senior managers, discusses these reports and all  provide litigation support services: significant items are identified and reported to the F&C board and  provide corporate finance services: and the Group Risk Committee on a regular basis.
F&C provides a quarterly summary of its key risks to the Groups risk function.
 advise on senior executives remuneration.
The risk management arrangements within F&C are described in The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform audit-related detail in the F&C annual report and accounts.
and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit and Friends Provident Distribution Holdings Limited FPDHL, a wholly Compliance Committee or its Chairman, it is appropriate for it to do owned subsidiary of Friends Provident plc, is the holding company of so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
two businesses acquired during 2007 operating in the independent The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is authorised financial adviser sector, Sesame Group Limited Sesame and to approve the use of auditors for audit-related and non-audit work Pantheon Financial Limited Pantheon.
On acquisition, Sesame had provided that the cost does not exceed 100,000 and the aggregate an established risk committee.
Members of the Groups risk function value of audit-related and non-audit work awarded to auditors does have attended that committee and risk reporting, following the not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other Groups standard format, now flows through the Sesame board, to circumstances, the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee the FPDHL board and upwards to the Group Risk Committee.
Pantheons risk processes were less formal but appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of its operations.
The risk function has If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit worked with the senior management of Pantheon to develop formal services may be formally market-tested through a tender process risk reporting, which is now becoming established through to the involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of Group Risk Committee via the FPDHL board.
Work on risk appetite the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the with both businesses remains at an early stage but will develop needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
Following a through 2008. limited tender process undertaken in 2006 and the respective shareholder approval at its 2007 AGM, KPMG Audit Plc was INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR appointed as auditor to F&C and now acts as a single group auditor.
The Combined Code requires the Company to explain the process to ensure that auditors objectivity and independence is safeguarded in STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS OF its provision of non-audit services to the Company.
THE COMBINED CODE A formal review of the performance of the Board, its committees The Audit and Compliance Committee evaluated the independence and individual directors was not undertaken during 2007 due to the of the external auditor and satisfied itself of its integrity, competence planned merger with Resolution plc.
A review will be undertaken as and professionalism.
Having given full consideration to the usual during 2008.
Committees evaluation, the Board has satisfied itself that during the year, no aspect of the work of the independent auditor was impaired Following the resignation of Philip Moore on 13 November 2007, on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence Sir Adrian Montague was appointed Executive Chairman until Trevor and balancing that with the best interests of the Company, the Board Matthews takes up his appointment as Group Chief Executive.
has also considered the policy for awarding audit-related and or nonaudit work to the Groups external auditor.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group companys external auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 59 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Save for the above disclosure, the directors consider that the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Company has throughout 2007 and to date applied the principles that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board is position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its committed to the principles of corporate governance and the code of financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They best practice contained in the Combined Code and the above items have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably of non-compliance will be addressed in 2008. open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and applicable law and regulations.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS law, they have elected to prepare group financial statements in The Board believes that the controls in place during 2007 and to date accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it as adopted by the EU and the applicable law and have elected to continues to be committed to the highest standards of governance prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted develop in line with the requirements of the business, the FSA and Accounting Practice.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as On behalf of the Board adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the Gordon Ellis performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in Company Secretary relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant 18 March 2008 part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently:  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent:  for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU:  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
60 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006
