114 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance Good corporate governance is about running the Company Independence well.
At HBOS, we aspire to the highest standards of corporate All of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board governance, not as an exercise in compliance, but as a means to be independent and throughout the year at least half of the of driving the performance of the business.
Board comprised independent Non-executive Directors.
To be independent, the Board requires a Director to be independent Corporate governance involves putting in place an effective in character and judgement and to be free of relationships or internal framework of authority and accountability that promotes circumstances which could affect their judgement.
success whilst managing and mitigating risk.
It is also outward looking: it is about how the Company and its Directors engage Division of responsibilities and interact with shareholders and other key stakeholders.
The Chairman leads the Board while the Chief Executive We aim to challenge and refresh our approach to corporate manages the Groups businesses these are distinct functions.
governance in order to keep it live, well embedded and at the The responsibilities and speci c accountabilities of the forefront of best practice development.
Chairman, the Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive Directors, the Chief Executive, the remaining This report gives detailed information on our corporate Executive Directors and other senior executives are set out governance arrangements and outlines how we apply the in the Groups Board Control Manual which is explained principles of the 2006 Combined Code the Code.
For further on the following page.
further information, additional documents can be downloaded from our website and these are identi ed on page 116.
Chairman Dennis Stevenson The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
This includes responsibility for Compliance Statement the clarity and timeliness of information provided to the Board and for facilitating the effective contribution of all The Company considers that it has complied throughout the year Directors.
The Chairman ensures that new Directors receive with all of the provisions within section 1 of the Code, other than comprehensive tailored induction training and that regular provision C. 3.1 which recommends that the Audit Committee training is incorporated within the Board programme.
should comprise solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Our Audit Committee membership includes John Ormerod, The Chairman has a key role in the development jointly with the who is neither an HBOS Director nor an employee of the Group.
He brings an entirely independent and experienced additional Chief Executive of the Groups strategy, as well as oversight of resource to the Audit Committees deliberations which, we believe, strategy implementation and performance delivery.
He ensures exceeds the spirit of the Code, and is entirely consistent with the that there is a constructive and close working relationship with Codes aim of protecting the independence of the Audit Committee.
An in-depth review of the Companys Biographical details for John are given on page 118. strategy, hosted by the Chairman, was held in early 2007.
This took the form of a dedicated discursive session looking at The Board value generation over a longer time frame.
Issues considered Composition included growth opportunities in each of the divisions as well At the year end, the Board comprised the Chairman, eight as investor views, risk appetite and the international landscape.
Executive Directors and eight independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that it is of an appropriate During the year, the Chairman frequently along with the size to oversee the Groups businesses, with a suitable diversity Deputy Chairman has continued his practice of meeting of backgrounds and mix of experience and expertise to executive teams across the business outwith formal Board maximise its effectiveness.
These matters are kept under meetings.
The purpose of the meetings is to understand in continuous review by the Nomination Committee.
more detail each teams key deliverables and motivations, to inform the Chairmans contributions to debate and support his leadership of the Board.
All Non-executive Directors are encouraged similarly to engage directly Balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors with executive management across the business.
as at 31 December 2007 The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors 1 Chairman individually, without any Executive Directors present, 8 Executive Directors 8 Non-executive Directors on a rolling basis throughout the year.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 115 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director Key activities of the Board include: Sir Ron Garrick Strategy and risk the Board approves and oversees the The Senior Independent Director attended the Companys Groups strategic direction.
results presentations to analysts during the year, giving him the opportunity to hear analysts questions and understand their Approving the Business Plan which fide fines views.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available the Groups strategic and operating objectives and to meet shareholders on request.
Should any shareholder the risk framework within which it operates.
have a concern which they feel cannot be resolved through the routine mechanisms for investor communication, or through Management oversight the Board routinely the Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate, they are reviews operating, financial and risk performance encouraged to contact the Senior Independent Director, and receives reports from divisional heads.
initially via the Company Secretary at the Registered Of ce.
Regulatory legal activity including the approval Election and re-election of Directors of the Companys results, dividends, other key All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first documents and any substantial transactions.
Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment, and accordingly John E Mack, Dan Watkins, Philip Gore-Randall Appointments in 2007 the Board approved the and Mike Ellis, all appointed Directors since the last AGM, will appointments of Richard Cousins, John E Mack, present themselves for election at the 2008 AGM.
Dan Watkins, Philip Gore-Randall and Mike Ellis.
In addition, the Company requires all Directors to stand for reApproval of new or material changes to election at intervals of no more than three years, hence Dennis existing employee share schemes, subject Stevenson, Karen Jones and Colin Matthew will retire at the to shareholder approval as appropriate.
forthcoming AGM and will seek re-election by shareholders.
Approval of capital expenditure as well as guarantees, Having completed two three-year terms as a Non-executive indemnities and securities, all above pre-fide ned limits.
Director of HBOS, Charles Dunstone will retire at the forthcoming AGM and will not offer himself for re-election.
Ethics the Board sets the standards to which the Group aspires in dealings with its key stakeholders The Chairman has endorsed the effectiveness and commitment in a statement The Way We Do Business.
of all Directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM, 115 and the Senior Independent Director has given a similar Meetings endorsement in respect of the Chairmans re-election.
The Board held ten meetings during 2007.
Details of Directors attendance at these meetings are set out in the table below.
Board Proceedings Governance framework Board meetings Eligible to The Groups key internal governance document is the attended attend Board Control Manual.
This draws together the schedule of Current Directors matters reserved to the Board, terms of reference for Board Dennis Stevenson 10 10 and Executive Committees as well as role descriptions and authority levels for Directors and senior executives.
For Andy Hornby 10 10 those matters not speci cally reserved to the Board, the Peter Cummings 10 10 Manual prescribes the cascade of authorities delegated Jo Dawson 10 10 throughout the Group.
The Board Control Manual is Mike Ellis from 25 September 2007 3 3 refreshed regularly and the terms of reference of the Boards Philip Gore-Randall principal Committees are reviewed on an annual basis.
from 15 September 2007 3 3 Phil Hodkinson to 31 December 2007 10 10 At each meeting, the Board receives a financial and operational Colin Matthew 10 10 update from the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors before considering speci c matters requiring approval Dan Watkins from 5 September 2007 3 3 and a rolling programme of strategic reviews.
All matters Richard Cousins from 1 March 2007 6 8 requiring a decision are supported by formal analysis of all Charles Dunstone 9 10 relevant aspects of the proposal.
During 2007, the Board Sir Ron Garrick 10 10 has monitored closely market developments as well as Anthony Hobson 10 10 receiving regular progress updates on the implementation Karen Jones 9 10 of the Basel II framework.
The Board has also been kept up John E Mack from 1 May 2007 6 6 to date on the changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, especially the statutory statement of directors duties.
Coline McConville 10 10 Kate Nealon 10 10 Former Directors Benny Higgins to 10 August 2007 7 7 Sir Brian Ivory to 25 April 2007 4 4 David Shearer to 25 April 2007 4 4 116 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Executive Committee Case Study Induction John E Mack The Executive Committee, led by the Chief Executive Andy Hornby and consisting of all HBOS Executive Directors plus the John E Mack joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on Company Secretary & Group Counsel Harry Baines and the 1 May 2007.
With extensive experience in the banking sector both in Group Risk Director Peter Hickman, met 11 times during 2007 America and Japan, Johns induction programme was targeted at as well as holding two strategy days.
The Executive Committee building his Company-speci c knowledge.
An initial series of private meetings with the Chairman, the Chief Executive, other Executive has no speci c authority delegated to it by the Board, but Directors, the Company Secretary and other business heads was provides advice and support to the Chief Executive, in particular arranged in the months immediately following Johns appointment.
in relation to strategy and matters having cross-divisional or This enabled John to develop his understanding of the Companys Group-wide implications.
The Committee also takes the lead strategy, its financial and operational performance and the key role in preparing the Groups Business Plan, for approval by drivers in each of the divisions.
This phase also included meeting the Board, and reviews all issues and papers requiring Board key executives from Investor Relations, Risk and HR, as well as or Audit Committee approval acting upon decisions of those branch visits.
The second phase of Johns induction focused on his membership of the Audit Committee and chairmanship of the Treasury & Asset Internal control Management Risk Control Committee.
It included meetings The Board, through the Audit Committee, has overall with members of the Treasury and Insight teams as well as responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk representatives of the external auditors, KPMG.
More recently, management and reviews its effectiveness annually.
The review John has spent time with the Corporate and Retail teams as well covers financial, operational, compliance and risk management as holding meetings with the new Executive Directors appointed in September 2007.
John continues to meet with executives from controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk the IT function to enhance his understanding of the Companys IT management and internal control systems are the responsibility strategy and to share his expertise in this eld.
of the Chief Executive with support from the other Executive Directors and senior executives.
Systems are designed to The Company believes that training is essential to enable manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and Directors and Board Committee members to update their provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement skills and to ensure they have the necessary knowledge and or loss.
The Audit Committee has received con rmation that familiarity to perform effectively.
During the year, the Board management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action received training and updates in relation to the capital treatment to remedy any failings or weaknesses identi ed through the of Basel II and the implications for the Group of this revised operation of the HBOS framework of controls.
approach, as well as other topics including the Companies Act 2006.
Further details of the Groups internal controls are disclosed in the Risk Management report on pages 85 to 104.
In addition to ongoing training, a formal programme of re-induction is currently being introduced.
This will be targeted Online Find out even more at Non-executive Directors and will allow them to consider in a structured way developments since their initial appointment, You can nd out more about our approach to corporate governance both in the Groups operations and in the economic, corporate by accessing the following documents online at www.
com and regulatory environment applicable to the Groups Terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration businesses.
and Nomination Committees Schedule of matters reserved to the Board Board and Director evaluation The performance and effectiveness of the Board and each of its Memorandum and Articles of Association Committees is evaluated annually.
In the past year this exercise Biographies of HBOS Directors was undertaken internally.
The Chairman met privately with Corporate responsibility each of the Directors and where appropriate, other Committee History of the Group attendees to discuss their own performance, the functioning of the Board and their role on the Boards principal Committees.
Board Effectiveness Additionally, the Non-executive Directors met privately without Induction and training the Chairman or the Executive Directors present.
This meeting All new Directors and Committee members receive a full was chaired by the Senior Independent Director and included and tailored induction plan.
For Non-executive Directors a review of the performance of the Chairman, the relationship this commonly includes meetings with the heads of the between the Chairman and Chief Executive and the functioning divisions, key business units and other functions.
Induction for of the Board as a whole.
Executive Directors tends to be arranged in the course of their activities within the Group.
Background reading, including the The Chairman and Directors are satis ed that the Board Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Board Control operates effectively and that it receives valuable support from Manual and Model Code arrangements, is routinely provided its Committees.
The evaluation identi ed no material failings or to new Board and Committee members.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 117 Company Secretary and independent advice The Group provides an induction programme speci cally for new Audit Committee members and on-going training to Harry Baines enable them to carry out their duties.
The induction programme Company Secretary & Group Counsel covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference, expected time commitments and an introduction to key aspects Age 50.
Harry became Company Secretary of the Groups businesses, including the main business financial of HBOS in 2001, having joined Halifax in that capacity in 1999.
Since March 2006 he has dynamics and risks.
also been Group Counsel and a member of the HBOS Executive Committee.
He originally Attendance at meetings quali ed as a Solicitor and then held positions In 2007 the Committee met on seven occasions.
The in local government and private practice Committee invites the Chief Executive, senior executives before moving into industry in 1985. from the Finance and Risk functions, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the external auditors to attend all of its The Company Secretary & Group Counsel, Harry Baines, is meetings.
Other senior management attend as requested responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance by the Committee to enable it to discharge its duties.
matters and, in conjunction with the Chairman, for ensuring good information ows between the Board, its Committees, Non-executive Directors and senior executives.
Audit Committee Eligible to meetings attended attend The Company Secretary & Group Counsel is an HBOS Current Members employee but not a Director and the Non-executive Directors Anthony Hobson Chair 7 7 have access to his advice.
Additionally, if required in the Coline McConville 7 7 furtherance of their duties, Non-executive Directors along John E Mack from August 2007 2 2 with any other members of the Boards main Committees Kate Nealon 6 7 are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
John Ormerod 7 7 Former Member Board Committees David Shearer to April 2007 3 3 Audit Committee Membership Principal activities and duties The Audit Committees activities include receiving and challenging reports from senior management and both 117 the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in relation to the Groups external financial and regulatory reporting requirements: its risk and internal control environment and the Groups compliance with the Combined Code.
In particular, in 2007 the Audit Committee: considered and approved the accounting policies, principles Anthony Hobson Audit Committee Chair and practices as presented in the Groups accounts: The members of the Audit Committee are identi ed in the assessed signi cant accounting and reporting issues table in the next column.
The Committee comprises four and the key accounting and audit judgements: independent Non-executive Directors and one additional considered the external auditors annual Internal member, John Ormerod, who is neither a Director of Control Report and managements response: HBOS nor an employee of the Group.
John brings industry speci c expertise and additional experience, resource monitored the relationship of the Group with its regulators: and perspective to the Committees deliberations.
The Secretary to the Audit Committee is Lysanne Black, reviewed and advised the Board on the Groups Senior Deputy Company Secretary of HBOS.
interim and annual financial statements, the control of financial and business risks including whistleblowing The Audit Committees structure requires the inclusion of at arrangements, the nature and scope of the work least one nancially quali ed member.
The Board considers performed by internal and external auditors, the results that Anthony Hobson, a Chartered Accountant and until of this audit work and the responses of management: 2001 the Group Finance Director of Legal & General, has the signi cant, recent and relevant financial experience to satisfy this requirement.
In addition, John E Mack and John Ormerod also have recent and relevant financial experience.
118 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Retail Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Charles Dunstone Chair Peter Cummings Kate Nealon John Ormerod Oliver Page Corporate Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Sir Ron Garrick Chair Al-Noor Ramji Richard Cousins Philip Gore-Randall Insurance & Investment Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Audit Anthony Hobson Chair Committee Duncan Ferguson Lindsay Mackay Kate Nealon Malachy Smith International Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Coline McConville Chair Mike Christophers David Fisher Sir Ron Garrick Treasury & Asset Management Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External John E Mack Chair Mike Wooderson Scott Moeller External appointment, neither HBOS plc Director nor a Group employee, selected to enhance the independence of the RCC and to provide an additional resource to its deliberations.
assessed the resources, organisational structure and The Audit Committee also held private meetings on a regular operational effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function basis with the external auditors, the Head of Group Internal together with managements response to the findings: Audit, the Group Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and other key members of senior management as part of the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Committees work on the effectiveness of the Groups risk control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management policies and procedures.
The Group Risk Director management on an ongoing basis: and the Head of Group Internal Audit also have the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The made a recommendation to the Board for shareholder Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on the activities and approval in relation to the re-appointment of the external recommendations of the Audit Committee at the Board meeting auditors and considered the terms of their engagement: subsequent to each Committee meeting.
reviewed other services provided to the Group by the external John Ormerod auditors, and monitored their independence, concluding that Age 59.
John joined the Audit Committee of HBOS in 2005 and also serves on the Retail they had maintained their independence throughout the year: Risk Control Committee.
John is neither an HBOS Director nor a Group employee.
He reviewed management procedures for identifying is a Non-executive Director and member business risks and controlling their financial impact: of the Audit Committee of ITV.
He is also a preventing or detecting fraud: ensuring compliance with Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Computacenter, Gemalto and regulatory and legal requirements and monitoring the Misys where he is also Senior Independent operational effectiveness of policies and systems: and Director.
John is a Chartered Accountant and previously held senior positions with Arthur considered the activities of the divisional Risk Control Andersen and Deloitte.
Committees described on the following page.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 119 Risk Control Committees undertake, which includes work which will ultimately be subject The Audit Committee is supported by divisional Risk Control to external audit, internal audit services and secondments Committees RCCs, which act under delegated authority from to senior management positions in the Group that involve the Audit Committee, under detailed terms of reference.
It also includes the Groups policy on hiring divisional RCC reviews, on behalf of the Audit Committee, the former external audit staff.
For those services that are deemed adequacy of that divisions system of internal control and risk appropriate for the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out management, the signi cant risks facing that business and the approval process that must be followed for each type of how they are investigated and the techniques used to identify, assignment.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee must be assess and manage those risks particular to the business of the consulted regarding potential instructions in respect of fide ned division.
The RCCs also review divisional input to Group financial non-audit services with a value above fide ned limits and such reports.
At each of its meetings the Audit Committee reviews services must be subject to a competitive tender process.
the minutes and work of the RCCs.
Each year the Audit Committee establishes a limit on the fees The membership of the RCCs is shown in the table on the that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of nonprevious page.
Each RCC is chaired by a Non-executive audit services and monitors quarterly the amounts paid to the Director and comprises a minimum of one Non-executive auditors in this regard.
The external auditors also report regularly Director, an independent executive from another division to the Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply and additional members drawn from outside the Group with professional and regulatory requirements and current best who are chosen for the relevance of their skills.
practice in order to maintain their independence.
This includes the rotation of key members of the audit team.
Total auditor The Group provides an induction programme for new RCC remuneration analysed between audit and other services is members including meetings with key personnel in the relevant shown in Note 7 to the Financial Statements on page 171. divisions.
On an ongoing basis, meetings are arranged with the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Audit Nomination Committee Committee Chairman, Group Risk Director, Head of Group Membership Internal Audit and the external auditors.
Group Internal Audit Group Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee, divisional RCCs and senior executives by reviewing independently and objectively the effectiveness of the controls and risk 119 environment.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves the annual Internal Audit Plan and achievements against it, the Internal Audit Charter, the results of audits and other Sir Ron Garrick signi cant findings, the adequacy of managements response Nomination Committee Chair and the timeliness of resolution of recommendations and the adequacy of staff numbers, quali cations and experience.
The members of the Nomination Committee are identi ed in It seeks to ensure that the activities of the Group Internal the table below.
The Committees terms of reference require it Audit function are co-ordinated with the external auditors.
to have a majority of independent Non-executive Directors and The Audit Committee also approves the appointment, for membership to include the Chairman of the Company, the or removal, of the Head of Group Internal Audit.
Chief Executive, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and at least two further Non-executive Directors.
The Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee.
Case Study Auditing Internal Audit The Chief Executives membership of the Committee re ects its role in relation to Executive Directors and senior executive During the year the Audit Committee arranged for an independent review of the Group Internal Audit function.
The review was succession planning.
Harry Baines, Company Secretary & conducted by  and identi ed key strengths Group Counsel, is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
as well as certain areas for development.
For example, the value of rotating colleagues into and out of the Group Internal Audit function Attendance at meetings was highlighted.
The recommendations of the review, along with a In 2007 the Committee met on four occasions.
The Committee resultant action plan, were presented to the Audit Committee, which may invite other persons to attend meetings to assist in the concluded that the Group has a strong, independent and effective effective discharge of its duties.
Nomination Committee Eligible to External auditors meetings attended attend KPMG Audit Plc have served as external auditors since the Current Members formation of HBOS in 2001.
A full audit tender exercise was Sir Ron Garrick Chair 4 4 completed as recently as 2006.
Between audit tenders, an Richard Cousins from June 2007 2 2 assessment of the external auditors is undertaken.
Andy Hornby 4 4 Auditor independence and remuneration Karen Jones 3 4 Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards Coline McConville 4 4 in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the Dennis Stevenson 4 4 external auditors.
The Audit Committee has a comprehensive Former Member policy to regulate the use of auditors for non-audit services.
This Sir Brian Ivory to April 2007 1 1 policy sets out the nature of work the external auditors may not 120 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Principal activities and duties Other duties of the Committee include: 2007 was a busy year for the Committee, with a number ensuring that the process for making of appointments being made to the Board.
In the first appointments is formal, rigorous and fair: half of the year, Richard Cousins and John E Mack joined the Board as Non-executive Directors, while ensuring that Directors devote suf cient time to their role later in the year three Executive Directors Dan Watkins, addressing any concerns on an exceptional basis : Philip Gore-Randall and Mike Ellis were appointed.
keeping the composition of the Board and its Committees A consistent feature of the Committees approach to under review through a proper evaluation of the skills, succession planning for Non-executive Directors has been knowledge and experience of Directors and the needs to maintain an ongoing pool of appropriately quali ed and of the Group, the Board and its Committees to ensure skilled prospective candidates from which appointments best use is made of Non-executive Directors time may be made.
This pool is compiled and maintained with the and skills: and assistance of external search and recruitment consultants.
This approach is mirrored for external RCC appointments.
approving, under authority delegated by the Board, the appointment and where appropriate the removal of The value of this approach was demonstrated during independent trustees of the Groups pension schemes.
the year when, in advance of the retirement of two Nonexecutive Directors at the 2007 AGM, the Committee Remuneration Committee was able to match the pro le of skills required against Membership the pool of candidates and recommend two strong appointments in Richard Cousins and John E Mack.
Non-executive Directors are initially appointed to serve a three year term, with the expectation but no guarantee that in most cases the appointment will be extended for a second three year term.
A full review is carried out at the end of each term, and the extension of an individual appointment for up to a third three year term is possible.
Karen Jones Remuneration Committee Chair The Committee also recommended Executive Director appointments, caused by Phil Hodkinsons decision to stand down as Finance Director in order to pursue a range The members of the Remuneration Committee are identi ed in of other interests, particularly in the charitable sector.
The Committee must at all times comprise at Mike Ellis was identi ed as being uniquely quali ed to ful l least three Non-executive Directors.
Given their complementary this role given his expertise and knowledge of the Group.
roles, the Board believes that a signi cant degree of overlap In addition, the new role of Chief Operating Of cer was in the memberships of the Remuneration and Nomination established, enhancing the visibility and control of major Committees is desirable.
David Fisher, Director Group HR, Group-wide functions.
A key focus for the Committee is is Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
always to ensure that the Executive Committee develops Attendance at meetings in a way that re ects the needs of the business.
In 2007 the Committee met on seven occasions.
At the The Committee continuously reviews internal executive invitation of the Remuneration Committee Chair, the Groups talent which it benchmarks against appropriate peer group Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly attend Committee comparisons, as a key element of its role in relation to meetings to provide background and context on matters relating succession planning.
From time to time, potential external to the remuneration of other Executive Directors and other recruits are also considered.
In total, talent and succession data colleagues in the Group, but do not attend when their own is held in respect of approximately 3,500 colleagues across the remuneration or contractual terms are discussed no Director Group, including all relevant senior executives.
In this way the is involved in approving his or her own remuneration or Committee and, through the Committee, the Board, the Chief contractual terms.
Executive and senior executives monitor closely the nature, mix and availability of suitably experienced and appropriately Remuneration Committee Eligible to quali ed management, both within and outwith the Group: meetings attended attend create opportunities to challenge and develop individuals at Current Members senior executive level including inter-divisional moves : and can Karen Jones Chair from April 2007 7 7 act with con dence when, expectedly or unexpectedly, senior Richard Cousins from June 2007 2 3 roles become vacant, or other opportunities to strengthen the Sir Ron Garrick 7 7 senior executive team arise.
Coline McConville 7 7 Former Member Sir Brian Ivory Chair to April 2007 4 4 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 121 Principal activities and duties An annual audit of investor opinion is undertaken on behalf of Full details of remuneration policy and practice are in the Report the Board.
This takes the form of structured interviews with of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice on individual investors conducted by an independent external pages 122 to 145. adviser, the outcomes of which are fed back to and are considered by the Board.
The 2007 audit was conducted Below are details of the Committees work in 2007 and other with around 30 major investors in the UK, North America and key matters reserved to it: Europe.
Collectively these institutions represent a signi cant proportion of the institutional ownership of HBOS.
The majority considering and recommending to the Board the remuneration of interviewees had held meetings with HBOS management policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives over the previous 12 months, most of which were with and determining the speci c remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
the Chairman, Executive Directors and other direct executive reports to the Chief Executive the remuneration policy for The audit gathered opinion on strategy, financial and Non-executive Directors being set by the Board acting operational results including comments on individual through the Chairman and Executive Directors : divisions, management, corporate governance and investor communications.
The views of these investors were reported to approving the contractual terms for the Chairman and the the HBOS Board on a non-attributable basis, giving the Board Executive Directors: direct access to investor views on a wide range of performance metrics to help them to develop a balanced understanding operating and administering the Companys incentive of major shareholders.
The annual audit of investor opinion schemes for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and complements monthly reports to the Board on market and other senior executives, including delegation to a specially investor sentiment and opinion, thus ensuring that all Directors designated Incentive Sub-Committee: have a good understanding of the views of major shareholders.
approving the salary review for Executive Directors and Private shareholders certain senior executives: The Company Secretary, primarily through a Shareholder Services team, oversees communications with private determining contractual and discretionary payments to be shareholders.
made on the retirement, resignation and where appropriate dismissal of Executive Directors and other direct executive Each year shareholders receive the Annual Review & Summary reports to the Chief Executive: Financial Statement and in addition, if they choose, the Annual 121 Report and Accounts.
Shareholders can see up-to-date providing advice in relation to the fees payable to external information throughout the year on the Companys website, parties serving on Risk Control Committees and Nonwww.
This provides share price information, executive Directors of the Group but not of the Company financial results, copies of presentations to analysts and and the fees payable to pension scheme Trustees: and answers to frequently asked questions.
considering the policy and monitoring process for all Directors A shareholder opinion survey was conducted during 2007, and senior executives for holding shares in the Company.
The findings of this research are being used to improve the service offered Relations with Shareholders to shareholders.
Institutional shareholders The Investor Relations team has primary, day-to-day responsibility for managing communications with institutional Case Study AGM shareholders through a combination of brie ngs to analysts and institutional shareholders both at the interim and year The Companys AGM takes place at different UK locations each end results and throughout the year, site visits and individual year to maximise opportunities for the Companys shareholders to discussions between institutional shareholders and Board attend.
The AGM enables shareholders to hear about and question the Groups performance and the Directors stewardship of the members and key senior executives.
Shareholders who wish to raise a question can submit shareholders helps to ensure that the Companys strategy it beforehand, or can ask it at the AGM.
The Chairs of the Audit, is understood and that any queries or other issues are Remuneration and Nomination Committees are present at the AGM addressed in a constructive way.
along with other Directors to answer shareholders questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities and activities of their Committees.
In the last three years AGMs have been held in Edinburgh, Manchester and Brighton.
The 2008 AGM will be held in Glasgow.
