CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT British American Tobacco has long been committed retire as Finance Director at the conclusion of the Annual to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Ben Stevens has been Our corporate governance framework is directed towards appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2008 achieving our business objectives in a manner which is and will succeed Paul Rayner as Finance Director on responsible and in accordance with high standards of 30 April 2008. honesty, transparency and accountability.
These principles Meetings of the Board are reflected in our Standards of Business Conduct, which The Board held eight meetings in 2007 and is scheduled have been in place for many years and have recently to hold seven meetings in 2008. been updated in order to ensure that they remain at the forefront of best business practice.
Every Group company Among the key matters on which the Board alone may and every employee worldwide is expected to live up make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual to them.
In addition, the principles set out within our budget, dividends and major corporate activities.
It is also Statement of Business Principles are designed to help responsible for reviewing the Companys internal controls meet the expectations placed on us by our various and governance system and for approving our Standards stakeholders.
Both documents are available from the of Business Conduct.
In addition, the Board annually: Company Secretary and on bat.
approves the Annual Report and Accounts, recommends The principal governance rules applying to UK companies the final dividend and agrees the agenda for the Annual listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in General Meeting: the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted reviews the quarterly and interim results and declares by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the an interim dividend: Code.
As required by the Code, this Statement reports agrees succession plans and evaluates the Boards on how the Codes principles are applied by the Company performance over the preceding year: and and provides our formal report on compliance with the Codes provisions.
agrees the two year Company budget.
The Board The agenda for Board meetings is set by the Chairman The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders in consultation with the Deputy Chairman, the Chief for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic Executive and the Company Secretary.
In addition to direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the the Company Secretary, the General Counsel to the leadership necessary to enable the Groups business Company ordinarily attends all meetings of the Board.
objectives to be met within the framework of the internal Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet, controls described below, while also ensuring that the if required, prior to meetings of the Board without the Companys obligations to its shareholders and others Executive Directors present and also meet annually, led are met.
by the Deputy Chairman, without the Chairman present.
Directors All Directors are aware of their responsibility to take The Company currently has a Board of 12 Directors: the decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Chairman, three Executive Directors the Chief Executive, Chairman will always seek to obtain consensus at Board the Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will and eight Non-Executive Directors.
They are listed in the be taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns about Directors Report on page 48 and their details appear on the running of the Company or a proposed action which page 46. cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded in Rupert Pennant-Rea and Piet Beyers retired as Nonthe Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2007.
Executive Directors on 26 April 2007 and 30 June 2007 Management Board respectively, Christine Morin-Postel and Karen fide The Board delegates to the Management Board Segundo were appointed as Non-Executive Directors responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the on 1 October 2007, and Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy retired as Chief Operating Officer on 31 December 2007. which it sets, and for creating the conditions for their Nicandro Durante was appointed to the Board as Chief successful day-to-day operation.
The Management Board Operating Officer on 1 January 2008.
Paul Rayner will 76 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members Chairman and Chief Executive are the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, nine senior Group executives, whose names appear on with each having distinct and clearly defined page 47.
It held nine scheduled meetings in 2007 and is responsibilities.
scheduled to hold the same number of meetings in 2008.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, Members of the Management Board are also invited to ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for attend meetings of the Board from time to time, in ensuring that a clear business and financial strategy for particular when the Groups future strategy and annual the Group is formulated for recommendation to the budgets are under discussion.
An important aspect of this function is to ensure Board Committees effective communication with the Companys The Board has established four principal Board shareholders, and facilitate the productive contribution Committees, to which it has delegated certain of its of the Non-Executive Directors in particular.
They are the Audit Committee, the Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Each strategic and financial objectives.
He is also responsible has its own clear terms of reference, which are available for stewardship of the Groups assets and, jointly with from the Company Secretary and on bat.
The roles the Chairman, representation of the Group externally.
and membership of these Committees are described in more detail where appropriate below.
Board balance and independence The Board considers that seven of the eight Non-Executive Board and Committee meetings held in 2007 Directors are independent.
Thys Visser is presumed not The following table shows the total number of Board to be independent because of the shareholding that he and Committee meetings held in 2007 and the number represents.
Accordingly, he does not sit on the Audit or attended by their respective members.
Remuneration Committees, both of which comprise solely Board Audit Nominations Remuneration CSR independent Non-Executive Directors.
Number held 8 5 6 6 2 Kenneth Clarke was appointed to the Board on 28 April Number attended 1998 and so has served on the Board for over nine years.
J P du Plessis 8 6 The Board recognises that length of service can impact K H Clarke 7 5 5 5 2 on the independence of a Non-Executive Director and P N Adams 8 has therefore kept his position under careful review.
It is P A Rayner 8 satisfied, in light of his continuing valuable contributions A Monteiro fide Castro 8 to the Board and its Committees, that he has remained 1 P E Beyers 3 2 0 independent throughout the period under review.
He will R E Lerwill 7 5 5 5 2 retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys A M Llopis 7 4 5 4 2 Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008.
1 C Morin-Postel 32 1 2 1 1 In addition to being the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, R L Pennant-Rea 22 2 2 1 Kenneth Clarke is the Senior Independent Director.
He is A Ruys 7 5 6 6 2 available should occasion arise where there is a need to Sir Nicholas Scheele 8 5 6 6 2 1 convey concerns to the Main Board other than through K fide Segundo 22 0 1 1 the Chairman or Chief Executive.
He and the other NonM H Visser 7 4 1 Executive Directors remain available to meet with major Indicates not a member of that Committee.
Notes: investors in order to understand their views and concerns.
1 Rupert Pennant-Rea retired from the Board on 26 April 2007: Piet Beyers On his retirement, Sir Nicholas Scheele will assume the retired from the Board on 30 June 2007.
Christine Morin-Postel and Karen fide Segundo were appointed to the Board and its four Committees with role of Senior Independent Director and the position of effect from 1 October 2007.
2 Every Director withdrew from any meeting at which his or her own position was being considered.
3 All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2007 with the exception of Anthony Ruys, who was unable to attend due to a conflicting engagement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 77 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Appointments to the Board relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 during The Board has established the Nominations Committee 2007, an appointment of a Non-Executive Director made to make recommendations on suitable candidates for by the Company from 1 October 2007 is made on the appointment to the Board and for promotion to the basis of a two year term, such appointment being subject Management Board, ensuring that both Boards have the to approval by shareholders in accordance with the terms appropriate balance of expertise and ability.
It is chaired of the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association by Jan du Plessis and its remaining membership comprises relating to the rotation of Directors.
all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive There is a general assumption on the part of the Board and Management Board Director responsible for Human that Non-Executive Directors will not normally be invited Resources regularly attend meetings by invitation but are to stand for reappointment after serving nine years.
Committee reviews forthcoming retirements at least once The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring a year and considers the need to identify candidates to fill that the procedure for appointing new Directors is vacancies for non-executive positions on the Board.
This rigorous and transparent and that appointments are process includes an evaluation of the skills and experience made on merit and against objective criteria for the to be looked for in those candidates to ensure continuing purpose.
The selection process will generally involve Board balance.
benchmarking and interviews with a selection of The Nominations Committee has made recommendations candidates, using where appropriate the services to the Board as to the Directors who are retiring and of executive search firms specialising in board level being put forward for reappointment at the Annual recruitment.
This process was followed in connection General Meeting on 30 April 2008. with the appointments to the Board of Christine Information and professional development Morin-Postel and Karen fide Segundo in October 2007 Directors receive induction on joining the Board, which and Nicandro Durante in January 2008. consists of at least two days briefings on all areas of the Directors are submitted for reappointment at regular Companys business.
After a period on the Board, they are intervals by application of the Companys Articles of given an opportunity to review the induction programme Association.
These require that at each Annual General and raise questions on any areas in respect of which they Meeting: 1 not less than one-third of the Directors would like further information.
In addition, they have the who are subject to retirement by rotation must retire: opportunity to update their skills and knowledge on a and 2 any Director has to retire who was not appointed regular basis, for example through further briefings on the at either of the two previous Annual General Meetings business and by visits to Company sites.
They also make and who has served as a Director for more than two years use of the opportunity to attend meetings of the Groups since appointment or last reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts The Board and its Committees receive high quality, up-towith the Company but instead have letters of date information for review in good time ahead of each appointment.
For Non-Executive Directors appointed meeting, and the Company Secretary, under the direction before 1 October 2007, the terms of appointment of of the Chairman, ensures good information flows within each such Director provide that he or she is appointed the Board and its Committees and between the Nonfor a specified term, being an initial period to the next Executive Directors and senior management.
She is also Annual General Meeting after appointment and, subject responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, to reappointment at that meeting, for a further period on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal ending at the Annual General Meeting held three years of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to During 2007, the Board was fully briefed on the practical endorsement by the Board and the approval of implications for directors of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders.
Following the implementation of the 78 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 including in particular the codification of directors duties proposed for reappointment continues to be effective and which came into effect in October 2007.
This included that they continue to show commitment to their role.
a dedicated presentation covering relevant aspects of the Remuneration legislation, together with a briefing pack and supporting It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to materials.
determine the framework and policy on terms of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the engagement including remuneration of the Chairman, Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them Executive Directors and members of the Management to take independent professional advice at the Companys Board, and the specific remuneration of each Executive expense should this be required.
The Company has Director and Management Board member including arranged appropriate insurance to provide cover in the entitlements under share incentive schemes and pension event of legal action against its Directors.
schemes and any compensation payments.
Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board Evaluation of Board performance on the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief The Board conducts a critical evaluation of its activities Executive.
A questionnaire-based peer review of the performance of the Chairman, the Executive The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Kenneth Directors, the Non-Executive Directors, the Board and its Clarke and its members are Robert Lerwill, Ana Maria committees is conducted by the Company Secretary.
The Llopis, Christine Morin-Postel, Anthony Ruys, Sir Nicholas results of the review of the Committees and the Board are Scheele and Karen fide Segundo.
On Kenneth Clarkes discussed with the Chairman and presented to the Board.
retirement from the Board, Anthony Ruys will assume Chairmanship of the Committee.
The Chairman, Chief The results of the review of individual performance are Executive and Management Board Director responsible raised by the Chairman with each individual Director, as for Human Resources regularly attend meetings by appropriate.
The results of the review of the Chairmans invitation but are not members.
performance are discussed by the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present and feedback is given by Details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the the Senior Independent Director on a one-to-one basis.
The Chairman also discusses the effectiveness and Accountability and audit performance of Directors immediately before they Financial reporting make themselves available for reappointment.
The The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to Remuneration Committee evaluates the effectiveness present a balanced and understandable assessment of of the Chairman and the Chief Executive annually.
the Companys position and prospects in the Directors The process in 2007 confirmed that all Directors continue Report and Accounts and the Operating and Financial to make an effective contribution to the Board and that Review and in interim reports, reports to regulators the Board and its Committees continue to operate and price-sensitive announcements.
A summary of the effectively in discharging their obligations and meeting Directors responsibilities for the financial statements and defined objectives.
The Committees were rated highly their statement concerning relevant audit information and the Board expressed particular appreciation for the is included in the Directors Report on pages 49 and 50. regional audit committee framework which allows broad The Directors statement that it is appropriate to continue access to the business.
It was commented that the to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the balance of expertise on the Board should continue to be accounts is set out in the Directors Report on page 50. kept under review, taking into account the geographical Audit Committee spread of the Groups business.
The Boards obligation to establish formal and transparent The Notice for this years Annual General Meeting arrangements for considering how it should apply confirms that the performance of the Directors being financial reporting and internal control principles, and Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 79 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the corporate audit committee.
The specific items considered Companys external auditors,  by the Audit Committee during 2007 included: LLP, is met through the Audit Committee.
compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct: The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Lerwill and compliance with records management procedures: comprises six other independent Non-Executive Directors Kenneth Clarke, Ana Maria Llopis, Christine Morina revised audit committee framework: Postel, Anthony Ruys, Sir Nicholas Scheele and Karen fide the updated Standards of Business Conduct: Segundo.
Robert Lerwill has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors the main risks and controls of the Groups treasury regularly attend meetings of the Committee by invitation operations: and but are not members.
The Committees meetings are also the threat to the Groups business posed by illicit trade regularly attended by the Head of Audit and Business Risk, and the specific controls in place to address such risks.
the General Counsel to the Company and a representative of the external auditors.
As a matter of best practice, the It has satisfied itself by means of these steps that proper Committee meets alone with the external auditors at the and satisfactory internal controls remain in place to end of its meetings.
identify and contain business risks, and that the Companys business, and that of its subsidiaries, is being The Committee is authorised by the Board to review any conducted in a proper and economically sound manner.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance The Audit Committee made recommendations to at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of the Board on the reappointment, for approval by management, and all employees are expected to cooperate shareholders, of the Companys external auditors and with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee approved their fees and terms of engagement.
The is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys Committee has an established policy on the appointment expense, outside legal or other independent professional of the auditors to perform non-audit services for the advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant Group over and above the external audit as further experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
detailed in its terms of reference, available on bat.
com and keeps this issue under continual review.
It remains Activities of the Audit Committee in 2007 confident that the objectivity and independence of the The Audit Committee met five times during 2007, auditors are not in any way impaired by reason of this including immediately before the Companys full year further work.
Moreover, the Committee is satisfied that results were published.
It continued to monitor the such work is best handled by them, either because of integrity of the Companys financial statements and all their knowledge of the Group or because they have been formal announcements concerning the Companys awarded it through a competitive tendering process.
financial performance, to review significant financial A breakdown of non-audit fees charged by the auditors reporting judgements contained in them, and to keep is disclosed on page 102 in note 3 d. under review the consistency of accounting policies The Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures applied across the Group.
enable staff, in confidence, to raise concerns about During the course of the year, the Committee met regularly possible improprieties in financial and other matters with management and with the internal and external and to do so without fear of reprisal, provided that such auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls concerns are not raised in bad faith.
Details of this policy and business risk management, and received reports from are set out in the Companys Standards of Business the Head of Audit and Business Risk, the Head of Group Conduct.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures Security and the Groups regional audit committees and throughout the Group and at the Groups London 80 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 headquarters, which provide staff with additional The audit committee framework is regularly reviewed guidance and enable them to report matters in a by the Board and was revised during the course of 2007 language with which they are comfortable.
The Audit to ensure that it remains aligned with the Groups Committee remains satisfied that the policy and the business structure.
The revised framework reflects the procedures in place incorporate arrangements for the continuing migration of many of the processes and proportionate and independent investigation of matters supporting control systems above the Groups individual raised and for the appropriate follow-up action.
markets and is directed towards ensuring that these processes and control systems remain subject to adequate Internal control review from an internal control and business risk The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal perspective.
In relation to each level of audit committee, control for the Company and its subsidiaries and for the Groups requirements on constitution, membership reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
It carries out and procedures have been developed to reflect both such a review annually, covering all material controls existing practice within the Group and best practice including financial, operational and compliance generally in the field of corporate governance.
controls and risk management systems, and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
The Groups regional audit committees which are all chaired by an Executive Director focus on risks and the Overview control environment within each region and are in turn The Company maintains a sound system of internal supported by end market or area audit committees.
The control with a view to safeguarding shareholders corporate audit committee comprises members of the investment and the Companys assets.
It is designed to Management Board and it focuses on the risks and the identify, evaluate and manage risks that may impede the control environment within the Groups operations which achievement of the Companys business objectives rather do not fall under the responsibility of the regional, area than to eliminate these risks and can therefore provide and local audit committees, for example central functions, only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material global programmes and above-region projects.
A description of the key risk factors reviews conducted by the regional audit committees that may affect the Groups business is provided in the and the corporate audit committee include consideration Operating and Financial Review on pages 28 to 31. of the effectiveness of the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks of the business and The main features of the risk management processes the assessments of internal control and business risks and system of internal control operated within the completed by operating companies.
The relevant external Group are identified below.
They do not cover the and internal auditors regularly attend meetings of all audit Groups associate undertakings.
Save to the extent committees and have private audiences with members of indicated in relation to developments which occurred the audit committees at least once each year.
In addition, during the year, they have been in place throughout central, regional and individual market management, the year under review and up to date.
along with internal audit, supports the Board in its role Audit committee framework of ensuring a sound control environment.
The Group uses audit committees at central, regional, Risk management and internal control processes area and individual market levels to support the Audit It is the responsibility of each Group company to manage Committee in monitoring risks and control.
This its risks both financial and non-financial and they must framework provides a continuing process for identifying, maintain a business risk register to identify, assess and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by monitor the key risks which they face.
They are required the Company and its subsidiaries.
It is designed to capture regularly to review and update the register.
The Groups and evaluate failings and weaknesses and to ensure that internal audit function provides advice and guidance appropriate remedial action is taken where necessary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 81 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk at the year end.
The Board, with advice from its Audit management and control systems.
Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the Group companies and other business units are required period since 1 January 2007.
No significant failings or at least annually to complete a checklist of the key weaknesses were identified and the Board is satisfied controls which they are expected to have in place.
Its that, where specific areas for improvement have been purpose is to enable them to self-assess their internal identified, processes are in place to ensure that the control environment, assist them in identifying any necessary remedial action is taken and that progress controls which may require strengthening and support is monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system them in implementing and monitoring action plans to of internal control is in accordance with the Guidance.
Relations with shareholders The Groups internal audit function is responsible for The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders carrying out audit checks on Group companies and other directed towards ensuring a mutual understanding business units, and does so against an audit plan presented of objectives.
Its primary contact with shareholders annually to the Audit Committee, which focuses in is through the Chief Executive and Finance Director, but particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
the Chairman and Chief Operating Officer also maintain Annual processes contact with major shareholders in order to understand Annually, at the year end, each operating company within their issues and concerns.
Where appropriate, major the Group and each department within the Groups UK institutional shareholders are consulted on significant headquarters is required to: changes to the structure of the Directors remuneration.
review its system of internal control, confirm whether it At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations remains effective and report on any material weaknesses presents a report to the Board on the issues considered and the action being taken to address them: and at meetings between the Company and institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives regular review and confirm compliance with the Standards reports on developments concerning the holdings of of Business Conduct and identify any material instances the Companys main institutional shareholders.
of non-compliance or conflicts of interest identified.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal opportunity The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant for the Board to meet a wide range of investors and for regional audit committee or to the corporate audit the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and committee and, where appropriate, to the Boards Audit receive questions from its owners, the shareholders.
At the Committee to ensure that appropriate remedial action Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008, the Company has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
will provide for the vote on each resolution to be by poll, using its Registrars electronic voting system, rather than Review by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing including those cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the application of the Codes principles and compliance the provisional voting results at the Meeting, and the final with the Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
results are announced on the same day through the The current version of the Turnbull Guidance the Regulatory News Service and on bat.
Guidance applies to listed companies for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee The processes described above, and the reports that they supports the Companys commitment to social and give rise to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to environmental issues.
It is chaired by Kenneth Clarke, its monitor the internal control framework on a continuing other members being all of the Non-Executive Directors, basis throughout the year and to review its effectiveness 82 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 and Karen fide Segundo will chair the Committee following STOXX Sustainability Index for the sixth year running.
Kenneth Clarkes retirement from the Board.
The British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad was also Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Management included in the 2007 DJSI World.
British American Board Director responsible for Corporate and Regulatory Tobacco was placed in the second highest Gold Affairs regularly attend meetings by invitation but are Band in the Corporate Responsibility Index 2006 not members.
The Committees role is to help identify run by Business in the Community, the 700 member and assess, with management, those significant social, organisation established in the UK to help business environmental and reputational risks that might impair improve its positive impact on society.
The Company the Companys strategic objective to be recognised was rated first in its sector and included in the highest as a responsible company in a controversial industry.
Platinum Band for environmental performance in The Committee also evaluates the adequacy of the the Business in the Environment Index for 2006.
Companys policies in this area and makes American Depositary Receipts recommendations for change.
The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its The Companys Social Reports have detailed the American Depositary Receipts ADRs on the American Companys social, ethical and environmental performance Stock Exchange.
None of its securities are listed on any and performance against commitments each year since United States securities exchange or registered pursuant the first Social Report in 2002.
In 2006, the Company to the securities laws of the United States.
As a result, issued a performance summary Social Reporting: 2006 the Company is subject to neither the American Stock Exchange listing standards nor the corporate governance progress and review, rather than publishing a full Social rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, Report, in anticipation of the transition to a Sustainability the Board has chosen, in the interests of good Report later this year.
Details of the Companys governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining performance on social, ethical and environmental the principal differences and common areas between the issues can be found on bat.
Companys corporate governance practices as explained Group companies in 32 countries are engaged in social above and those that would be required if the Company reporting and others covering 10 countries are holding were subject to those rules.
The updated statement will dialogue and reporting on a key issue.
British American be available on the corporate governance section of Tobaccos first EU Social Report was published in 2007 bat.
com from the date of publication of the Directors and reflects dialogues with senior EU-level stakeholders Report and Accounts.
All of the Groups Social Reports continue Compliance to be measured, through rigorous independent review, The Board considers that this Statement on governance against the AA1000 Standard and the latest AA1000 provides the information necessary to enable shareholders Assurance Standard is being applied.
Engagement with to evaluate how the Principles of the Code have been key stakeholders is a major requirement of the AA1000 applied.
The Board considers that the Company has Standard, and Group companies continue to be very complied with the Provisions of the Code throughout active in this area.
the year and that it has therefore satisfied its obligations The principles of CSR continue to be strongly embedded under the Code.
in the Group, with the governance dimension being In the interests of further transparency, we have again provided by local and regional CSR committees, overseen prepared a report which summarises the matters by the CSR Committee.
The focus for CSR governance addressed in this Statement, as appropriate, by reference this year will be to review and improve the governance to each Principle and Provision of the Code.
The updated process, including a review of the CSR key control report will be available on the corporate governance checklist, first used in 2006. section of bat.
com from the date of publication of the The Company has been included in both the Dow Jones Directors Report and Accounts.
Sustainability World Index DJSI World and the Dow Jones Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 83 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
