Governance ICAP plc 39 Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance statement Corporate governance statement Duncan Goldie-Morrison is the senior independent director and The following statement, together with the remuneration report, is an additional contact point for shareholders if the normal contact details how the Company has applied the principles set out in the channels are inappropriate.
With the exception of the Chairman, all the Combined Code and includes additional disclosures, where appropriate.
non-executive directors are independent of management and considered The directors believe that during the year they have fully complied with by the board to be free from any business or other relationships which the provisions of the Combined Code.
could interfere with the exercise of their independence.
Profiles of each of the directors and details of their membership of board committees Directors are given on pages 34 and 35.
The Company is headed by an experienced board of directors consisting Board nominations are recommended to the board by the nomination of a non-executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, three committee under its terms of reference.
further executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The board meets at least six times a year, with three meetings being held overseas.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys articles of In addition, during the year the board held a separate meeting which association all directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders focused solely on corporate strategy.
at the first opportunity following their appointment and, subsequently, must seek re-election at least once every three years.
The board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and approval which include, but are not limited to: New directors to the board are provided with appropriate training and briefings which take into account their individual qualifications and the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: experience.
All directors receive, during their term of office, regular acquisitions, disposals and major investments: briefings on changes and developments in the Groups business and legislative and regulatory changes which are relevant to the Group.
the Groups annual and half-yearly reports: During the year the board evaluated its performance and that of its any significant change in accounting policies or practices: committees and individual directors.
This was done by way of a any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend: questionnaire which was completed by each director to evaluate effectiveness and accountability.
The collective results were then the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: discussed by the board with actions agreed.
The board has considered any changes to the Companys capital structure or its status and agreed that each of Nicholas Cosh, Duncan Goldie-Morrison and as a listed company: James McNulty, who are standing for re-election at the annual general meeting, continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate risk management strategy: and commitment to his role.
The board considered with Nicholas Cosh treasury policy.
excusing himself from such discussions the nomination for the re-election of Nicholas Cosh with particular rigour, as he had served as Information is provided in a timely and regular manner to directors for all a director for six years, and was satisfied that his re-appointment as a meetings to enable them to exercise their judgement in the discharge of director for a further term was warranted having regard to his ongoing their duties.
In addition senior executives below board level attend certain contribution and valuable experience on the board.
The Chairmans board meetings and make presentations on the results and strategies performance was evaluated by the non-executive directors led by the of their businesses.
senior independent director who then provided the Chairman with the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company results of this evaluation.
Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and The board manages the Group through board meetings and a number applicable rules are observed.
There is a procedure to enable the directors of committees, each of which has detailed terms of reference and to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their duties meets regularly.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration at the Companys expense.
This facility extends to the members of audit, and nomination committees are available on the Groups website, remuneration and nomination committees.
The Company maintains liability www.
The minutes of each of the committees are made insurance for its directors and officers.
available to all directors and the board receives an update from each There is a clear division of the roles and the responsibilities of the of the committees chairman.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
Governance ICAP plc 40 Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance statement continued Board and committee attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by directors at those meetings: Finance committee previously Newbusiness Audit Remuneration Nomination Grouprisk treasury approvals Board committee committee committee committee committee committee Total number of meetings in the financial year 2006 07 6 4 5 1 6 8 4 Current directors Charles Gregson 6 6 1 1 Michael Spencer 6 6 1 1 Matthew Lester appointed 6 September 2006 4 4 3 3 4 4 3 3 Stephen McDermott 6 6 6 6 1 1 Mark Yallop 6 6 6 6 8 8 4 4 Nicholas Cosh 6 6 4 4 5 5 1 1 Duncan Goldie-Morrison 5 6 4 4 4 5 1 1 James McNulty 5 6 5 5 1 1 William Nabarro 6 6 4 4 4 5 1 1 Past directors David Gelber resigned 12 July 2006 1 1 1 3 Jim Pettigrew resigned 2 June 2006 1 1 1 2 2 2 Director absences from meetings were the result of unavoidable diary clashes and were agreed with the Chairman in advance.
Audit committee assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the The committee comprises three independent non-executive directors.
external auditors: The directors who served on the committee during the year are: developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the Nicholas Cosh FCA chairman external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: Duncan Goldie-Morrison making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and William Nabarro removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and The audit committee is responsible for: terms of engagement: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: audit function: and reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise management systems: concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Governance ICAP plc 41 Annual Report 2007 Appointments to the committee are made by the board on the During the financial year, the committee reviewed the effectiveness of recommendation of the Groups nomination committee following the external audit process and the qualification, expertise and resources consultation with the chairman of the audit committee.
The committee also reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2006 07 audit The board has satisfied itself that the chairman of the audit committee, and has recommended to the board that it proposes to shareholders that and the committee collectively, possess recent and relevant financial  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external experience to enable the committee to function effectively and to auditors.
The committee also monitored the balance of audit and discharge its responsibilities.
non-audit fees to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the The committee meets four times a year with meetings coinciding with external auditors is maintained.
During the year, the audit committee the start of the external audit cycle, the financial year end and the reviewed the tender process which was in place for the provision publication of the annual and half-yearly reports.
In attendance at such of external advice.
 LLP was the main provider meetings, by invitation only, are the Chairman, Group Chief Operating but their work was limited to specific areas and the services of other Officer, Group Finance Director, Ernst & Young as internal auditor and firms used on an ongoing basis.
Any proposed non-audit assignments, representatives from the external auditors.
The chairman of the audit with fees in excess of 50,000, are subject to the committees prior committee also maintains contact with those attendees throughout review and approval.
As part of its consideration of the annual financial the year.
At the end of each committee meeting representatives from statements the committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors Ernst & Young as internal auditor and the external auditors are given have remained independent of the Group during the financial year and the opportunity to raise any issues, in private, without management continue to do so to the date of this report.
The committee also received being present.
details from  LLP of its own independence procedures and confirmation that, in its opinion, it remained independent The chairman of the audit committee reports on the committees throughout the year.
deliberations and any significant issues that may have arisen to the board meeting following each meeting of the committee.
Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls with the board being responsible for reviewing In the 2006 07 financial year, the committee reviewed the Groups its effectiveness.
To assist the board in this duty, the committee annual and interim financial statements, prior to their approval reviews the Groups internal financial controls and risk management by the board.
In doing so, it ensured that the accounting policies adopted, systems.
Details of the steps taken by the committee to review the the judgements and disclosures made in the preparation of those effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are set out in financial statements, were the most appropriate to the circumstances the business review.
The committee has reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements within In the course of the year the committee was kept up to date on the Group and is satisfied that such arrangements are still appropriate.
developments in accounting standards and their likely impact on the Groups financial statements.
During the year, the committee received regular reports on the work of the outsourced internal audit department and reviewed the authority, scope of work, resources and effectiveness of the function.
The Ernst & Young representative has direct access to the audit committee and its chairman.
The committee also considered the external auditors Group management letter on accounting procedures and systems of internal financial control.
Governance ICAP plc 42 Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance statement continued Remuneration committee New business approvals committee The remuneration report is set out on pages 43 to 50.
The committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer and includes the Group Finance Director.
Nomination committee The committee is responsible for reviewing all new business proposals The committee comprises the chairman, four non-executive directors to ensure that a proper consideration of risk has been undertaken and that and one executive director: proposals meet the strategic direction and financial criteria set out in the William Nabarro chairman new business approvals guidelines.
The committee also regularly reviews Nicholas Cosh the performance of all new business against the new business proposal.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison Charles Gregson Relations and dialogue with shareholders James McNulty The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the Michael Spencer performance and activities of the Group and is very much aware of the importance of maintaining good relations and communications with all The committee recommends to the board appointments for the role of its shareholders.
The annual and interim financial statements and Stock Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, executive and non-executive Exchange announcements are posted on the investor relations section directors.
In September 2006, following an external candidate search, of the Groups website, www.
com, as soon as they are released Matthew Lester was appointed Group Finance Director.
and major shareholder and analysts presentations are also available.
No other appointments have been made during the year.
The board recognises that the annual general meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive information on the During the year, in accordance with previous announcements, Groups business performance and to question senior management Jim Pettigrew and David Gelber resigned as directors on 2 June 2006 on any business matters.
In 2006 all the directors attended the and 12 July 2006 respectively.
There are three further board committees which report directly to The Group has an established programme of communication with its the board of the Company, but whose membership does not include institutional investors and analysts.
At the time of the announcement of non-executive directors.
the final and interim results, presentations are made to analysts, the press and institutional investors.
In addition, there are regular meetings during Group risk committee the year subject to relevant regulatory constraints with analysts and The committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer and investors to update them on developments in the Groups strategy includes the Group Finance Director.
The committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk management framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and policies are Accountability and audit appropriate to the activities of the Group.
The committee reviews The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Groups risk exposures and ensures adherence to Group risk the Groups financial statements is set out in the directors report policy particularly in relation to credit, market and operational risk.
on page 38 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is detailed on page 51.
It is the boards responsibility to determine the Groups risk appetite and identify, monitor and assess the significant risks the Group may be exposed to.
The committee is responsible for developing procedures for By order of the board managing risk in line with board approved polices and limits.
This includes establishing and maintaining an adequate, sound and appropriate internal Deborah Abrehart control structure, evaluating its effectiveness and promptly identifying Group Company Secretary material weaknesses and taking corrective steps.
Finance committee The committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and includes the Group Chief Operating Officer.
The committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the board in relation to matters affecting the structure, financing, tax and treasury aspects of the Group and to ensure compliance with board approved financing, treasury and tax policies.
Detailed information on risk management and financial risk management is set out on pages 22 to 26 of the business review.
