IG Group Holdings plc 27 Corporate Governance Report and Financial Statements 2007 Corporate Governance The board considers that the three independent directors Statement by the directors in are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry compliance with the Combined Code significant weight in the boards decision making and the board considers that its current composition is appropriate.
The board is satisfied that the Group complied with the The board is not currently intending to recruit additional provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance, non-executives in order to comply with paragraph A.
3.2 of the issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, for the Combined Code.
Brief biographies of the directors appear on whole year, with the following exceptions: pages 16 and 17.
The Group was not compliant with paragraph A.
2.1 of the Combined Code requires that the throughout the year: and remuneration committee comprise only independent nonThe Group was not compliant with paragraph B.
2.1 until executive directors and in addition, the Chairman may be a 4 December 2006. member of, but not chair, the committee if he was considered to be independent on appointment as Chairman.
On 4 There were changes to the composition of the board following December 2006 Jonathan Davie stepped down as chairman of the appointment of Tim Howkins as Chief Executive on 2 the remuneration committee and Roger Yates was appointed October 2006.
On the same date Steve Clutton was appointed as its chairman.
Finance Director and Nat Le Roux agreed to continue to serve on the board as non-executive Deputy Chairman.
The board The workings of the board and its recognises that whilst the former Chief Executive will be considered a non-independent director, it has taken the view committees that his 15 years experience with the Group and the value he brings as an advisor justifies his position on the board and is in The board the best interests of the Group and the shareholders.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been Paragraph A.
3.2 of the Combined Code requires that at least approved by the board.
half of the board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
The board is comprised of four The board is responsible to shareholders for the proper executive directors and four non-executive directors excluding management of the Group.
A statement of the directors the Deputy Chairman and the Chairman.
One of the nonresponsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out executive directors, Robert Lucas, is considered to be a nonon page 45 and a statement regarding the use of the going independent non-executive director as he represents funds concern basis in preparing these financial statements is also managed or advised by CVC Capital Partners Limited and given on page 44. associates CVC a substantial shareholder, holding 7.7% of the ordinary share capital of the company at 31 May 2007 2006 11.5%.
IG Group Holdings plc 28 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Corporate Governance The appointment and removal of the Company secretary is The workings of the board and its a matter for the board as a whole.
Guy Abbi was appointed committees continued Company secretary with effect from 11 January 2007.
Andrew MacKay continues to serve as an executive director.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it.
These include: The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all directors and staff.
Setting Group strategy The board meets regularly: at least five times a year.
In addition Approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital to its regular meetings the board meets when necessary expenditure to discuss strategic opportunities such as acquisitions.
The Approval of extension of the Groups activities into new non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to business or geographic areas ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors Approving annual budgets are appropriate and fully considered.
To enable the board to Reviewing operational and financial performance discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed to all directors Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk in advance of board meetings and financial information is management distributed monthly.
The chairman ensures that the directors Approving board, board committee and Company secretarial take independent professional advice as required.
appointments Ensuring adequate succession planning for the board and The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the senior management Groups affairs: Defining and setting board committee terms of reference Remuneration committee Approving policies relating to directors remuneration and The remuneration committee is chaired by Roger Yates.
the severance of directors contracts It makes recommendations to the board, within agreed Approving any changes to the Groups risk management terms of reference, on an overall remuneration package for policy which materially increases the risk profile of the Group executive directors in order to attract, retain and motivate high Receiving reports on the views of the Companys quality directors capable of achieving the Groups objectives.
shareholders Consideration is given to pay and employment policies elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual Matters not specifically reserved to the board are delegated to salary increases.
The committee determines the contract terms, the executive directors.
These include: remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors, including performance related bonus schemes, The development and recommendation of strategic plans for pension rights, compensation payments and contingent share the Group awards.
The committee approves all share-based awards under Implementation of the strategies of the Group the Groups LTIP and SIP schemes.
The board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Day to day monitoring of the operating and financial results of the Group Audit committee Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human The audit committee is chaired by Martin Jackson, who has resources recent and relevant financial experience.
It meets not less Developing and implementing risk management systems, than three times annually.
The committee provides a forum policies and procedures for reporting by the Groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings may also be attended for all or part of the meetings, All directors have access to the advice and services of the by invitation, by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company secretary, who is responsible to the board for head of internal audit, the compliance officer, and the external ensuring that board procedures are followed and that auditors.
applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Directors receive appropriate training as necessary when they are appointed.
Training on the duties and responsibilities of directors is provided by the Groups legal advisers.
IG Group Holdings plc 29 Corporate Governance Report and Financial Statements 2007 The workings of the board and its committees continued The terms of reference set out the roles, responsibilities and objectives of the audit committee.
The committees key activities include selecting appropriate accounting policies, approving significant accounting judgements and estimates, monitoring the integrity of the half year interim report and annual financial statements before their submission to the board and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems including compliance with regulatory requirements.
The audit committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit and advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, and discusses the nature, scope and results of their work.
The audit committee keeps under review the level of fees and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and regularly monitors the non-audit services being provided.
During the year the committee adopted a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
This policy sets out types of assignment which the auditors are precluded from undertaking and those which they may undertake.
A copy of the policy is available on the Group website in the policies section.
It also sets limits for the levels of fees which may be paid to the external auditors without prior approval of the audit committee or, in the cases of certain types of assignment, without a competitive tendering process.
The external auditors provide an annual report to the audit committee confirming the procedures they have undertaken to confirm their independence.
The committee undertakes an annual review of the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters whistle blowing.
This review concluded that these arrangements were satisfactory.
Nomination committee The nomination committee considers appointments to the board and meets as necessary.
The nomination committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill board vacancies and for making recommendations on board composition and balance.
The committee leads the process for making appointments to the board or where the appointee is likely to become a board member.
The committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors.
The committee also ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board, and to other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments is vested in the Chief Executive.
During the year the committee instructed external search consultants to undertake a search for a new Finance Director, following the decision that the existing Finance Director, Tim Howkins, would succeed Nat le Roux as Chief Executive.
As a result, Steve Clutton was appointed as Finance Director with effect from 2 October 2006.
The membership of these committees was as follows: Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Martin Jackson chair Roger Yates chair Jonathan Davie chair Sir Alan Budd Martin Jackson Martin Jackson Roger Yates Sir Alan Budd Sir Alan Budd Jonathan Davie Roger Yates Chairman until 4 December 2006 Chairman from 4 December 2006 Copies of the terms of reference of these committees can be obtained from the Company secretary on request and are available on the Groups investor relations website.
IG Group Holdings plc 30 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Corporate Governance The workings of the board and its Internal control committees continued The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for risk management and are responsible for Relations with shareholders the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their The board recognises the importance of communications with effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than shareholders.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business Report and Operating and Financial Review include a detailed strategies, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, review of the business and future developments.
There is assurance against material misstatement or loss.
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups presentations by management around the time of the systems of internal control, covering all key controls, including Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results financial, operational and compliance controls and risk and at the half year.
These presentations are made available management, as operated during the year.
from the Groups investor relations website at www.
com which also provides information to An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Feedback is Turnbull committee on internal control, has been established provided to the board following these investor presentations of for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks any views or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual The board uses the annual general meeting to communicate report and financial statements.
The board regularly reviews with private and institutional investors and welcomes their the process.
The chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors, including the chairmen of the remuneration and The Group has risk management, compliance and credit audit committees, are available at annual general meetings to control departments, which are responsible to the board answer questions.
for the operation of the Groups controls in these areas.
Key elements of the Groups control environment are its written Details of resolutions to be proposed at the annual general policies on market risk management, credit risk management meeting will be contained in the notice of the meeting.
and various aspects of compliance.
The role of the risk Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director is available to department in the monitoring and management of financial meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the board risk is discussed in the directors report on pages 41-42.
All is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through other changes to the Groups risk management policies are approved mechanisms for shareholder communication.
by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The Group also operates comprehensive financial control and budgeting The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide processes.
feedback to the board of any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
The Group operates an internal audit function, which is responsible for reviewing and testing the Groups control environment.
The internal audit function is independent of the management of the Group and reports regularly to the audit committee.
IG Group Holdings plc 31 Corporate Governance Report and Financial Statements 2007 Attendance at board and committee meetings The number of full board meetings and committee meetings attended by each director as members of each committee during the year was as set out below.
In each case the first figure indicates the number of meetings attended and the second figure indicates the maximum number of meetings during the year for which each individual was a director or committee member.
Full board Nominations Audit Remuneration meetings committee committee committee Jonathan Davie Chairman 7 7 1 1 - 2 2 Tim Howkins Chief Executive 7 7 - - - Steve Clutton 5 5 - - - Peter Hetherington 7 7 - - - Andrew Mackay 6 7 - - - Sir Alan Budd 6 7 1 1 5 5 2 2 Martin Jackson 6 7 1 1 5 5 2 2 Nat le Roux 6 7 - - - Robert Lucas 7 7 - - - Roger Yates 7 7 1 1 5 5 2 2 Evaluation of the boards performance During the year the board carried out an evaluation of itself and its committees.
The evaluation consisted of one-to-one discussions between the Chairman and directors including meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The results of the evaluation were discussed at a board meeting in July 2007.
The performance of the individual executive directors, other than the Chief Executive, is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised annually by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director Roger Yates, taking into account the views of the executive directors, following which Roger Yates gives feedback to the Chairman.
Review of the audit committees performance During the year the audit committee reviewed its performance.
The review consisted of detailed questionnaires completed by all members of the committee and a discussion of the results by the committee at a meeting in May 2007.
The results were reported to the board in May 2007.
Directors subject to re-election In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the following directors retire, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting: Tim Howkins, Peter Hetherington, Andrew MacKay and Robert Lucas.
As Steve Clutton was appointed to the Board in the period since the prior annual general meeting, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, he offers himself for election.
