British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 26 Corporate governance the Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of attention to the Companys business.
the Board does corporate governance are maintained by the group, it not believe that the position had any adverse impact on supports the Combined Code on Corporate governance the the Boards operations, and is satisfied that in the Code and has reviewed its corporate governance practices in circumstances, it was appropriate for him to continue as the light of the Code published by the Financial reporting Chairman.
Council in July 2003 and revised in June 2006 and considers that it complies with section 1 of the Code.
Corporate the Companys Articles of Association provide that at each governance best practice is also monitored, and appropriate AgM any Director who has been appointed by the Board since recommendations from relevant professional bodies are the previous AgM is required to retire and may seek adopted.
re-election, together with such other Directors so as to ensure that the number nearest to but not less than one third The Board of the Directors, for the time being, stand for election or reMembership election.
in order to comply with the provisions of rule A.
7 of sir Adrian Montague held office as Chairman and Bill Coley the Code, all Directors are required to seek re-election at held office as Chief Executive throughout the year.
the roles least every three years.
the Companys current policy is that of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
the Directors should retire at the first AgM after their 66th Chairman is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the birthday, however, the Board will seek shareholder approval to Board, while the Chief Executive directs the executive remove this provision at the Companys forthcoming AgM in functions and is responsible for safety throughout the group.
order to align with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 stephen Billingham continued in office as Finance Director.
and new age discrimination legislation.
roy Anderson resigned as Chief nuclear officer on 17 november 2006 and the roles of Chief nuclear officer and Conduct of Business Deputy Chief nuclear officer have been replaced with a Chief the Board usually meets monthly and meets sufficiently technical officer and three regional Chief nuclear officers regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
it is scheduled to which are not Board appointments but which report directly to meet 10 times a year, and met 18 times during the year.
in addition to the Chairman, there are there is contact amongst the Directors between Board currently seven further non-Executive Directors.
Biographies meetings as necessary to progress the Companys business.
of the Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Although the normal operational management of the Company the Directors are satisfied that the Company complied with has been delegated to the Chief Executive, the Board has a the sections of the Code concerning the balance of the Board number of matters reserved to it, particularly, appropriate throughout the year.
During the year, the number of nonstrategic, financial and organisational matters.
these are Executive Directors was greater than the number of Executive considered at the Boards monthly meetings.
Directors, with two Executive following the resignation of roy Anderson and seven non-Executive Directors in addition to the Board receives reports covering operational, financial, the Chairman.
sir Adrian Montague held an executive office safety, risk management and regulatory performance to with British Energy plc temporarily for part of the financial assist it in identifying key issues for the business on a regular year ended 31 March 2003 following his appointment as and timely basis.
Where appropriate, matters have been Executive Chairman in november 2002.
As Chairman he is delegated to Board committees, all of which have written not categorised as an independent director.
the other constitutions and terms of reference.
Further details of the non-Executive Directors are all considered to be independent.
individual Directors, their roles and membership of the the Companys independent non-Executive Directors are various committees are identified on pages 24 and 25. currently: pascal Colombani All of the non-Executive Directors serving on the Board have Bob Davies held and or hold senior positions in other major organisations John Delucca either in the uK and or internationally.
Each of them is ian harley involved in decision making on key issues facing the group David pryde and collectively bring with them a wide range of experience to Clare spottiswoode the Board.
the non-Executive Directors of the Company meet sir robert Walmsley as a group without Executive Directors present and from time to time also meet without the Chairman present.
the remuneration Committee report on pages 33 to 40 provides further details of appointments to and resignations All Directors may obtain independent professional advice at from the Board.
Clare spottiswoode was the Companys the Companys expense and all Directors have access to the senior independent non-Executive Director and Deputy advice and services of robert Armour, the Company secretary Chairman throughout the year.
and general Counsel, who is accountable to the Board through the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
the Company entered the FtsE 100 index of companies in January 2006 where it remained until December 2006.
Performance Evaluation During that period sir Adrian Montague remained as Chairman performance evaluation of the Board, Chairman and individual and also served as Chairman of Friends provident plc, which Directors and the effectiveness of individual Board was an existing member of the FtsE 100 at the time of committees and the committee structure was carried out British Energys entry to the index.
the Board is satisfied in during the year using a detailed questionnaire which was these circumstances not only that his chairmanship of both completed by the Board.
A report on the key findings was companies did not constitute a breach of rule A.
4.3 of the issued to the Board in May 2007 the 2007 review.
the Code, but that he remained able to devote sufficient time and evaluation reviewed the progress made in three areas C o r p o r At E g o V E r n A n C E British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 27 Corporate governance identified for improvement in the review of performance review Committee should take on an expanded role as the carried out in 2006 the 2006 review.
these were induction technical Advisory Committee, and review technical risks and training, succession planning and a need for greater facing the nuclear fleet as well as monitoring investment focus on strategic issues.
in addition, the Board reviewed the programmes, budget priorities, operational performance and implementation of the changes in the committee structure key operational changes.
the trading review Committee was coming out of the 2006 review which created the technical also asked to expand its role into monitoring non-technical Advisory Committee and the risk review Committee.
risks as well as trading issues and it became the risk review Committee.
All Board members have participated in structured training sessions during the year.
these sessions included trading Risk Management and market issues and strategy, legal and regulatory changes the Board is responsible for determining strategies and affecting the business: issues of interest to shareholders and policies for risk and control, and management is responsible governance: risk assessment and mitigation: and stakeholder for designing, operating and monitoring risk and control engagement.
the Board devoted a day to training in october processes which implement Board policies effectively.
in 2006 and Board members attended a days nuclear safety accordance with the revised turnbull guidance, risk Culture Workshop.
All Board members are also expected to management and internal control are considered by the Board attend at least one meeting of the safety, health and and its committees during the year.
Further details on the Environment Committee, which meets quarterly at power groups present committee structure appear below.
stations, and all are expected to undertake at least one external management course relevant to British Energy in any the risk management process operating throughout the year three year period.
in addition, two Board members and two and up to the date of approval of the report was based on the members of senior management attended the governance identification, mitigation and monitoring of the key risks that course held at Emory university Atlanta, in conjunction with influence the Companys strategy and business objectives.
the institute of nuclear power operators, and all Board members are expected to attend this annual course at some the Board periodically reviews the groups business point during their term of office.
the Company also has in objectives and the risks and controls associated with these.
place procedures to give new Directors a tailored induction specific categories of risk are also reviewed by appropriate programme, as well as ongoing training, and over the coming executive committees, including the group risk Management year that programme will be further developed.
Committee and by subsidiary boards.
risks reviewed by the Board include: in response to the 2006 review the Board devoted more time safe operation of our plant: to strategic issues during the year, working in conjunction operational risks including reliability, output, plant with its advisers n M rothschilds in looking at the condition and human performance: opportunities presented in the nuclear sector, the prospect of the financial position of the group: new nuclear build in the uK, and its strategy to maximise changes in energy markets: shareholder value.
in the 2007 review the Board considered nuclear safety and safety regulations: it had achieved the right balance between strategic focus and commercial and environmental regulation: operational scrutiny.
policy proposals by legislative bodies in the markets in which we operate: the Board also devoted effort to succession planning see treasury and trading financial exposures including the section headed governance and nominations Committee collateral: on page 29 and made good progress in this area although major contracts: and this will continue to be a priority.
the procurement of radioactive waste management services.
in the 2007 review, the Board identified the following areas for focus in the coming year: strategy and the amount of time throughout the year the Companys reporting arrangements the Board devote to strategic issues: oversight of nuclear operated across the groups operating subsidiaries and operations and performance: obtaining investor feedback corporate functions, monitoring business performance on Company performance and strategy: reviewing and against key performance indicators and the business plan.
optimising the Board committee structures and governance risk logs identifying business risks facing the group as a arrangements: and succession planning.
As part of its whole and particular parts of the business were regularly overall performance review the Board has also instructed considered at subsidiary and divisional level and reported to an independent review of the effectiveness of the Board, the groups senior management, and mitigation plans were Board committees, committee and department structures established and monitored.
the groups principal operating specifically in relation to nuclear oversight of operations subsidiaries monitored internal controls and risk mitigation and nuclear governance.
the results of this review will be throughout the year.
in particular, the Board of British Energy presented to the Board in July 2007. the Board will assess generation Limited the generation Board, our nuclear its performance in implementing the resulting actions in the subsidiary, reviewed the operation of the groups nuclear coming year.
power stations and risk and internal control issues affecting the nuclear business.
the generation Board also reports on the groups committee structure is monitored by the Board management and decommissioning liabilities to the Board and reviewed periodically to ensure its continued which, in turn, requires to approve the annual liabilities report effectiveness.
the results of the evaluations carried out in required under the nuclear Liabilities Funding Agreement.
2006 were considered by the governance and nominations Committee and subsequently by the Board.
As a result this year the Board concluded that the nuclear performance British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 28 Corporate governance the conduct of risk assessment involves senior management Board Committees of all the groups business units in addition to the Executive the current committee structure is described below: Directors.
the results of these assessments are summarised and reported to the Board.
these risk assessments will Audit Committee continue to be used as part of the Companys evaluation of the Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent the risks it faces.
in addition, the Board receives half yearly non-Executive Directors.
ian harley is Chairman and John reports from the Chief risk officer, an appointment made Delucca is Deputy Chairman of the committee.
Both are during the year, addressing risk appetite, effectiveness of risk considered to be the financial experts on the committee.
the mitigation and priorities for risk management.
remaining members of the committee are Clare spottiswoode, sir robert Walmsley and David pryde.
the committee has the Electricity Trading Risk Management primary purpose of assisting the Board in overseeing the Electricity trading activities predominantly relate to supporting integrity of the Companys financial statements, and the the generation business.
our trading department therefore Companys compliance with legal and regulatory acts, in the main, as wholesale marketers rather than as pure requirements.
the committee is also responsible for financial traders, with the principal objective of increasing the considering and recommending appropriate accounting return on assets while managing the market risk including policies for the group, reviewing the adequacy and the risks relating to collateral requirements associated with effectiveness of internal control and compliance procedures the output of the power stations.
within the group and ensuring that it complies with all statutory requirements in relation to the principles, policies under the British Electricity transmission and trading and practices adopted in the preparation of the financial Arrangements BEttA, which took effect from 1 April 2005, statements.
the committee reviewed risk management any mismatch between actual metered generation or processes across the group including actions to mitigate or demand and the notified contract position is settled through control key risks facing the group.
the committee receives the balancing mechanism at generally unfavourable prices.
reports from both external and internal auditors in relation to the Company aims to manage its portfolio of fixed price matters arising from their work and is also responsible for contracts and minimise exposure to the balancing mechanism encouraging and monitoring the adoption of best practice in and short-term electricity prices.
the risks in the wholesale corporate governance.
market are managed through a contracting strategy that builds a portfolio of forward contracts of different lengths.
the committee receives reports periodically from the group risk Management Committee and the risk review the risk review Committee, a committee of the Board, Committee.
the committee reviews the scope and results of monitors hedging and risk management strategy for trading as the external audit including the auditors cost-effectiveness, well as independence and objectivity, and is responsible for making non-technical risks facing the group to ensure that activities recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment are conducted within overall limits.
Additional control is and independence of the external auditors and their provided through delegated authorities which form part of an remuneration.
it also reviews the nature and extent of the overall energy trading risk management policy.
there are non-audit services provided by the external auditors to the procedures for setting limits on market and operational risks group to ensure that these are appropriate, and that a and managing credit and collateral exposure to trading and balance of objectivity and value for money is maintained.
the financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
committee normally meets the day prior to Board meetings and otherwise as required by the business of the Company.
Committee Structure the committee met seven times during the year.
in the course the Chairman of each committee reports to the Board of these meetings, the committee considered the following following each committee meeting on decisions taken or matters: endorsed and makes recommendations as appropriate to the Board.
the Board may delegate authority to each of the Financial Reporting committees where the subject of the delegation does not the committee reviewed the annual audited financial require Board approval.
the papers for each committee are statements, quarterly financial statements and investor made available to all Board members, other than those for presentations before recommending their publication to the the remuneration Committee and the governance and Board.
the committee discussed with the Finance Director nominations Committee, which are only circulated to and external auditors, compliance with financial reporting and independent members or as those committees may direct.
governance standards and reviewed significant accounting the committee structure is intended to allow the committees policies, changes to them and any significant financial to scrutinise performance in more detail than the Board could estimates and judgements applied in their preparation.
the achieve in full session and so allows the Board to focus on committee received reports on due diligence on proposed strategic issues to a greater extent.
statements from the Disclosure Committee and reviewed managements going concern analysis on a quarterly basis.
it is the Companys policy that committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
the Company External audit may make further changes to committee structures or roles in the committee has direct responsibility for the appointment, due course in order to comply with further developments in compensation, retention and oversight of external auditors corporate governance best practice and to ensure the and approves their terms of engagement.
it also reviews and effective and efficient operation of those committees.
the monitors the independence and objectivity of the external current terms of reference for each committee are available auditors and managements responsiveness to external audit on the Companys website.
the committee pre-approves all auditing services and permitted non-audit services C o r p o r At E g o V E r n A n C E British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 29 Corporate governance undertaken by the external auditors to ensure the appointments throughout the group.
Board appointments appropriateness of the work and value for money.
the Board recommended by the committee are made after an has approved policies covering the provision of non-audit appropriate search and selection process has been services, which are designed to ensure that such services do undertaken including, where appropriate, the use of external not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
advisers to identify suitable candidates.
the policies require justification as to why non-audit work should be placed with the auditors rather than another firm, During the year the committee reviewed the arrangements for on grounds of best value or confidentiality.
the fees Board training and the expectations for continuing education of recharged to a third party which are disclosed in note 5 to Board members.
it considered the arrangements for Board the Financial statements were justified on grounds of performance review and agreed the remit for the review of confidentiality and synergy with concurrent audit work.
nuclear governance which is now underway.
the committee reviewed delegated authorities and controls across the business the committee recommended that the Board present a and the issues, relating to nuclear expertise availability to the resolution to shareholders at the 2007 AgM for the Board, arising out of the changed internal structure following the reappointment of the external auditors.
this followed an departure of roy Anderson.
Considerable time was devoted to assessment of the quality of service provided, auditor Board succession, an identified area of focus in the 2006 independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
review and to identifying an appropriate successor to Clare spottiswoode who steps down as senior non-Executive Director Whistleblowing in July 2007.
An additional non-Executive Director appointment the committee oversees the effectiveness of the Companys will be announced in due course and ian harley will become procedures to raise concerns in confidence about possible senior non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman with effect financial reporting or other misconduct.
the committee from the date of the 2007 AgM.
the groups Corporate social considered quarterly reports summarising the concerns and responsibility performance was reviewed in June 2006 the Csr the outcome of any investigatory work.
report for 2005 06 is available on the Companys website and the Csr report for 2006 07 will be available in the summer.
Internal Controls and Risk Management the governance and nominations Committee met four times the Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of during the year.
internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
the committee Remuneration Committee has ongoing arrangements designed to assist the Board in the remuneration Committee report containing details of the performance of this responsibility and periodically reports the activities of the remuneration Committee appears on to the Board on controls and risk management.
Accordingly, pages 33 to 40. during the year it considered reports from internal audit on internal control issues and a year-end report from the internal Risk Review Committee control and financial processes team summarising the the risk review Committee is chaired by David pryde.
in outcome from their testing activity.
the committee also addition to David pryde, the independent members are Clare sought the views of the external auditors in making its spottiswoode, ian harley, John Delucca, Bob Davies and its assessment of the internal control environment.
executive members include Bill Coley, stephen Billingham, the trading Director, the Company secretary and general Internal audit Counsel, and the Chief risk officer.
its remit is to review the committee received reports from internal audit at each of hedging and risk management strategy for trading as well as its meetings including quality reports on the reviews conducted non-technical risks facing the group and to monitor that by the internal audit team.
the Chairman of the committee activities are conducted within overall risk limits.
the meets with the head of internal Audit regularly to discuss committee reviews and provides advice on the management current issues and the whole committee held five private and use of risk measurements and controls, as well as sessions with the head of internal Audit during the year.
it also receives reports on the management and maintenance of the policies, the committee commissioned a review of the effectiveness procedures, authorisation and overall risk control framework of the internal audit function in september 2006 and the which is carried out by the trading risk standing Committee.
outcome was considered by the committee in May 2007. the review concluded that the internal audit function is effective, During 2006 07 the committee received regular updates on generally highly regarded, technically competent, objective, the trading environment and the groups contracting strategy.
responsive, professional and adequately resourced.
over the year the group substantially mitigated its collateral suggested actions to further improve the effectiveness of the requirements through structured trades and low collateral or function will be progressed in the coming months.
collateral free arrangements with financial institutions, helping to deliver greater financial robustness for the group.
Areas of Governance and Nominations Committee focus were business continuity planning, information systems the governance and nominations Committee is comprised for trading operations, the arrangements for commodity entirely of non-Executive Directors and is chaired by sir purchasing including coal, uranium and carbon allowances: robert Walmsley.
the committee is responsible for the increasing importance of Co footprints and low carbon 2 encouraging and monitoring the adoption of good corporate electricity to customers: compliance with prudent trading governance practice.
it reviews the Companys code of policies and undertakings to hM government: controls in the conduct and ethics and compliance with this code and the gas, oil, power trading business, the structure of risk control in Companys legal obligations generally.
the committee also the group and the establishment of the Chief risk officers reviews the corporate social responsibility performance of the function: and non-technical risk management and mitigation.
group and advises the Board in relation to senior the risk review Committee met six times during the year.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 30 Corporate governance Safety, Health and Environment Committee Other Committees the safety, health and Environment Committee provides Finance and Policy Committee advice to the Board in relation to the health and safety of the Finance and policy Committee is chaired by Bill Coley and staff, contractors, visitors and the general public, plant safety includes stephen Billingham and robert Armour, Company and the environmental performance of the group.
it reviews secretary and general Counsel, as members.
the Finance key safety and environmental risks affecting the groups and policy Committee generally meets weekly and maintains business and the actions taken to mitigate or control them.
scrutiny of the corporate business of the group and, in it is chaired by sir robert Walmsley and also includes three particular, cross business issues including Finance, human independent experts as well as certain other Directors and resources, strategy, information Management Department, senior managers of the group.
the meetings, which consider Corporate Affairs, internal Audit and risk functions and areas both site-specific and generic issues, are held in rotation at not falling under the generation Board or British Energy power the power stations with the station director and site safety and Energy trading Limited BEpEt Board.
Management Committees and Subsidiary Boards During 2006 07 the committee received regular updates on throughout the year a number of management committees the groups safety and environmental performance.
over the and subsidiary boards were used to assist the Directors in year the Company focused on improving human performance controlling the business.
these included the generation and knowledge of nuclear safety and the committee Board, which directs operational and safety policy in the considered the actions taken and the Companys progress groups nuclear operations, the BEpEt Board, which reviewed against key performance indicators.
in addition the the operational performance strategy and controls in the committee reviewed recommendations coming out of the power trading business and the Eggborough power Limited Baker report into the texas City incident, the Companys Board, which directed operational and safety policy for the response to those recommendations and other reports, and Eggborough coal-fired power station.
how the Companys procedures and organisational structure align with current best practice.
the safety, health and Group Risk Management Committee Environment Committee met five times during the year.
the group risk Management Committee is a management committee chaired by stephen Billingham.
the committee Technical Advisory Committee generally meets every two months to review the group-wide the technical Advisory Committee is chaired by pascal risk management processes of the business, maintain an Colombani and its membership includes Bill Coley, sir robert overview of the risks facing the business and reports to the Walmsley and the safety and technical Director.
the Audit Committee on a regular basis and the Board annually.
committee also includes senior managers with technical the group risk Management Committee met five times during expertise.
the committee considers and advises the Board the year.
on issues of a technical nature referred to it relating to the performance of, and improvements to, British Energys Pensions Committee nuclear fleet.
the committee reviews and advises on the the pensions Committee is a management committee which implementation and direction of the groups ongoing monitors the management of the two group pension schemes continuous improvement programme, reviews technical and is chaired by the human resources Director.
the risks facing the group and advises the group on significant chairmen of the British Energy generation group trustees and changes proposed affecting its nuclear operations and the British Energy Combined group trustees are members, as organisation.
Members of the generation Board continue to are certain other Directors and senior managers of the group.
have responsibility for, and direct, the operational and safety the pensions Committee reviews and advises on the policies policy of British Energys nuclear operations.
being adopted by the trustees of these schemes and is responsible for advising the Board and reporting to the Audit During 2006 07 the committee reviewed the business plan Committee on all matters relating to these schemes.
the priorities for the generation business including outage and pensions Committee met five times during the year.
short run loss performance, asset improvement initiatives and continuous improvement plans.
the technical issues Disclosure Committee dominating the year were the boiler issues at hunterston B the Disclosure Committee is a management committee which and hinkley point B, the periodic safety reviews of these reviews the accuracy and completeness of the Companys stations, the prospects for life extension and planning for proposed financial and certain other public statements and output recovery and all these issues were reviewed.
it is chaired by the group Financial Controller, and committee considered the key technical risks across the comprises management level representatives of operational fleet and how these were being managed and integrated.
and corporate departments from throughout the group.
the the organisational changes in generation, including the Disclosure Committee reports to the Audit Committee, the restructuring of the generation Board and the transfer of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and met five times Management of Change Board functions to the nuclear safety during the year.
Committee were considered and supported.
the committee normally meets the day prior to a Board meeting and met four times during the year.
C o r p o r At E g o V E r n A n C E British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 31 Corporate governance the attendance of Directors at Board and committee meetings of those committees of which they are members in the year is set out in the table below : governance safety, and health and technical Audit nominations remuneration risk review Environment Advisory # Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 18 7 4 8 6 5 4 1 sir Adrian Montague 18 Bill Coley 18 6 4 stephen Billingham 17 5 2 roy Anderson 8 2 2 pascal Colombani 18 4 8 4 3 Bob Davies 16 3 6 5 John Delucca 18 5 4 5 ian harley 16 7 4 6 David pryde 17 5 4 8 6 Clare spottiswoode 17 7 3 8 5 sir robert Walmsley 18 7 4 7 5 3 Figures in brackets refer to the total number of Board or committee meetings during the year.
non-Executive Directors commonly attend meetings of committees of which they are not formally members, these attendances are not shown in the above table.
# in addition, delegated special committees of the Board meet from time to time for the purposes of considering specific items of business.
1 sir Adrian Montague became a member of the remuneration Committee in May 2007 and was not a member during financial year 2006 07 therefore no attendances are reported for the year.
2 roy Anderson resigned in november 2006 therefore the attendances shown do not represent a full year.
3 Bob Davies was appointed in May 2006 therefore the attendances shown do not represent a full year.
Organisational Structure Internal Compliance and Control there are clearly defined lines of accountability throughout the Board is responsible for the groups system of internal the group.
these include strict authorisation approval and controls and reviewing its effectiveness.
the identification of control procedures within which senior management operate.
key business risks, the evaluation of their financial and nonsimilarly, the senior management team within each subsidiary financial implications and formulation of policies to manage or division is responsible for its internal financial controls.
such risks is the responsibility of the Directors.
this system those management teams operate within an overall is designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, framework determined by the Board.
risk and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
External Non-Executive Directorships We permit Executive Directors to accept external nonthe Board assessed the effectiveness of the Companys executive directorships provided they do not cause a conflict internal controls as of the date of this report.
in making this or inhibit the Directors ability to work for the Company.
Each assessment, the Companys management used the criteria such appointment including the details of emoluments is set forth by the Committee of sponsoring organisations of subject to Board approval.
Details of such fees from external the treadway Commission Coso in internal Controlnon-executive directorships are included on page 37. integrated Framework.
Investment Approval Compliance with the groups internal financial, risk the approval of capital and revenue schemes above certain management and other controls is monitored by a number of limits is reserved to the Board.
other investment decisions methods including management reviews and self-certification are delegated for approval in accordance with authority limits.
reports from Directors and senior officers of each of the key the group has comprehensive appraisal and monitoring subsidiaries or divisions.
the groups internal audit function procedures which apply to all material investment decisions.
is responsible for providing assurance on the performance of the internal financial and risk management control system Business Planning and computer operations and reports regularly to the Audit A comprehensive business planning and budgeting process Committee.
internal audit work is focused on the areas of to establish plans and targets, against which performance is highest risk as agreed and prioritised by the Audit Committee.
regularly monitored, is undertaken each year.
Key business the scope of work, authority and resources of the internal risks identified during the planning process are reviewed audit function are reviewed by the Audit Committee at least regularly throughout the year.
the Board receives monthly annually.
the role of the internal audit function is discussed reports and management accounts and reviews the overall further below.
group performance against budget and the latest forecasts for the current year.
similarly, each subsidiary and divisional management team meets regularly to monitor performance.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 32 Corporate governance steps are being taken to embed internal controls and risk Corporate Social Responsibility management further into the operations of the business and the Company will shortly publish a separate Corporate social to explore areas of improvement which come to management responsibility report for 2006 07 on its website.
this will and the Boards attention.
Although the Company is no longer include details of the groups record on safety and bound by the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley Act it has environmental performance.
Further information on our sought to retain the revised arrangements relating to internal approach to Corporate social responsibility is contained controls over financial and non-financial issues.
it has on pages 22 and 23. our 2005 06 Corporate social adopted a more streamlined and risk-based approach building responsibility report is available on the Companys website.
on the disciplines and processes that were established.
Confidential Reporting of Serious Concerns From 2007 08 on, a self-certification process will be adopted the Company operates a procedure to allow staff to raise with internal controls and risk management being embedded serious concerns, suspicions of fraud or money laundering, further into the operations of the business.
testing and suspicious accounting treatment or practices, and any other certification will be performed at divisional level with central suspicious, unsafe or non-compliant activity which an co-ordination by Finance and independent oversight employee may observe on a confidential basis.
in relation to performed by internal Audit.
As part of this process, allegations of serious fraud this procedure involves direct management will be encouraged to explore opportunities referral to an external independent organisation which will for improvement which may come to their attention.
record concerns and determine the appropriate person to investigate them and recommend any action required to Internal Audit address resulting issues.
the groups internal audit function provides independent assurance that the risk management processes in place Going Concern across the group are of sound design and are operating as the Board considers it appropriate to prepare these intended.
Evaluation of the adequacy of the framework of consolidated financial statements and parent company controls in place to mitigate risks to an acceptable level is financial statements on a going concern basis because, conducted as part of that assurance.
Within its scope, the having reviewed the groups cash flow position and outlook, function examines the groups controls and procedures and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the attempts to identify any potential best practices weaknesses Company and the group have adequate resources to continue within the systems.
operating for the foreseeable future as a going concern.
internal audit work follows an annually developed risk-based Communication with Shareholders and Stakeholders plan which is agreed by the Audit Committee and the Company recognises the importance of maintaining an encompasses all areas of the group.
Development of the ongoing relationship with its shareholders and stakeholders.
annual plan is based on a range of information sources, it intends to use its AgM on 19 July 2007 as an opportunity including review of corporate risk log information and to communicate with shareholders.
it is the Companys policy discussion with key management across the group to that all Directors are available to answer shareholders understand their view of risks and priorities.
in addition to the questions at the AgM.
in addition, the Chairman, the Chief approved plan the function responds to emerging risks and Executive, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance issues arising within the year as appropriate or at the request Director and the senior independent non-Executive Director of management and the Audit Committee.
will meet with the Companys principal shareholders on request to discuss relevant issues when they arise.
the An external review of the internal audit function was recently Company seeks to ensure that the Directors, particularly the undertaken which gave an overall view that the function is non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the effective at providing independent assurance to the Board in views of major shareholders through various routes including relation to the internal control environment in the group.
the meetings and analysts or brokers briefings.
the Chairman review did identify a number of actions and recommendations has met with a number of institutional shareholders during to enhance current arrangements which are being built into a the year.
the Company secretarys office responds to structured plan for delivery over the coming months.
this numerous letters from shareholders on various issues exercise will be repeated on at least a five year cycle to throughout the year.
information sent to shareholders and continue to independently assess the function and identify copies of all Company announcements are made available on opportunities for ongoing development.
to ensure independence of the internal audit function the the notice of British Energy group plcs AgM last year held head of internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit on 20 september 2006, was dispatched to shareholders not Committee.
the Audit Committee considered the scope of less than 20 working days before the meeting and details of internal audits work, its plans for the year and resources in proxy votes received were made available in accordance with May 2006. subsequent changes to the plan were the recommendations of the Code.
communicated throughout the year to the Audit Committee, and the results of the years work were presented to the Audit Committee at the year end.
two private sessions were held between the members of the Audit Committee and the head of internal Audit.
