Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 17 Corporate Governance The Directors believe that effective corporate governance, In those months when the Board does not meet, members continue appropriate to the Group considering its size and stage of to be informed on a formal reporting basis of financial results and development, will assist in the delivery of corporate strategy, key issues.
The Board is supplied with information in a timely the generation of shareholder value and the safeguarding of manner, and in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to shareholders long term interests.
The Directors are committed discharge its duties.
Directors receive appropriate induction on therefore, wherever it is reasonably practicable, to ensure that joining the Board and regularly update their skills and knowledge.
the Group is managed in accordance with the principles set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board has a policy to set out which matters are reserved for the decision of the Board, and to clarify those matters which the The role and composition of the Board Executive Directors need not refer for approval.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, who is not deemed to be independent because of his shareholdings, four This policy also identifies those matters regarding which full full-time Executive Directors and three other Non-Executive delegation to a Board Committee is not normally permitted Directors, two of whom are deemed to be independent because because a final decision on the matter is required to be taken by they have either very few or no shares or share options.
The terms and conditions for the appointment Webster moved from being Non-Executive to Executive Director of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection.
Matters in March 2007 and having successfully redefined and which the Board considers suitable for delegation are contained implemented the Companys sales and marketing strategy, in the terms of reference of its Committees.
particularly in the North American market, will resume his Non-Executive responsibilities from 1 November this year.
The Board has established the following three committees: The Audit Committee.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are vested in The Nomination Committee.
separate individuals, each with clear allocation of accountability The Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman has prime responsibility for running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer has executive Each of the committees is described in more detail below.
responsibilities for the Companys strategic development, operations and results.
The Audit Committee The Committee is made up of three Non-Executive Directors two The structure of the Board and the integrity of each Director of whom are considered to be independent.
The Chairman is ensures that there is no one individual or group dominating Peter Keen, who is a Chartered Accountant, with David Cleevely the decision making process.
and Tony Kouzarides being the other Directors on the Committee.
The Board holds full meetings every second month.
The principal The Committee has responsibility for the following matters: matters that it considers are as follows: To review the accounts and the key judgements and policies Monthly management accounts and performance against underlying them in relation to the interim and annual financial budget.
statements before they are submitted to the Board for final Regular reviews of R&D, operations and product line approval.
To review the managements reports on internal controls.
An annual review of strategic objectives and Company priorities.
To review the Groups risk-management process, including the The Group budget.
Reporting including statutory accounts, dividend policy, To review the appointment of the external auditors together dividend payments and the AGM.
Performance of the Board and sub-Committees.
To monitor the audit and non-audit work of the external Reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration auditors, including reviewing any management letters and the Committees.
An annual review of risk-management strategy and controls and a six-monthly review of the risk register.
As part of its procedures, the Committee discusses the interim Matters relating to the Companys obligations as a listed and annual financial statements with the external auditors.
appropriate, non-Committee members are invited to attend.
Management of funds and major capital expenditure, including During the period the Committee has met twice on a formal basis proposals for mergers or acquisitions of other companies or and a number of times informally.
The Committee is expected to product lines.
continue to meet formally twice a year.
18 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee Internal control The Committee is made up of three Non-Executive Directors, The Board acknowledges its responsibility for safeguarding the one of whom is considered to be independent: David Cleevely shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
In applying this Chairman, Peter Keen and Tony Kouzarides.
It is responsible principle, the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the following matters: for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control To identify and nominate suitable candidates to fill vacancies to provide it with reasonable assurance regarding effective and on the Board.
efficient operation, internal financial control and compliance with To review succession planning for both Directors and the laws and regulations.
Through the Audit Committee and meetings with the auditors, the The Remuneration Committee Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls, The Committee is made up of three Non-Executive Directors, two and taken steps to ensure that the Group has an appropriate of whom are deemed to be independent: Peter Keen Chairman, control environment for its size and complexity.
The management David Cleevely and Tim Dye.
team will identify, evaluate and monitor risk in order to ensure that the internal control environment develops with the size of The Committee is responsible for the following matters: the Group.
Setting the basic pay of Executive Directors and the remuneration of the Chairman.
Such systems, which are designed to manage rather than Setting a performance-related bonus plan for the Executive eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Directors, including determining the extent to which they will provide reasonable, though not absolute, assurance participate in the Companys Profit Share Scheme PSS.
against material loss or misstatement.
Agreeing the allocation and term for the granting of new share options to Executive Directors.
Dialogue with shareholders Determining the Executive Directors pension contributions.
The Board believes it is important to have open communications Overseeing the overall annual pay review for the Group.
To this end, the CEO and Finance Director, working in consultation with the Companys corporate and PR The Committee aims to set levels of remuneration for Executive advisors, make themselves available to, and expect to meet with, Directors that are appropriate for the size and complexity of the shareholders at least twice a year.
The Board intends to give a Group.
It aims to see that a significant proportion of their presentation on progress within the Group at the AGM.
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the Companys Profit Share Scheme and its share option scheme, both of which are reviewed each year.
