Corporate governance The Group recognises, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has kept its corporate governance practices under review throughout the year.
During the year the Board has referred to the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive Directors, the Smith Report on audit committees in January 2003 and the resultant revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published in July 2003 to maintain these high standards.
An explanation of how the principles of good governance, set out in Section 1 of the Code, which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, have been applied is contained in this report and in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, the Company has been compliant with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
In addition, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Code except in relation to Board composition.
However, in view of the number of Executive Directors on the Board, it is currently not considered appropriate to have a majority of independent non-executive Directors as this would create a Board which is too large to be effective.
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by the Nomination Committee.
Statement of compliance with the principles of the combined code Board of Directors As at 31 March 2007, including Mr Keller and Mr Camus, the Board comprised six Executive Directors, an independent non-executive Chairman and six non-executive Directors of whom five are independent.
Mr Licoys and Mr Stone will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Attwood has been designated as Chief Executive since 6 April 2005.
Each of the six Executive Directors has specific areas of responsibility and all collectively form the Executive Committee, with no one Director being able to significantly affect the running of the Company without consulting his colleagues.
With the retirement of Mr Stone, Mr Dowley has been identified as the senior independent Director going forward.
The non-executive Directors are as follows: P J Manser was appointed a non-executive Director in January 2001 and non-executive Chairman in May 2001.
T H Bartlam was appointed a non-executive Director in April 2005.
J D Camus was appointed a non-executive Director in March 2007 for election at the AGM.
L J Dowley was appointed a non-executive Director in February 2006.
E G Licoys was appointed a non-executive Director in January 1998.
J J Nelson was appointed a non-executive Director in May 2001.
P J Stone was appointed a non-executive Director in January 1998.
The Companys Board of Directors meets at least six times a year to discuss the performance of the Company and to discuss matters which it has reserved to itself for decision as well as any other matters that are referred to it.
It is their responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects to the shareholders and this is done through the Chairmans statement, the business and market review, the financial review and the financial statements.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate quality of information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Further information is obtained by the Board from the Executive Directors and other relevant members of senior management, as the Board, particularly its non-executive Directors, considers appropriate.
The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was undertaken in July 2006.
At least one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year in accordance with the Articles of Association and all Directors are re-elected at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year must offer himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of Directors for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are shown on page 33.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors and terms of reference for the Committees are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends that Messrs Bartlam, fide Mitry, Nelson and Piper should be re-elected to the Board because, based upon a formal performance evaluation during the year, their performance continues to be effective.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr Camus and Mr Keller offer themselves for election as they were appointed to the Board during the year.
36 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board has established a number of Committees consisting of certain Directors, including an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee whose membership and functions are defined below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four 2006 five independent non-executive Directors, these being Messrs, Dowley, Licoys, Nelson and Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Dowley.
Mr Manser resigned as Chairman on 18 May 2006 and Mr Dowley was appointed in his place.
One non-executive Director, Mr Bartlam, is not a member of the Audit Committee but is invited to attend the meetings.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to attend.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Companys auditors, are also invited to attend and have direct access to Committee members.
The Committee meets regularly, at least twice a year and is responsible for: Selecting and recommending the appointment of the external auditors to the Board, approving their terms of reference and fees.
Reviewing the performance of the external auditors and ensuring appropriate rotation of audit partner.
Acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and giving input to the Boards review of the Companys internal control and risk management systems and procedures.
Reviewing the independence of the external auditors and the relationship between audit and non-audit work performed by the external auditors.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all significant non-audit work performed by the auditors is approved in advance by the Committee and they assess whether such appointments impair, or appear to impair the auditors judgement or independence.
The Audit Committee also undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The results of the evaluation were last reported to the Board in May 2006.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP is shown in note 10 on page 62.
Reviewing the annual and interim accounts before being presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: compliance with applicable, accounting and legal standards: issues regarding a significant element of judgement: and the statements on internal controls and business risk assessment.
Reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio on a six-monthly basis.
Reviewing and approving the Companys whistleblowing policy.
Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of five 2006 four independent non-executive Directors, these being Messrs Camus, Dowley, Licoys, Nelson and Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Nelson.
Further details regarding remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Nomination Committee The Committee consists of six 2006 five independent non-executive Directors, these being Messrs Camus, Dowley, Manser, Licoys, Nelson and Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Manser.
Appointments of executive and non-executive Directors are made as necessary as a result of discussions by the Committee and are subject to full Board approval.
This process was followed for the appointments of Mr Camus and Mr Keller to the Board during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 37 Corporate governance continued Attendance at Board Committee meetings The table below shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance record of individual Directors.
Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Board meetings meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings T R Attwood 6 T H Bartlam 6 J D Camus 1 1 L J Dowley 6 2 2 2 C A Evain 5 P H Keller 4 E G Licoys 6 2 2 2 P J Manser 6 2 2 2 F fide Mitry 6 J J Nelson 6 2 2 2 A C Phillips 5 P J Piper 6 P J Stone 6 2 2 1 Mr Manser attended these meetings but he is not on the Committee.
Mr Manser attended one of these meetings when he was not on the Committee.
Mr Keller was appointed to the Board on 28 September 2006.
Although the Company undertook an extensive search using a head hunter specialising in senior financial appointments, Mr Keller was known to ICG as the Finance Director of one of its Portfolio companies, ERM Holdings Ltd ERM.
During the six years that Mr Keller was Finance Director at ERM, he was instrumental in developing the infrastructure of a global business and was involved in two leveraged buyouts.
ICG were investors in both buyouts and had observer status on ERMs board from 2001 to 2005.
The Nominations Committee therefore had a good insight of the skills and experience that Mr Keller would be able to contribute to ICG.
Prior to joining ERM, Mr Keller held a number of financial directorships at Glaxo Smithkline and Johnson & Johnson and is qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
Mr Camus was appointed to the Board on 29 March 2007.
His appointment has not been subject to external search consultancy or open advertising.
Mr Camus has been active in the private equity markets for 20 years, including founding Orium, a proprietary investment firm in 1996.
Previously, he was a founding partner of LBO France.
The Nomination Committee considers that Mr Camus is a highly experienced private equity specialist, with senior experience across a number of countries and sectors as well as holding a highly admirable track record in the market.
The Board believes Mr Camus can make a serious contribution based on his financial skills, acumen and experience.
Mr Licoys and Mr Stone will retire at the AGM.
Mr Dowley has been identified as the senior independent Director going forward.
Relationships with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communication with its shareholders, which it achieves through interim and annual reports and the Annual General Meeting.
The Company is always willing to enter into dialogue with shareholders, based on mutual understanding of objectives, and meetings are regularly held with major shareholders.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested to do so, non-executive Directors will attend meetings with major shareholders.
Internal control Under the terms of the Code, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group has in place a system of internal control that is appropriate to the business environment in which it operates.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and believe that such a system of control is in place to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
38 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Directors report and accounts.
This process has been subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The key elements of this process are: Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by the Board.
A detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the Groups finance function: Financial risks primarily loan losses and associated risks are considered on behalf of the Board by the Executive Committee.
The minutes of the Executive Committee are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
These controls concentrate on the procedures for making and monitoring loans and investments and for the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised disposition: Operational risks including compliance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 are considered on behalf of the Board by the Executive Committee.
The Board has established practices for reviewing the system of internal control by way of reports it receives from the Executive Committee.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal control system and size of the Company it cannot be justified at present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the risk management and control arrangements in July 2006 in order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Going concern statement Based upon the review of the Groups budgets and outline business plans for the next two years, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 39
