46 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Corporate governance report 1.
Introduction 2.5 Ray Miles has been appointed as the senior independent 1.1 This section explains how the Company has applied the main director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 Operating Officer or Finance Director has failed to resolve.
2.6 Each of the non-executive directors has been formally determined 1.2 The statement of compliance is set out on page 49 in by the board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Governance framework 1.3 This report covers the period from 16 July 2007 to 31 December 2.7 The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically 2007 as 16 July was the date on which the Companys shares were reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of admitted to the Official List and were admitted to trading on the budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities the for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
There are five principal board committees.
All committees have written terms of reference.
The terms of reference can be found on 2.
The board the Companys website www.
co. uk or are available on request Composition from the Company Secretary, who is secretary to all the committees.
2.1 The board leads and controls the Company.
It currently comprises Meetings two executive directors Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, 2.8 Eight board meetings, plus a strategy retreat, are scheduled four non-executive directors and an Executive Chairman.
A detailed agenda, together with a pack of board papers, arrangement of an Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so has been chosen to ensure that the Group has the depth of he has sufficient time to review them.
All directors are, therefore, management resource needed to support its ambitious expansion able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such plans.
The Executive Chairman devotes three days a week to as strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
his role with the Company and is more intensively involved in Additional meetings are called if required and there is contact the development of the Companys strategy and stakeholder between meetings, where necessary, to progress the Companys relationships than would typically be the case.
In December 2007, the Chairman met with the nonDivision of responsibilities executive directors without any other executive directors present: 2.2 The board has approved a statement of the division of the non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Operating discuss the Chairmans performance and the senior independent Officer.
The Chairman is responsible for developing the strategy director was responsible for discussing this with the Chairman.
and direction of the business and provides vision and overall Company Secretary leadership.
He is also responsible for chairing the board meetings 2.9 All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the annual The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a general meeting AGM and the nomination committee.
The Chief matter for the board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to Operating Officer is responsible for running the business and for the five principal board committees.
other matters apart from those which are the responsibility of the Chairman, those reserved to the board as a whole and the board Independent advice committees, which he will delegate accordingly.
2.10 There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of Chairman his duties at the Companys expense.
2.3 The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain and a nonexecutive director of Ladbrokes plc.
There have been no material Re-election of directors changes in his other commitments since the demerger date or 2.11 Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the since the year end.
The Chairman was considered at appointment directors are obliged to retire each year and each director must to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
offer himself for election every three years.
After nine years a director other than an executive director must offer himself for Non-executive directors re-election annually.
A director who is initially appointed by the 2.4 The non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed board is subject to election at the AGM following his appointment.
The initial period may be extended for a further period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters Policy on other board appointments of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office 2.12 The board has approved a policy on other directorships.
Any or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
request for an exception to this policy is considered on its merits.
co. uk ar07 directors International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 47 2.13 A full-time executive director will be permitted to hold compliance controls and risk management, and reports to the one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that board on its work.
It keeps the Group risk register under review appointment provided that the board considers that this will not and considers the most important risks facing the Group and adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
It also reviews the Groups whistleblowing policy.
2.14 The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the non- 3.3 The Groups internal audit function is outsourced to Ernst & executive directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties Young LLP EY who have provided these services to the business as such, including chairing a board committee as appropriate.
The committee formally agrees the internal audit executive director would not be expected to hold more than four plan in December for the following year.
The plan provides broad other material non-executive directorships.
If he holds an executive coverage of the business activities and includes reviews in each role in another FTSE 350 company, he would not be expected to of the countries together with the key corporate functions in the hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
The committee reviews regular reports on the activity of the internal audit function.
During 2007, 11 reports were produced Performance evaluation and their content was considered by the committee.
Each member 2.15 The board has carried out an evaluation of its performance of the committee receives reports and a summary is included in and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Chairman the EY activity report which is presented at each meeting.
As the was primarily responsible for this evaluation and in December internal auditors report to the committee, this helps to ensure the 2007 submitted a questionnaire to all directors.
This contained functions independence from Group management and ensures questions on different aspects of the operation of the board that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
and its committees and the performance of individual directors.
The senior independent director was responsible for collating 3.4 The Groups external auditors are  LLP comments on the Chairmans performance.
At the audit committee meeting in September PwC present evaluation was presented to the board which considered the results their audit strategy to enable them to deliver their audit opinion at of the evaluation: proposals to take account of these were agreed.
the end of the forthcoming audit.
At the February meeting PwC give a detailed presentation of the results of their audit work.
At the July Training meeting they give a detailed presentation on the results of their 2.16 Prior to the demerger date, each director was given a half-year review.
memorandum and briefing on the responsibilities of a director of a listed company.
The Companys policy is to provide appropriate 3.5 At the invitation of the committee, meetings are attended by training to directors, taking into account their individual qualifications both the internal and external auditors as required and by the and experience.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit individual needs Finance Director and the director of group accounting.
In 2007 including environmental, social and governance training as appropriate.
the Finance Director attended both meetings.
The committee has a session at each meeting with the internal and external auditors 3.
Report on the audit and risk committee without an executive director or member of the Companys senior 3.1 From the demerger date to 31 December 2007, this committee management being present.
consisted of Tony Hales and Ray Miles under the chairmanship of 3.6 The committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the external Nick Page.
auditors are, and are perceived to be, independent and its work 3.2 The committee makes recommendations to the board, for relating to this is summarised in paragraphs 3.6.
4 below: the board to put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to 3.6.
1 The committee has adopted a policy on the appointment the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditors and of staff from the auditors to positions within the various Group approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
This prevents key members of the audit and monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors and engagement team from being employed as Finance Director the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration or director of group accounting: relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
It develops and implements policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply 3.6.
2 The committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external non-audit services and reports to the board identifying any matters auditors for non-audit work.
The award of non-audit work to the in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to needed and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
conduct an independent audit and are perceived to be independent It monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company by the Groups shareholders and stakeholders.
The performance of and the formal announcements relating to the Companys financial non-audit work by the Groups auditors should be minimised and performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements work should be awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, contained in them.
It keeps under review the effectiveness of the skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to be preferred over Groups system of internal controls, including operational and alternative suppliers.
The Group should maintain an active 48 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Corporate governance report continued relationship with at least two other professional accounting 7.
Report on the disclosure committee advisers.
No information technology, remuneration, recruitment, 7.1 From the demerger date to 31 December 2007, this committee valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the consisted of David Broadbent and Rosamond Marshall Smith under auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of the audit the chairmanship of John Harnett.
and risk committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional 7.2 The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring that the circumstances.
The Chairman of the audit and risk committee Companys obligations pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority are carried out and with an aggregate cost of 125,000 or more.
The auditors may that appropriate policies and procedures are in place.
not perform internal audit work: 3.6.
3 Since the demerger date, the committee has kept under review 8.
Board and committee attendance the non-audit work carried out by PwC.
Fees paid to PwC in 2007 are 8.1 The table in paragraph 8.2 below shows the attendance at the set out on page 65 in note 4 of the notes to the financial statements: and meetings of the board and committees.
Attendance at meetings by directors, other than members, is not shown.
4 PwC provide a letter of independence for the committee to consider at least once a year.
8.2 Board and committee attendance in 2007.
Audit and risk Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee 4.
Report on the nomination committee Total number of meetings 4212 4.1 From the demerger date to 31 December 2007, this committee Christopher Rodrigues 41 consisted of Charles Gregson, Tony Hales, John Harnett, Ray Miles John Harnett 41 and Nick Page under the chairmanship of Christopher Rodrigues.
David Broadbent 4 Charles Gregson 41 4.2 Its remit is to assist the board in the process of the selection Ray Miles 4212 and appointment of any new director.
It keeps under review the Tony Hales 3212 structure, size and composition of the board.
It considers and, Nick Page 3201 if appropriate, recommends to the board the appointment of any new director.
It considers the succession plan annually and reports 9.
Internal control to the board that it has done so.
9.1 The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal 4.3 In December 2007 the committee considered the size, structure control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system can provide and composition of the board and determined it continued to be only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material appropriate for there to be an Executive Chairman and a Chief misstatement or loss.
9.2 The key elements of the internal control system which have been 4.4 It should be noted that the appointments to the board made established in accordance with the revised Guidance for Directors at the time of the demerger were considered by the nomination on the Combined Code are set out in paragraphs 9.3 to 9.7 below.
committee of Provident Financial plc prior to the demerger date.
9.3 In December each year, the board approves detailed budgets An external search consultancy was used for this purpose.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half 5.
Report on the remuneration committee year.
Actual performance against budgets is monitored in detail Full details of the composition and work of the remuneration regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
committee are contained on page 50 in paragraph 2 of the directors remuneration report.
Details of the Companys equity incentive 9.4 The audit and risk committee keeps under review the adequacy schemes are set out on pages 50 and 51 in paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors of the directors remuneration report.
and reports to the board regularly.
An annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by 6.
Report on the executive committee the internal auditors.
The operation of internal financial controls is 6.1 From the demerger date to 31 December 2007, this monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure committee consisted of David Broadbent and John Harnett by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
under the chairmanship of Christopher Rodrigues.
9.5 The audit and risk committee also considers the nature and 6.2 The committee deals with matters relating to the running extent of the risks facing the Group, keeps them under review, of the Group, other than those matters reserved to the board reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There of changes in the status and control of risks.
It reports to the board is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
In addition, the risk advisory group consisting www.
co. uk ar07 directors International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 49 of the executive directors, the director of group accounting and the Regulation.
Such financial statements should present fairly for Company Secretary formally reviews internal risk assessments each financial year the financial position, financial performance from each subsidiary twice a year and directs reviews of internal and cash flows of the Group and the Company.
controls and of particular areas of risk.
It reports to the audit and 11.3 The directors have a general responsibility for taking such risk committee.
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 9.6 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance of the Group and the Company and to prevent and detect material with corporate policies.
9.7 In accordance with the Turnbull guidance 2005, the board has 11.4 This document the Annual Report and Financial Statements reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal 2007 will be published on the Companys website in addition to controls including financial, operational and compliance controls the normal paper version.
The maintenance and integrity of the and risk management systems since the demerger date.
The process International Personal Finance website is the responsibility of the for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve by the Company, as set out above, was in place throughout the period consideration of these matters.
from the demerger date and up to 21 March 2008.
The board will also, 11.5 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and whenever appropriate, ensure that necessary actions have been dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation or are being taken, to remedy significant failings or weaknesses in other jurisdictions.
identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Relations with shareholders 12.1 In accordance with Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure and 10.1 The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders Transparency Rules, the following responsibility statement is on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that given by each of the directors: namely Christopher Rodrigues, appropriate channels of communication are established between Executive Chairman: John Harnett, Chief Operating Officer: David the executive directors and shareholders and ensuring that the Broadbent, Finance Director: Charles Gregson, non-executive views of the shareholders are made known to the entire board.
director: Tony Hales, non-executive director: Ray Miles, nonAn investor relations report is considered by the board regularly executive director: and Nick Page, non-executive director.
and independent reviews of shareholder views are commissioned.
12.2 To the best of each directors knowledge, the financial 10.2 The Company will give shareholders 20 working days notice of statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of the AGM.
The Company has not yet held an AGM but it will be its policy accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, that the chairmen of each of the board committees will be available to liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the answer questions from shareholders and there will be an opportunity undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
the directors report includes a fair review of the development and Details of proxy votes cast will be made available to shareholders performance of the business and the position of the Company and and other interested parties by means of an announcement to the the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, London Stock Exchange and by the Companys website.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 10.3 The board presents the Companys position and prospects that they face.
in as clear a way as possible.
The annual report and circulars will be posted on the Companys website.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code the Company to the London Stock Exchange are also posted on 13.1 The Company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 of the Companys website www.
the Combined Code from the demerger date to 31 December 2007 with the following exceptions.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 13.2 The Company has a Chairman who carries out, in part, Chief 11.1 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction Executive responsibilities for the reason specified in paragraph with the independent auditors report on page 55, is made to 2.1 above.
distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
13.3 The International Personal Finance plc Incentive Plan provides a one-off rather than phased incentive to the senior executive 11.2 The directors are required to prepare the financial statements team in the three-year period following demerger.
This is designed in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, to incentivise them to achieve the Companys ambitious plans and as adopted by the EU.
They are also required to ensure that the strategic targets during this critical period in the development of financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, the Company.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
