Introduction Investec is committed to promoting sustainable confidence in our conduct as a business and a corporate citizen.
While the board oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee worldwide is responsible for promoting good corporate governance practices.
In formulating our governance framework, we apply leading corporate governance practices pragmatically, so as to: Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities.
Enhance the capital market's perception of us.
Identify and mitigate significant risks, including reputational risk.
Promote informed and sound decision making.
Secure the trust and confidence of all stakeholders.
Lead to effectiveness, efficiency, responsibility and accountability.
Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance.
Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities.
Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our actions.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour, practices and activities, to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require directors and employees to behave with integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and conduct which promotes trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure and the structures designed to formalise oversight of and to ensure that the values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continue to refine these structures, and a written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics.
106 We operate under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, which requires adoption of the corporate governance regulations of the UK and South Africa.
Other international business units operate in accordance with the corporate governance recommendations of their jurisdictions, but with clear reference at all times to our group values and culture.
Corporate governance Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of Directors DLC Nomination Committee Audit and Audit and Audit Sub-Committees Audit Sub-Committees Board Risk Review Committee DLC Remuneration Committee DLC Capital Committee Executive Risk Review Forum 107 Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committees Implementation Forums Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Internal Compliance Audit Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Committee Goup Legal Risk Forum Group Risk Management Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities Corporate governance Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2006 and the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II, in terms of which all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation and best practices.
The board is of the opinion that Investec complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in section 1 of the London Combined Code 2006 as well as King ll, during the period under review, except as outlined below.
3.1. and King ll - Independence of the Chairman Since 2005, the Chairman of the board is not considered to be independent but continues to enhance his status as a non-executive director.
This opinion of the board is based on the practices below, which were in operation during the period under review.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks we face and preparing the information contained in this annual report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the Audit, Risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to below.
108 Our financial statements were prepared on the going concern basis, taking into consideration: Corporate governance practices.
The nature and complexity of our business.
The risks we assume, and their management and mitigation.
Key business and control processes in operation.
The operation of board committee support structures.
Our credit rating and access to capital.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group on a going concern basis over the next year.
Board of directors Role and responsibilities The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy and our compliance with applicable legislation.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, approving key policies and objectives, understanding the key risks we face, and determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate them.
The board has defined the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies: overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: approving the establishment of businesses: and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management, which is required to implement the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors management's progress on an ongoing basis.
Corporate governance Furthermore, the board, directly or through its sub-committees: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and non-financial monitoring.
This involves an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, and management strategic and operational updates.
Approves annual budgets and business plans.
Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice.
Monitors our communication with all stakeholders.
Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators.
Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control.
Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of our strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
Composition, structure and process Membership In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and manage Investec as if it were a unified economic enterprise.
At the end of the period under review, the board, excluding the Chairman, comprised four executive directors and twelve non-executive directors.
As set out below, the board concluded that the majority i. e. eight of the non-executive directors are independent in terms of the London Combined Code and King II.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 145 to 148.
The names of the directors, the year of their appointment, their independence status and whether they will retire and seek re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, are set out in the table below.
Date of appointment Independent Last Retiring Investec Investec elected and seeking 109 plc Limited re-election in 2007 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 26 Jun 02 06 Oct 86 - 2006 No B Kantor Managing Director 26 Jun 02 08 Jun 87 - 2006 No GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 03 Jul 02 03 Jul 02 - 2004 Yes A Tapnack 01 Jul 02 01 Jul 02 - 2004 Yes Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 94 No 2006 Yes SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2006 Yes GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2004 Yes CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes 2005 No H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 No GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 No fide Jowell 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 89 No 2006 Yes IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2006 Yes Sir C Keswick Senior Independent Director 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2005 No MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 No 2005 No Sir D Prosser 23 Mar 06 23 Mar 06 Yes 2006 No PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2006 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2004 Yes Independence In accordance with the London Combined Code, in excess of half the board excluding the Chairman comprised non-executive directors considered by the board to be independent within the meaning of and with regard to the criteria set out in the London Combined Code and King II.
A summary of the factors the board has taken into account in determining the independence of directors is detailed below.
Corporate governance Chairman The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent.
At the time of his appointment, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients but excluded making day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive and share ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by the board to be independent in accordance with the London Combined Code and King II.
However, the Chairman has continued to enhance his status as a non-executive director through distancing himself from executive responsibilities.
Relationships and associations Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investec's Managing Director.
Fani Titi and Peter Malungani are the Chairmen of Tiso Group Limited and Peu Group Proprietary Limited respectively, companies that have a material relationship with Investec Limited.
This is as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of the Financial Sector Charter in South Africa.
Until recently, Donn Jowell was the Chairman of Jowell Glynn Marais Inc, the South African legal advisors to Investec Limited.
Donn has now joined Werksmans.
The board concluded that as a result of these relationships Ian, Fani, Peter and Donn could not be considered, in terms of the London Combined Code and King II, to be independent.
Although Ian, Fani, Peter and Donn are not independent, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and trust that they will use their independent judgement when making decisions which could possibly impact the organisation as well as our stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams regularly attends, by invitation, certain risk management committees of Investec Limited.
The board considers his attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This allows him to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as a member of the board and Chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees.
The board therefore concluded that Sam retains independence of character and judgement.
110 Tenure The board does not believe that any director has served on the board for a period which could materially interfere with the director's ability to act in Investecs best interests.
The board concluded that Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for more than nine years, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
The board does not believe that any director who has served for more than nine years is not independent.
In the spirit of complying with the highest standards of corporate governance, each such director stands for annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the London Combined Code and King ll, the board is of the view that most of the nonexecutive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and nonexecutive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or has unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board, including: International and operational experience.
Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate.
Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate.
Financial and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience profile of the board is reviewed regularly by the DLC Nomination Committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant board composition from a governance and effectiveness perspective.
Board and directors' performance evaluation The current year's annual evaluation was based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covered areas of the board's processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
Each director completed the evaluation, after which the Chairman conducted individual one-on-one discussions.
The results of the evaluation were collated and reviewed by the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance and reported to the board by the Chairman.
Matters identified during the evaluation, which required attention, were scheduled for appropriate action.
Corporate governance Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, the expected time commitment of non-executive directors, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which the non-executive director is a member.
We have a policy that insures directors against certain liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Induction and training On appointment, directors are provided with an induction programme tailored to their needs.
A programme of formal presentations to the directors on regulatory and governance matters was implemented and, as part of the directors' ongoing development, the Company Secretary liaises with the directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors attend, funded by Investec.
Presentations are made to the board by management of the business and support functions.
During the year, directors attended seminars on matters concerning corporate governance, remuneration policy and IFRS.
Directors have access to the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
All directors have access to Linklaters' Blue Flag Directors' Duties, an online reference and training tool for directors, maintained by Investec plc's legal advisors Linklaters.
Blue Flag comprehensively covers legal and regulatory aspects of directors' duties, including individual conduct, the board and relations with stakeholders.
Independent advice Through the senior independent director, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2007 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors' remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 121 to 138.
111 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out in writing, clearly defined and have board approval.
The Chairman leads the board and is responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that the directors can perform their duties effectively.
Details of the Chairman's external directorships are set out on page 146.
The board does not consider that the Chairman's external commitments interfere with his performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman makes sufficient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a Deputy Chairman.
Senior Independent Director Sir Chips Keswick was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2004.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Company Secretaries Benita Coetsee replaced Selwyn Noik on 1 February 2007 as Company Secretary of Investec Limited and David Miller replaced Richard Vardy on 2 May 2007 as the Company Secretary of Investec plc.
They are responsible for the flow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries, whose appointment and removal are a matter for the board.
Les Penfold is the Global Head of Company Secretarial and co-ordinates and drives our secretarial functions.
Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors.
Details of directors' attendance at board meetings are shown in the table on the following page.
Corporate governance Investec plc and Investec Limited board Number of meetings held Number of meetings Independent during the year attended during the year Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 6 6 - B Kantor Managing Director 6 6 - GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 6 - A Tapnack 6 6 - Non-executive directors H Herman Chairman 6 6 No SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 6 Yes CA Carolus 6 6 Yes H Fukuda OBE 6 5 Yes GMT Howe 6 5 Yes fide Jowell 6 4 No IR Kantor 6 5 No Sir C Keswick Senior Independent Director 6 6 Yes MP Malungani 6 6 No Sir D Prosser 6 6 Yes PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes F Titi 6 6 No Re-election of board members All directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with 112 the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance before re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting are on pages 145 to 148.
Board committees The board is supported by key committees, as follows: DLC Audit Committee Investec plc Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Board Risk Review Committee - Executive Risk Review Forum - Various specialist risk committees and forums as described in the risk management section on pages 71 to 105 DLC Nomination Committee DLC Remuneration Committee DLC Capital Committee These committees have specific terms of reference, appropriately skilled members, independent non-executive director membership, senior management participation and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Audit Committees In terms of our DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc Audit Committee and the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies.
A DLC Audit Committee has also been created to assist the board with matters common to Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Corporate governance Role and responsibilities The responsibilities of the Audit Committees include: Reviewing and making recommendations for the board's approval of our combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published financial reporting documents.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined group's and individual companies' accounting policies and their application.
Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts.
Considering the external audit scope, fees and audit findings.
Reviewing Internal Audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit.
Reviewing non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements.
Implementing measures to maintain effective systems of internal financial control and for reporting non-financial operating data.
We believe that the Audit Committee has the necessary expertise to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The committee's terms of reference are available on our website.
Membership and attendance Details of membership, relevant qualifications and experience as well as attendance at Audit Committee meetings are shown below and on the opposite page.
DLC Audit Committee Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience meetings held meetings during the attended during year the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes FCA CA SA - Sam is a former international partner and South African Managing Partner of Arthur 113 Andersen GFO Alford 4 4 Yes BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - George is a former Head of Private Banking and Personnel at Kleinwort Benson Group and was a senior advisor to the UK Financial Services Authority GMT Howe 4 2 Yes MA Hons - Geoffrey is a former Managing Partner at Clifford Chance LLP and Director and Group General Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd fide Jowell 4 2 No B Com LLB - Donn was previously Chairman of and a consultant to Jowell Glyn & Marais Inc, the South African legal advisors to Investec Limited.
He is now a director of Werksmans Attorneys Sir C Keswick 4 4 Yes Sir Chips is a former Chairman of Hambros Bank Limited and Hambros PLC and former director of Anglo American plc Sir D Prosser 4 4 Yes BSc Hons FIA - Sir David was previously Chief Executive of Legal & General Group PLC and Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes CA SA - Peter was the Managing Director of The Unisec Group Limited Investec plc Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience Audit Committee meetings held meetings during the attended during year the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes See above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes See above GMT Howe 4 4 Yes See above Sir C Keswick 4 2 Yes See above Sir D Prosser 4 4 Yes See above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes See above For an overview of the factors leading the board to conclude that fide Jowell is not independent, see pages 109 and 110.
Corporate governance Investec Limited Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience Audit Committee meetings held meetings during the attended during year the year S E Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes See above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes See above GMT Howe 4 4 Yes See above fide Jowell 4 3 No See above Sir C Keswick 4 2 Yes See above Sir D Prosser 4 4 Yes See above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes See above For an overview of the factors leading the board to conclude that fide Jowell is not independent, see pages 109 and 110. fide Jowell is entitled to attend the Investec plc Audit Committee but is not a formal member of the committee.
Audit Sub-Committees Audit Sub-Committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited have been established to allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business unit.
The members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a matter of practice, at least one non-executive member generally does so.
Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
Non-executive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations 114 and other matters that the relevant Audit Committee considers important and facilitate the timely escalation, response and understanding of risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key in enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums also support and provide important insight to the Audit Committees.
Finally, the forums act as a filter, enabling the Audit Committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
DLC Remuneration Committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration report on page 122.
Membership and attendance Details of membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are shown below.
DLC Remuneration Committee Number of Number of Independent meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year GFO Alford Chairman 6 6 Yes GMT Howe 6 6 Yes Sir C Keswick 6 4 Yes Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
DLC Nomination Committee Role and responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible, among other things, for: Regularly reviewing the board structure, size and composition and making recommendations to the board on any changes that are deemed necessary.
Identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the board to fill board vacancies as and when they arise, as well as putting in place plans for succession, in particular, of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
Making recommendations to the board for the continuation or not in service of a director.
Recommending directors who will be retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election.
Corporate governance Membership and attendance Details of attendance and membership are shown below.
DLC Nomination Committee Number of Number of Independent meetings held meetings during the year attended during the year HS Herman Chairman 2 2 No S E Abrahams 2 2 Yes Sir C Keswick 2 2 Yes Board Risk Review Committee Role and responsibilities The purpose of the committee is to ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec.
The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board.
Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are ratified.
There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk.
The Board Risk Review Committee defines the processes by which internal financial control risk is assumed and monitored.
The Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the Board Risk Review Committee and the board.
These include the Asset and Liability Committees, Group Credit Committees, Group Market Risk Forum, Group Deal Forum, 115 Operational Risk Forums and Group Legal Risk Forum.
Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Non-executive directors SE Abrahams GFO Alford GMT Howe fide Jowell Sir C Keswick PRS Thomas F Titi Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack Meeting frequency Bi-monthly Corporate governance Executive Risk Review Forum Role and responsibilities The Executive Risk Review Forum supplements the Board Risk Review Committee and its purpose is to: Evaluate the most significant risks we face in the ordinary course of business credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal and reputational.
Ensure that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented.
Act as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group.
Ensure the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget.
Provide regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework.
Provide regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advise on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us.
Ensure that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack Senior management B Fried C Daleski 116 RJ Cowley PR Jacobson DM Lawrence B Tapnack M Trollip DM van der Walt RJ Wainwright JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency Every Friday except on Board Risk Review Committee dates DLC Capital Committee Role and responsibilities Our capital management framework see pages 97 to 99 seeks to optimise the use of our capital by determining: The optimal amount of total capital commensurate with our overall risk profile in order to: - Support business strategies, including any inherent growth assumptions.
- Meet targeted credit ratings and regulatory ratios.
- Protect against losses, maintain liquidity and support our capital requirements to cater for future opportunistic acquisitions.
Capital allocation to activities with the most favourable returns and highlighting those activities which are unduly capital intensive.
The most efficient composition of our capital base.
Against this background, the DLC Capital Committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC group's capital requirements and proposals for the issue buy-back of equity and or secondary capital raisings.
Considering, with a view to ultimately approving, internal restructures proposed within the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
Economic capital management, which involves monitoring the capital positions of each business unit and its composition relative to the whole.
In fulfilling this function, the committee reviews the following: - The amount of capital currently used within each business unit.
- Forecasts of the needs, availability and usage of capital.
- Changes, if any, required in the allocation or composition of capital.
- Implications to capital arising out of corporate actions, for example, acquisitions, divestments and internal restructures.
Approving trading capital limits used by the regulated entities in South Africa and the delineation between trading and investment assets acquired held by the group.
Corporate governance Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Non-executive directors SE Abrahams fide Jowell Executive directors of DLC and subsidiary boards GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack B Tapnack Senior management S Burgess R Jacobson L Penfold Meeting frequency Every six weeks Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management, and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 35.
117 Each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly.
Decision making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced pool of talent.
Internal control We have adopted the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005, and continued to embed the principles throughout the group during the year under review.
Cognisance has also been taken of the King ll Code requirements in South Africa.
Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The Board Risk Review Committee and Audit Committee assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the Group Risk Management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The overall system of internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, significant risks we face and was in place for the year under review.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as Group Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
These ongoing processes were in place throughout the year under review.
The process, which includes risk and control identification, is completed and assessed at business unit level.
Each business unit is empowered with the responsibility and accountability for management of its own risk.
Each business unit follows a consistent risk assessment process as contained in the risk assessment framework, which is facilitated by Group Operational Risk Management.
Risks to shareholder value are identified, and controls and mitigants for each risk are identified and evaluated.
The action plans and risk and control issues arising from this process are reviewed regularly at the relevant executive and management committees based at a business unit level.
Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, Group Risk Management and the relevant Audit Committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, ensure that timely corrective actions are taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
Significant risks are reviewed weekly by the Executive Risk Review Forum and monthly by the Board Risk Review Committee.
Material incidents and losses and significant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Audit Committee.
Reports from the Audit Committees, Board Risk Review Committee and Risk and Control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
Corporate governance Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably qualified and that an appropriate segregation exists between duties and independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the Audit Committees, reviewed by Group Risk Management and independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
The directors consider that our system of internal control is appropriately designed to: Provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance of both the integrity and reliability of financial information.
Identify and appropriately mitigate significant risks.
Safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets.
Mitigate risk exposure to fraud and misappropriation.
Support business objectives and sustainability under normal and adverse operating conditions.
Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Risk management The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the system of internal control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation and controls within their businesses.
An independent Group Risk Management division, which is accountable to the board, is responsible for designing and reviewing the process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Executive Risk Review Forum.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 71 to 105.
118 Internal Audit Each significant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk based audit approach is followed and the Audit Committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of Internal Audit report to the Chairmen of the relevant Audit Committees and to the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
For further details on the Internal Audit function, see page 100.
External audit Our external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc.
The independence of the external auditors is recognised and reviewed with the auditors by the Audit Committee each year.
The Audit Committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets and any audit matters arising.
The external auditors attend Audit Committee meetings and have access to the Chairman of each Audit Committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as circular 16 2004 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the period under review.
Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy, which states that: Our external audit firms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the Audit Committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines.
Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year were 5.8 million 2006: 5.5 million, of which 0.4 million 2006: 0.6million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The Compliance function is supported by compliance officers in the business units.
For further details on the Compliance function, see pages 101 to 103.
Corporate governance Regulation and supervision We are subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities, the main ones being the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board.
In terms of the DLC structure, the SARB Banking Supervision Department is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report to regulators and supervisory bodies regularly.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to primary stakeholders, which are defined below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
We also seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities, in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry investment analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
119 As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UK Listing Authority and the JSE Limited and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example, Australia.
The board is committed to adopting the better and or stricter of the existing governance and regulatory standards between the UK and South Africa.
The Investor Relations division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the boards communication and disclosure philosophy.
The processes that we have adopted to ensure that we comply with all public disclosure obligations are set out below: Significant announcements are released directly to the market via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
In terms of our DLC structure, announcements are released virtually simultaneously on all exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed on the Investec website as soon as possible following confirmation of release on the relevant exchanges, but at the very least within 24 hours.
We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information.
We host at least four investor presentations a year: two before we enter a closed period and two on the day we release interim and year end results.
Investor presentations are broadcast live via video conference from our offices in the UK and South Africa.
Stakeholders are notified of these events via the stock exchange news services and are welcome to attend and engage with executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also have the option of using a live telephone conference facility or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via our website.
Occasionally, we are invited to attend investor conferences at which we present on our financial and operational performance.
Regular contact is maintained with major stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations programme, which includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows and presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
The Investor Relations division reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other relevant reports are also circulated to the board.
Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are kept informed of business developments and activities.
Our quarterly magazine, Impact, provides all employees worldwide with information on the latest events within Investec.
Furthermore, we have comprehensive intranet sites in South Africa, the UK and Australia, which keeps employees updated on group developments and topics of interest.
Urgent notices are sent to all staff through our internal email system.
Corporate governance All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to raise issues and participate in discussions on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The meeting enables the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to ask questions in person.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees as well as the Senior Independent Director attend the meeting to respond to relevant questions.
All valid proxy appointments are recorded and counted and, at general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
All resolutions are determined on a poll.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business are released on the stock exchange news services and posted on our website after the meeting.
During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the group Managing Director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe, the USA and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
In March 2007, the Chairman and the non-executive directors hosted a lunch with shareholder representative organisations in the UK, to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
We will continue to engage these bodies, to remain informed of emerging governance issues.
Dealings in securities Dealings in securities are subject to the Personal Account Dealing Policy that has been in operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on regulatory guidance and industry practice and was updated following the introduction of the Security Services Act and the inclusion of the Market Abuse Directive, effective from 1 July 2005.
The policy discourages speculative trading and highlights the conflict of interest in which an employee's personal interest may not conflict in any way with the interest of the Investec group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
120 The Market Abuse Directive requires us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities by all persons discharging management responsibilities and their connected persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
Directors' dealings The Remuneration report, as set out on pages 121 to 138, contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors' dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
All directors' dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the Chairman or, in the Chairman's absence, Sam Abrahams or Sir Chips Keswick.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, the Compliance division and the Chairman.
Values and code of conduct We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics and is continually reinforced.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such, all new employees are invited and strongly encouraged to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Our Organisation Development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, which is available on our intranet.
We continually strive to conduct our business with uncompromising integrity and fairness, so as to promote trust and confidence in the banking industry.
Sustainable business practices We have an acute awareness of the need for longevity and durability, across all our businesses, and an ingrained understanding of the practices that underpin sustainability.
Our triple bottom line approach is documented on pages 139 and 140 and further detail can be found on our website at www.
com grouplinks obr Corporate governance Dividers Front 6 28 07 3:29 PM Page 4 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Remuneration report Composite
