The Group is committed to the principles from any business or other relationships which The Combined Code of corporate governance contained in the could materially interfere with the exercise of Combined Code on Corporate Governance their independent judgement.
They bring to Principles of Good that was issued in 2003 and updated in 2006 the Board a wide range of experience of senior Governance by the Financial Reporting Council.
management in other areas of commerce and industry and represent a source of strong The Board is committed to high standards of independent advice and judgement.
The Corporate Governance and acknowledges the Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a importance of good governance as being in year without the Executive Directors present.
the best interests of the Group, its shareholders and employees.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term of ofce.
The Executive Statement of Compliance Directors have one year service contracts.
In line with the Financial Reporting Councils Details of all payments to Directors are recommendation, the Group has voluntarily included in the Report of the Remuneration adopted the 2006 Combined Code and considers Committee on pages 24 to 29. that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2007 with the provisions One third of the Directors are required to set out in section 1 of the 2003 Combined stand for re-election each year on a rotational Code, except in respect of the independence basis.
New Directors are subject to election at of the Board A3.2.
As a consequence of the first opportunity following appointment the retirement of Mr T R F Stockley as and all names submitted to shareholders for Non-Executive Director on 27 July 2006 and election are accompanied by biographies.
the appointment of Mr A Ball as Executive Director on 27 November 2006, we recognise Board Procedures that with three Executive Directors and three All Directors are equally accountable under Non-Executive Directors including the the law for the proper stewardship of the Chairman, the Board does not fully comply Groups affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors with the Combined Code regarding the have a particular responsibility to ensure that balance of the Board.
However, the Board the strategies proposed by the Executive unanimously believes that the current Directors are fully discussed and critically composition of the Board remains suitable for examined to ensure that they take proper the nature and size of the Group.
We believe account of the best long term interests of the that the collective skills, experience and approach shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers to running the business are appropriate for and the community.
driving the Group forward and achieving the Groups goals.
To enable them to do this, all the Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information Application of the Code and can take independent professional advice The Board has conducted a review of the at the Groups expense at any time should it Groups Corporate Governance practice and be necessary.
All Directors have access to the the following statement describes how the advice and services of the Group Company principles of good governance in section 1 Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring of the Combined Code have been applied.
that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Group The Board Company Secretary is a matter reserved for The Group is controlled through the Board the Board.
Appropriate training is available which currently consists of three Executive and to all Directors on appointment and on an three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical ongoing basis as a consequence of the details of all Directors are given on page 16.
The Board considers that all of the NonThe Board meets 10 times a year.
Individual Executive Directors including the Chairman attendance at Board meetings and Board are independent of management within the Committee meetings is set out in the table meaning of the Combined Code and are free below for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee P T Warry 10 2 5 1 K M Higginson resigned on 30 May 2006 1 n a n a n a J R Murray appointed 30 May 2006 9 n a n a n a G Slark 10 n a n a 1 A Ball appointed 27 November 2006 3 n a n a n a R J Harrison 10 2 5 1 T Osbaldiston 9 2 5 1 T R F Stockley retired on 3 August 2006 3 1 1 0 Number of meetings in the year 10 2 5 1 Non-Executive Directors Where n a appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 19 In addition, there is frequent contact between The Directors assessed the findings of the The Combined Code meetings and Directors visit trading locations appraisal in February 2007 and concurred in order to progress the Groups business.
with the conclusion that the Board members Principles of Good The Board receives full and comprehensive demonstrate commitment and give sound Governance continued financial and operating reports from the guidance and direction to the business and Executive Committee each month.
Board that the Board Committees operate effectively.
meeting papers and business reports are Each Director continues to make an effective circulated before each Board meeting.
contribution to the work of the Board, is well prepared and informed concerning items There is an agreed Schedule of Matters to be considered by the Board, has a good reserved for the Board for collective decision understanding of the Group and retains a making, which has been updated in March strong commitment to the role.
These matters include setting long been put on succession planning and further term Group objectives and the strategies developing the interface with management.
to be employed in achieving them, setting Points raised during the previous years have policies in the areas of health, safety and the been satisfactorily addressed.
environment, recruitment and employment, risk management, treasury and, subject to The Remuneration Committee materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising The Remuneration Committee comprises the of capital, financial commitments, acquisitions Non-Executive Directors only and is chaired and disposals and the prosecution, defence by Mr R J Harrison.
The Remuneration and settlement of litigation.
Committee has access to external research on market data and trends provided by an The Board has delegated to the Group Chief independent experienced consultant.
New Executive responsibility for the development Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who have no and preparation of the business plan for other connection with the Group, continued the Group and annual Group budget for to be the Groups advisers during the year.
As the The report of the Remuneration Committee Senior Executive Director, the Group Chief is shown on pages 24 to 29.
Executive is responsible for all aspects of day to day operational control of the Group and The Committee decides on all aspects of execution of the Group strategy.
The Group the remuneration of the Executive Directors Chief Executive has established and chairs an and the Chairman including basic salaries, Executive Committee whose other members performance related elements short and are the Managing Directors of the Principal long term bonuses, share options and other Operating Businesses, the Group Finance benets.
It advises the Board on matters Director, Function Heads and the Group relating to the remuneration of the Group as Company Secretary to assist him in the a whole such as pay rises, Group wide SAYE performance of his duties.
The Committee schemes, Executive Share Options or grants for meets once a month.
There is a clear division executives other than main Board Directors.
between the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive The Nomination Committee and both have been set out in writing.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and the Group The Terms of Reference for the Board and Chief Executive and is chaired by Mr P T each of its Committees are available on Warry.
Appointments to Executive Director request from the Group Company Secretary, are fully discussed by the Chairman for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and Group Chief Executive with the and are also available on the Groups website Remuneration and Nomination Committees www.
The Business Conduct before a proposal is formally made to the Policy is also available on this website.
Board by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Possible new Non-Executive Board Effectiveness Directors are chosen from a shortlist supplied The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board by external consultants in light of the and its committees focused on a number of requirements of the Groups business and the areas, including those concerned with best need to have a balanced Board.
Recruitment practice based on the principles of the good consultants are used to assist the process.
The evaluation was carried out by the Chairman through a Following the appointment of a new Director, detailed questionnaire and formal appraisals the Chairman, in conjunction with the Group of the individual performance of the NonCompany Secretary and the Group Chief Executive Directors were conducted by the Executive, is responsible for ensuring that Chairman by holding a meeting with each a full, formal and tailored induction to the Director.
All Executive Directors are Group is given.
appraised annually by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Executive The Nomination Committee meets at least is appraised by the Chairman.
The Executive annually and reviews the structure, size and the Non-Executive Directors assess the and composition of the Board and makes performance of the Chairman.
It discusses and gives full consideration to succession planning at both Group level and the THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 20 management level immediately below.
F M Elkins MD of BSS Industrial, Candidates are identied and nominated K E Stevens MD of F & P Wholesale, to ll Group vacancies both Executive and K E Liscombe MD of Buck & Hickman, Non-Executive, as and when they arise.
S Smith Group Human Resources Director, J Jennings Group Property Director, The Audit Committee M R Spalding Group IT Director and The Audit Committee comprises the NonU S Ball Group Company Secretary.
Executive Directors only and has been chaired by Mr T Osbaldiston since his appointment Internal Control on 1 January 2004.
The Board considers that The Board is responsible for the Groups the membership of the Audit Committee as a system of internal control and has reviewed its whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial effectiveness during the year.
The Combined experience to discharge its functions.
Executive Code requires that the Directors review the Directors, external auditors and the internal effectiveness of the Groups system of internal auditors also attend by invitation as required.
control which includes financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and The system of internal control is designed to reviews significant financial reporting issues.
ensure effective and efficient operations and The effectiveness of internal controls and risk compliance with laws and regulations.
In management systems are kept under review establishing this system, the Directors and the Groups whistleblowing policy considered the nature of the Groups business, arrangements are supervised and reviewed.
including the materiality of the risks being It ensures that an adequate, properly run, the likelihood of a loss being incurred resourced and supported internal audit and the costs of control and mitigation of function is in place and monitors and reviews likely losses.
It therefore follows that the its effectiveness.
The effectiveness of the system of internal control can only provide external audit is also reviewed and the reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Committee ensures that recommendations are acted upon by management.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the The external auditors have direct access to the Group was in place from the beginning of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and meet financial year to the date of approval of the with him without management present.
The Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and regularly reviewed by the Board and accords has overall responsibility for monitoring the with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors Groups systems of internal financial control, and the Combined Code produced by the the external and internal reporting processes Turnbull 2005 working party.
and the financial control environment of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the The processes by which the Board review the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness of the internal control system effectiveness, and the independence and include the following: objectivity of the auditors.
To ensure the An established framework of internal independence of the external audit, the financial control which includes a clearly audit partner rotates out every five years.
dened management structure and comprehensive systems of budgeting and  LLP are engaged financial reporting which are reviewed by as the external auditors to the Group.
Details successive levels of management of audit and non audit fees are set out in note Guidelines for capital expenditure which 2 to the accounts on page 39.
Non audit fees include budgets, appraisal and review principally relate to due diligence and procedures and successive authorisation levels taxation advice.
All services performed by Internal financial controls and procedures  LLP are carried for branches are included in branch out in accordance with the requirements of operating manuals the UK Auditing Practices Boards Ethical All trading locations are reviewed regularly Standard 5, relating to non-audit services by the internal audit department and the Audit performed by a companys auditors.
Committee receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis and Executive Committee The Executive Committee receives a The Executive Committee is responsible for monthly summary of financial results and implementing the strategies and policies the Groups published bi-annual financial determined by the Board, managing the information is based on a standardised business and affairs of the Group, prioritising reporting process the allocation of capital, human resources and establishing best management practices.
The The Directors have also reviewed the Executive Committee is also responsible for effectiveness of the system of internal financial monitoring the Divisional Boards performance.
control during the period in conjunction with the work of the Internal Audit Department The Executive Committee currently comprises in relation to the safeguarding of assets, the G Slark Chairman Group Chief Executive, maintenance of proper accounting records J R Murray Group Finance Director, and the reliability of financial information A Ball Executive Director and MD of PTS, used within the Group and for publication.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 21 Investor Relations encourages shareholders to attend its Annual The Combined Code Communication with all shareholders is General Meeting.
The Directors, including given a high priority.
Formal communications the Chairmen of the Committees, are present Principles of Good accounting for the Groups performance and to answer any questions from shareholders.
Governance continued strategy are principally through the Annual The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders Report and Accounts and announcements at least 20 working days before the meeting.
made through the Stock Exchange and at The results of proxy voting by shareholders the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, are disclosed for each separate resolution and corporate information is made available will be posted on the Groups website as well to investors on the Groups website as disclosed upon request from the Group www.
Presentations are made to institutional Mr R J Harrison has held the post of Senior shareholders following the announcement of Independent Director since 27 July 2006 the Groups full year and interim results and and is the Director whom shareholders may regular meetings are held between these contact if they feel their concerns are not investors and the Group Chief Executive and being addressed.
The Chairman attends some of the meetings with investors Going Concern and is available to meet with institutional The Directors have a reasonable expectation investors upon request.
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence All members of the Board, including for the foreseeable future and accordingly the the Non-Executive Directors, receive a going concern basis continues to be adopted in report on any significant discussions with preparing the accounts.
In forming this view, the shareholders and the feedback that follows Directors have reviewed the Companys and the the half yearly presentations to investment Groups budgets for the current year and outline analysts and shareholders.
plans for future periods including capital expenditure plans and cash ow forecasts.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting and the Board THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 22
