JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 38 Corporate Governance financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys Compliance business and brief biographical details of each Director are set The Company is committed to high standards of corporate out on page 31. governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 43, indicates how the A review of Board composition and balance is included as Company has applied the principles of good governance of part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the details of which may be found below.
The Board has Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate considered whether a senior independent director should be Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the appointed and has concluded that, as the Board comprises Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary at for investment trusts.
However, the Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot corporate governance and considers that the Company has be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, Tenure and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Role of the Board Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
A management agreement between the Company and Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, the Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not administrative, and some marketing services.
All other believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal Director from seeking re-election but, when making a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has recommendation, the Board will take into account the been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, including the of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the Companys Articles of Association require that Directors capital structure, appointment and removal of third party stand for re-election at least every three years.
Any Director service providers, review of key investment and financial data who has served for a period of more than nine years will and the Companys corporate governance and risk control stand for annual re-election thereafter.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely available for inspection on request at the Companys information is provided to the Board to enable it to function registered office and at the AGM.
effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, it confirms that Andrew Murison and Alexander Zagoreos There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take who retire by rotation at this years AGM, continue to be independent professional advice if necessary and at the effective Directors and demonstrate commitment to their Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that roles, and the Board recommends their re-election.
every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for Meetings and Committees ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Details of membership of committees are shown with the Directors profiles on page 31.
Directors who are not Board Composition members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of Chairman.
whom are regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The Directors The table below details the number of Board and Committee have a breadth of investment knowledge, business and meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there T H E C O M P A N Y 39 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued were five full Board meetings, including a private meeting of Audit Committee the Directors to evaluate the Manager, and a separate meeting The Audit Committee, chaired by Robin Faber and whose devoted to strategy.
There were also a number of ad hoc membership is set out on page 31, meets at least twice each Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and one year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they meeting of the Nomination Committee during the year.
have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the meetings meetings meetings Manager in relation to the interim and annual accounts and Director attended attended attended the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It Andrew Murison 5 2 1 reviews the terms of the management agreement and Robin Faber 5 2 1 examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Stephen Russell 5 2 1 systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Ferdinand Verdonck 5 2 1 Alexander Zagoreos 5 2 1 department and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Training and Appraisal objectivity of the external auditors: in the Directors opinion, On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary the auditors are independent.
Representatives of the provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, Companys auditors attend the Committee meeting at which regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory the draft annual report and accounts is considered.
The requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other control is set out below.
seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly their The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for the Manager, its own performance and of that of its inspection at the Companys registered office, on the committees and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn Companys website and at the Companys Annual General up by the Board, are completed by each Director.
responses are collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Relations with Shareholders Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee leads The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full a whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that understanding of the Companys activities and performance of its committees.
and reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
Board Committees This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the Nomination Committee London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Andrew Murison, Companys shares.
consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
Directors and representatives of the Managers are available in A variety of sources, including the use of external search person to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment candidates is considered.
Managers who review the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys brokers, the Investment Managers The Committee undertakes an annual performance and JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of their devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves work of the Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors available as and when required to address shareholder fees and makes recommendations to the Board as and when queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the appropriate.
Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 64.
T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 40 The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Compliance department which regularly monitors time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of compliance with FSA rules.
Shareholders wishing to raise Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 64.
Details of the Proxy voting position on each resolution will be The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system General Meeting.
of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key Internal Control operating controls of the Managers and its associates as The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, follows: to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the internal control and to report to shareholders that they have terms of the management agreement and receives regular done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: Board has identified as including business, financial, the Board reviews the report on the internal controls and operational, compliance and risk management.
the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of which is itself independently reviewed: and internal control which is designed to safeguard the the Directors review every six months an independent Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and report on the internal controls and the operations of ensure that financial information used within the business, or JPMAM.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide confirms that in accordance with the Turnball guidance, it has reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of mis-statement or loss.
internal control for the year ended 31st March 2007, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted controls established by them, to ensure they meet the by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have request, or can be downloaded from www.
com: an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment internal audit department of JPMAM.
The key elements performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by corporate governance principles and practices of the companies the Board of key investment and financial data, including in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the transactions and performance comparisons.
Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage agreement.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable Management Systems The Managers system of internal judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our control includes organisational agreements which clearly clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control called by companies in which we are invested.
These are monitored by JPMAMs T H E C O M P A N Y 41 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
Corporate Social Responsibility The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the Board: We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, can have an economic impact and that any company run in the long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment managers take these factors into account as part of any investment decision.
