JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 22 Corporate Governance A review of Board composition and balance is included as Compliance part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board.
The The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Board has considered whether a senior independent director governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of should be appointed and has concluded that, as the Board Directors Responsibilities on page 26, indicates how the consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is Company has applied the principles of good governance of unnecessary.
the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Tenure Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of for investment trusts.
Association, it is required that they be re-elected by The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run Corporate Governance and considers that the Company has for a term of three years.
Subject to the performance complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree whether Code, other than in respect of the provision relating to the it is appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
appointment of a senior independent director, and the AIC Any Director who has served for a period of more than ten Code throughout the year under review.
years will submit himself for annual re-election thereafter.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set Role of the Board out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are A management agreement between the Company and available for inspection on request at the Companys JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has registered office and at the AGM.
This includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, The Board confirms that Sandy Nairn and Hamish Leslie administration, and some marketing services.
All other Melville continue to be effective Directors and demonstrate matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal commitment to their role and therefore recommends their reschedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has election at the forthcoming AGM.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its Meetings and Committees future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to capital structure, appointment and removal of third party committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown service providers, review of key investment and financial data with Directors profiles on page 16.
Directors who are not and the Companys corporate governance and risk control members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the arrangements.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and The table below details the number of Board, Audit additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely Committee and Nomination Committee meetings attended information is provided to the Board to enable it to function by each Director.
During the year there were four Board effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and one responsibilities.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Director Board Audit Nomination independent professional advice if necessary and at the Meetings Committee Committee Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that Attended Meetings Meetings every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Attended Attended Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are complied Hamish Leslie Melville 4 2 1 with and that Board procedures are followed.
Nicholas Berry 42 1 1 Richard Hambro 1 n a n a Board Composition Simon Keswick 4 2 1 The Board consists of eight non-executive Directors, all of Sandy Nairn 310 whom are regarded by the Board as independent, including Charles Peel 4 1 1 the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, Lord Rothermere 1 0 1 2 business and financial skills and experience relevant to the Ian Russell n a n a n a Companys business and brief biographical details of each 1 Appointed a Director on 1st October 2006.
Director are set out on page 16.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 23 systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Training and Appraisal department and reviews the scope and results of the external On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter objectivity of the external auditors.
In order to safeguard the regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory Auditors objectivity and independence, non-audit services requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
are carried out through a partner other than the audit Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other engagement partner.
Representatives of the Companys seminars covering issues and developments relevant to auditors attend the Committee meeting at which the draft investment trusts.
annual report and accounts are considered.
The Directors The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the Manager, its statement on the Companys system of internal control is set own performance and that of its committees and individual out on page 24.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and another Director leads the evaluation of the Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the have written terms of reference which define clearly their Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and Board Committees at the AGM.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Relations with Shareholders Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at least The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full of skills to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and understanding of the Companys activities and performance propose suitable candidates when necessary for appointment.
and reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of External search consultants were not used in connection with the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
the appointment of the two Directors during the year.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the The Committee undertakes an annual performance Companys shares.
evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee also attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the reviews Directors fees and makes recommendations to the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Board as and when appropriate.
person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Managers Audit Committee who review the Companys performance.
During the year the The Audit Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, Companys brokers and the Investment Managers hold consists of all the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are The members of the Committee consider that they have the made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of make themselves available as and when required to address the Committee.
Ian Russell will become Chairman of the shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through Audit Committee with effect from 17th May 2007. the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 43.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in management in relation to the interim and annual accounts time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise reviews the terms of the management agreement and questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 43.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 24 Corporate Governance continued The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Internal Control Companys system of internal control by monitoring the The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of its associates as follows: internal control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the Board has identified as including business, financial, terms of the management agreement and receives regular operational, compliance and risk management.
reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of the Board reviews the report on the internal controls and internal control which is designed to safeguard the the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and which is itself independently reviewed: and ensure that financial information used within the business, or the Directors review on a regular basis an independent published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be report on the internal controls and the operations of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to JPMAM.
achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board mis-statement or loss.
confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st Since investment management, custody of assets and all January 2007, and to the date of approval of this Annual administrative services are provided to the Company by Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control mainly consists of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Management Systems The Managers system of internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
