Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Committee believes that given the external auditors detailed This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and accounting set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial policies and the importance of carrying out detailed due diligence as Reporting Council the Code have been applied by the Company part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for this additional work during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Company confirms to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
The Committees terms it has complied throughout 2007 with the provisions of the Code.
of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
The Board Remuneration Committee The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent nonother executive directors and five non-executive directors who have executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
While neither wide experience and are considered by both the Board and the criteria the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Chief set out in the Code to be independent.
One of these, Mr J F Harris, Executive, Mr M J Roney, are members of the Committee, they has been designated as the senior independent director.
None of the normally attend meetings except when the Committee is considering Companys non-executive directors had any previous connection with matters concerning themselves.
Further details of the Remuneration the Company or its executive directors on appointment to the Board.
Committee, the Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 16 of the are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 60.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Information relating The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the to the conduct of Board meetings and the procedures implemented to Companys website.
ensure that the Board retains overall control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues are set out in Nomination Committee the internal control section below and in the Financial Review on pages The Nomination Committee comprises Mr A J Habgood, who chairs 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
the Committee, and two independent non-executive directors, The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Mr J F Harris and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as necessary which comply with the provisions of the Code.
The Company has a to enable it to make recommendations to the Board on new formal performance evaluation process for the Board, its Committees appointments of executive and non-executive directors.
An external and individual directors overseen by the Chairman, Mr A J Habgood.
search consultancy is retained by the Company to assess potential This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and individual candidates to be considered as prospective non-executive directors discussions with, each director.
Led by Mr J F Harris, the senior and, when appropriate, executive directors.
Candidates are then independent director, the non-executive directors also meet without interviewed by members of the Committee before an appropriate the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
These recommendation is made to the Board.
On joining the Board, new processes were carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Chairman directors are given an induction into the business of the Company periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the and training as necessary.
The terms of reference of the Committee executive directors present.
Finally, the Chief Executive, Mr M J Roney, are set out on the Companys website.
annually presents a management succession plan which is discussed with the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Detailed information Meetings attendance concerning the directors remuneration is given in the Directors The following table shows the attendance in 2007 of directors at Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 60.
Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which they are members: Audit Committee Audit Remuneration Nomination The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive Board Committee Committee Committee directors and is chaired by Mr J F Harris who is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While neither Number of meetings 8 3 5 2 the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Finance A J Habgood 8 2 Director, Mr B M May, are members of the Committee, they attend M J Roney 8 meetings of the Committee by invitation.
It receives and considers J F Harris 8 3 5 2 reports from the external auditors and the internal audit function, C A Banks 7 3 5 2 monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal U Wolters 8 3 5 announcements relating to the Companys financial performance P L Larmon 8 and also reviews the Companys internal controls and arrangements B M May 8 by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible P W Johnson 8 2 5 improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
During D J R Sleath 1 the year the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of both the external auditors and the internal audit function following completion of detailed Mr D J R Sleath was appointed as a director on 1 September 2007 questionnaires by both the Board and senior management within and attended one of the two Board meetings held between that date the Company.
The Committee also has responsibility for making and the end of the year.
There were no meetings of the Audit and recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of the Remuneration Committees between the date he was appointed external auditors and for approving the remuneration and terms of a member of such Committees and the end of the year.
The Committee reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors perform, Relations with shareholders including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that the objectivity The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with and independence of the external auditors is not compromised.
Such the interim results announced normally at the end of August and non-audit work principally comprises further assurance services the preliminary results announced normally at the end of February.
relating to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of In addition, commencing in 2008, the Company will also publish two acquisitions and disposals of businesses and tax services.
interim management statements a year as required by the Listing Rules.
06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board and accurate management information relating to the operation of the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication the Groups businesses: and include presentations of the interim and preliminary results.
The a detailed procedures manual covering treasury operations.
Chairman and the senior independent director and the other nonexecutive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the request and the Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions effectiveness of the internal control system are listed below: relating to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 central management holds regular meetings with business area working days before the Meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged to management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask questions including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the at the Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors business areas and the policies and procedures by which these informally.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on risks are managed: the proxy form and the level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive and the if any, are announced to the meeting following a vote by a show of Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per hands.
The details of the proxies lodged are also publicly announced month and reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business and placed on the Companys website.
The Board also periodically area meetings on internal control issues: reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and surveys the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys own brokers.
discussions on internal control issues which ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: Internal control The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
fraud risk assessment: However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks to the Group.
The Board confirms that such procedures have the internal audit department periodically reviews individual been in place for the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve date of approval of these financial statements and have been reviewed controls and follows up to ensure that management implement the during the year.
The internal audit departments work is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally reported to Group and business area management as well as adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to to the Audit Committee: it for decision.
These include the approval of the annual and interim results of the Company, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, every six months the Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr J F larger capital expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, Harris, the senior independent non-executive director, reviews the material increases to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and findings of the external and internal auditors and approves the future the terms of reference for the Board Committees.
This ensures that the work plans of the internal audit function: directors maintain overall control over all significant strategic, financial, regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess operational and compliance issues.
The Board has delegated to the risks throughout the Group: management the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee sets relevant operates.
The principal features of this system include: policies and practices and monitors their implementation: a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined against objectives established by each business area are periodically lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: carried out: and clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually and acquisitions: monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: system of internal control in operation during 2007. formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the and whistleblowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the fair dealing: system of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit a well-established consolidation and reporting system for the opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
statutory accounts and monthly management accounts:
