6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board supports the principles advocated by the Combined At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will Board appointments The Committees full terms of reference were reviewed and approved Code on Corporate Governance the Code published in July 2003 arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the during the year and are available on the Companys website and, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
com and from the Company upon request.
Listing Authority, sets out below its report on the application of those The Chairman maintained regular contact and met with the subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee is responsible for: principles for the year under review.
Following the demerger from Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors following their appointment and thereafter at least once every three GUS in December 2005 and during the year a number of reviews during the year although a formal meeting was not held.
years in line with the Companys Articles of Association and provision monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and and changes to the governance structure of the Group took place A.
The biographical details of those directors any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter to ensure compliance with the Code.
Unless otherwise stated below seeking election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk reserved for the Board as a whole.
and in the Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters, Meeting can be found on page 51 of this Annual Report.
the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Directors development of the Code throughout the year.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
These were set out in audit function.
On appointment, directors are furnished with an induction pack of writing and agreed by the Board during the year.
The Chairman is assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the The Board information, which includes key Group policies, guidance notes and responsible for leading the Board in reviewing the Groups strategy external auditors.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the success information on corporate governance.
The Group also ensures that and monitoring high-level progress.
The day-to-day business developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the of the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, management each director undergoes an induction programme whereby they will of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer.
external auditors for the supply of non-audit services.
performance, governance and internal control.
As at the date visit key sites and meet members of the management team following Philip Bowman is the Senior Independent Director.
making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment of this report, the Board has eight members: the Chairman, the their appointment.
and removal of the external auditors and approving their Vice-Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer On 1 July 2006, Angela Ahrendts was appointed Chief Executive Board evaluation remuneration and terms of engagement.
and four independent non-executive directors.
The Board meets at Officer of the Company, having served as an executive director since Following the demerger from GUS in December 2005 and the reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise least five times a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
Rose Marie Bravo ceased to serve as the Chief changes to senior management, an external review of the Board concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial During the year under review the Board held five meetings, with Executive of the Company on 1 July 2006 and was appointed and its committees was carried out during the year by an external reporting and other matters.
one meeting being held overseas.
The Board considers that it Vice-Chairman on that date.
The Board considered that, given her facilitator by way of interviews.
The findings of the review to assess met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their knowledge of the Groups affairs and her experience and expertise, The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, were reviewed duties effectively.
it remained desirable for the Group to retain the services of Rose Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent by the directors.
Following that review, a number of changes to the Marie Bravo.
and relevant financial experience given the nature of the senior During the year, the Board reviewed the schedule of matters Board and the committees have been made.
management positions previously held by Philip Bowman and reserved to it for decision and approval which include, but are Guy Peyrelongue, who was appointed a non-executive director at In addition, the matters reserved for the Board and terms of David Tyler see biographical details on page 51. not limited to: the time of the IPO, retired on 31 March 2007.
Ian Carter joined the reference of its committees were reviewed and updated in light Board as a non-executive director on 1 April 2007.
As Ian Carters The Committee met three times during the year, with both the the approval of financial statements of best practice and guidance.
appointment was made subsequent to the date of the 2006 Annual external auditors and a representative of the Groups internal audit any interim dividend and the recommendation of the General Meeting, he will offer himself for election at this years Annual Committees department present.
The attendance record of Committee members final dividend General Meeting.
The Board is supported by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination is recorded in the table on page 56. the Groups business strategy committees.
annual budget and operating plans Given the Group has operated independently of GUS since the IPO The Committee is responsible for the review and monitoring of the major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments in 2002 and fully demerged from GUS in 2005, the Board considers The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage third-party effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk the systems of corporate governance, internal control and John Peace and David Tyler to be independent since the former consultants and independent professional advisers and can call management systems.
During the year, the Committee reviewed risk management shareholder relationship does not affect their judgement.
If there are upon other resources of the Group to assist them in developing their the Groups internal audit plan and approved the internal audit plan specific matters relating to the Groups previous relationship with respective roles.
for the financial year to 31 March 2008.
In addition, the Committee The Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner GUS that may cause a conflict of interest to arise, in accordance reviewed the adequacy of the whistle-blowing arrangements in with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to In addition to the relevant committee members and the Company with the Companys Articles of Association, the relevant director place to enable employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns effectively discharge its duties.
In addition, directors are also supplied Secretary, external advisers and, on occasion, other directors attend will not participate in the determination of the matter concerned.
The Committee is satisfied that such arrangements with a monthly management report, which provides information on committee meetings but only at the invitation of the chairmen of remain appropriate.
operational and financial performance and the Groups business John Peace, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter, Stephanie George and the committees.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, David Tyler are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness Audit Committee independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups management and free from any business relationship which could of the external audit process and the qualification, expertise, The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
resources and independence of the external auditors.
The directors: and services of the Company Secretary.
During the year under review the majority of the Board excluding Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of the Chairman comprised independent non-executive directors.
Philip Bowman Chairman engagement for the financial year to 31 March 2007 and has As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with Biographical details of each of the directors and details of their Ian Carter appointed 18 May 2007 recommended to the Board that it propose to shareholders that information concerning major developments affecting their roles and membership of the Boards committees are set out on page 51.
Stephanie George appointed 19 May 2006  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the Groups David Tyler external auditor.
worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations from local management.
In order to ensure that the Group and the Board are able to draw from an appropriate balance of skills and experience, the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee further details of which are provided below, include the responsibility for reviewing succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
54 55 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CONTINUED The Committee monitors the types of non-audit work that are Board and committee attendance Guy Peyrelongue was unable to attend the 2006 Annual General The Risk Committee of executive management meets formally at undertaken by the external auditors to ensure that their objectivity The attendance of the individual directors at Board and committee Meeting.
It is the intention that all directors will attend the forthcoming least every six months to re-evaluate risk and to consider the work and independence is not compromised.
Any proposed non-audit meetings during the financial year was as follows: Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer shareholders of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance team.
During the year the assignments require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, questions.
In keeping with the Companys usual practice, voting on Committee met on three occasions.
The Director of Audit and Risk Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee and regular reports are also provided to the Committee detailing each of the resolutions to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Assurance attends these meetings.
Annual General Meeting will be conducted by a poll.
The level of Total number of meetings The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering proxies lodged on each resolution and the number of proxy votes Details of the fees paid to the external auditor during the financial during the financial year 5331 operational, financial, compliance and other risks.
for, against and withheld on each resolution will be made available year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
John Peace Chairman 5 n a 3 1 at the Annual General Meeting on request and will be published Control environment and control activities 1 Angela Ahrendts 5 n a n a n a Stephanie George was appointed as a member of the Audit on the Companys website as soon as reasonably practicable.
The Group consists of a number of business units, each with its own 2 Philip Bowman 5221 Committee on 19 May 2006.
Following her appointment the management structure which forms part of the overall management Rose Marie Bravo 5 n a n a 1 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR membership of the Committee complied with the Code.
The senior executives of these units report Stacey Cartwright 5 n a n a n a Details on the Companys approach to CSR are given on pages 61 to the executive directors.
1 3 Remuneration Committee Stephanie George 523 n a to 64.
2 4 The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages Guy Peyrelongue 3 n a21 The Group has established procedures for the delegation of Accountability and audit 1 5 65 to 73.
David Tyler 531 n a authorities for matters that are considered significant, either because The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure that approval is Nomination Committee understandable assessment of the Companys position and 1 Angela Ahrendts, Stephanie George and David Tyler were appointed members considered at an appropriate level.
The Nomination Committee comprises: prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the of the Nomination Committee on 23 March 2007, following a review of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 74, which includes The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies membership to ensure that the majority of the members are independent John Peace Chairman non-executive directors.
a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups and procedures which are either already laid down or are being Angela Ahrendts appointed 23 March 2007 2 Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive papers for status as a going concern, and to the Report of the Auditors on established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and Philip Bowman consideration and are given the opportunity to submit comments prior to the page 75 which includes a statement by the auditors about their procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, meeting, and if necessary follow up with the relevant Chairman on the decisions Rose Marie Bravo reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility compliance with legislation and physical security.
Ian Carter appointed 18 May 2007 3 to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends Stephanie George was appointed a member of the Audit Committee on Stephanie George appointed 23 March 2007 The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the 19 May 2006.
She has attended all committee meetings since her appointment.
to interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to Guy Peyrelongue retired 31 March 2007 risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a 4 Guy Peyrelongue resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
David Tyler appointed 23 March 2007 framework of internal control and the use of third-party services 23 March 2007.
He resigned as a director of the Company on 31 March 2007.
5 Internal control to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches David Tyler was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on The Nomination Committee met once during the year under review.
He has attended all committee meetings since his appointment.
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups are taken, such as insurance.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Relations with shareholders Information and communication recommending appointments or renewal of appointments to Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, the Board.
The procedure for appointments is set out in its terms risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only communications with its shareholders and does this through focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an of reference, which were reviewed and updated during the year.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement its Annual and Interim Reports, quarterly trading updates and the appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results supported by The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee can be or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief commentary and performance measures is provided to the Board found on the Companys website www.
com key procedures, which have been established to provide internal Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders each month.
The performance measures are subject to review and are available from the Company on request.
As part of the process that the Group has in place to review and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of the effectiveness of the internal control system there are procedures and interim results: these presentations are made available on Angela Ahrendts, Stephanie George and David Tyler were appointed business performance.
designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and the Companys website.
The Company communicates with its as members of the Nomination Committee in March 2007.
Following in the case of those categorised by the Board as significant, A summary of the key business risks and relevant control measures institutional investors frequently and regularly through a combination the appointment of Stephanie George and David Tyler the membership procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit Committee at of formal and informal meetings, participation at investor conferences of the Nomination Committee complied with the Code.
the end of the financial year.
The Audit Committee meets with both and ad-hoc briefings with management.
The Board is kept abreast As part of the process of succession planning, an independent external and internal auditors.
of the views of major shareholders by briefings from the Companys In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal external search consultant was engaged to identify a potential Senior Vice-President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Analysts control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that Monitoring candidate for the position of non-executive director.
Following notes and brokers briefings are also used to achieve a greater there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of a review of the potential candidates identified, the Committee understanding of investors views.
The non-executive directors, the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating internal control within the Group.
These include management review, recommended the appointment of Ian Carter to the Board.
Ian Carter including the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in management confirmations of compliance with standards and was formally appointed to the Board on 1 April 2007 and appointed major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should place throughout the year under review and up to the date of procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
a member of the Nomination Committee on 18 May 2007. a meeting be requested.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process will be The Internal Audit department is responsible for reporting to the regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with the 2006 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least 20 Revised Turnbull Guidance.
working days before the Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows: Risk assessment The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
56 57 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
