qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 58 Report of the Audit Committee Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee financial dynamics and risks.
New Audit Committee members also The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonmeet some of the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes executive directors of Legal & General Group Plc.
It is a attendance at formal conferences, internal Company seminars Committee of the Board established pursuant to Article 113 of the and briefings by external advisers.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters understanding of the following areas: indicated by the Combined Code, except the oversight of the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial compliance risks, including adherence to the Financial Services reporting including the applicable accounting standards and and Markets Act 2000, which is the direct responsibility of the statements of recommended practice: Board.
The Group Risk & Compliance Committee, which reports key aspects of the Companys operations and risk control to the Group Board and whose minutes are copied to the Audit framework including corporate policies, company financing, Committee, supervises the Groups Risk Framework and therefore products and systems of internal control: considers all risks including compliance risk.
The terms of matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and and key figures: are then referred to the Board for approval.
the principles of, and developments in, company law, sectorThe primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: Board of Directors in fulfiling its responsibilities relating to: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: external financial reporting and associated announcements: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: the independence of the Groups external auditor: environmental and social responsibility best practices: and the resourcing, plans and overall effectiveness of the internal current issues pertaining to the above areas.
audit department: the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: and Meetings the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and Governance.
has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved meetings to the Board, and the Board receives the minutes of all by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow Committee meetings.
members: each Audit Committee member has the right to require The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Company reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
documents and information, as well as to employees of the The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group Company and the external auditor.
Director Finance, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief The members of the Audit Committee are: Internal Auditor, Group Actuary and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of its meetings in full, although it Date of appointment reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Henry Staunton 26 July 2004 and appointed Chairman Other senior management are invited to present such reports as on 27 April 2005 are required for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
Frances Heaton 14 November 2001 Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties James Strachan 21 January 2004 In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit Committee Rudy Markham 15 May 2007 receives and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with senior Membership of the Audit Committee is reviewed by the representatives of the external auditor and the independent Chairman of the Committee, Henry Staunton, and the Group actuaries.
Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit Committee, at The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its regular intervals.
responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and Where necessary, they will recommend new appointments to associated announcements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the the Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to the interim and annual financial statements, together with the Board.
Appointments are for a period of three years and are associated Stock Exchange announcements, having received extendible by no more than two additional three year periods.
information on: The Audit Committee is normally comprised of four independent the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the non-executive directors, with a minimum of three members at any Groups accounts: time.
changes proposed to those principles, policies and practices: The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one significant accounting issues: financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative current actuarial issues: Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently the Audit the level of insurance provisions and reserves: Committee Chairman fulfils this requirement.
litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: and All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially potential tax contingencies and the Groups compliance with literate and to have relevant corporate finance experience.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction its responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of the control environment and the Groups compliance with the reference and expected time commitment by members: and an Combined Code.
To fulfil these duties, the Audit Committee overview of the Groups business, including the main business and reviewed: 58 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance 23148 p044-060.
qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 59 the report entitled Directors view on Internal Controls, the overall work plan for the forthcoming year presented by the submitted to the Audit Committee by the Group Risk & external auditor: Compliance Committee, which sets out the framework of risk the fee proposal presented by the external auditor: management, control monitoring, and any control issues that the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and have arisen: their resolution: the minutes of the Group Risk & Compliance Committee the key accounting and audit judgements: meetings during 2007: the levels of errors identified during the audit: and the annual Internal Control Report for 2006 presented by the the recommendations made by the external auditor in the external auditor: management letter, entitled The Internal Control Report, and Internal Audit reports on key audit areas and significant control the adequacy of managements response.
environment deficiencies: and reports on frauds perpetrated against the Group and current Internal Audit Function fraud trends.
The Audit Committee is committed to supporting Internal Audit and maintaining its ongoing relationship with the department to The Audit Committee Chairman reports back to the Audit enable Internal Audit to assist the Audit Committee to fulfil its Committee on the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings statutory responsibilities in relation to the adequacy and which he attends.
effectiveness of the control environment and the Groups During the year the Audit Committee undertook a formal review compliance with the Combined Code.
of its own effectiveness and is satisfied that it had been operating The Audit Committee is also required to assist the Board to fulfil as an effective Audit Committee meeting all applicable legal and its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing, plans regulatory requirements.
These reviews are undertaken annually.
and overall effectiveness of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil all of these responsibilities, the Audit Committee External Audit reviewed: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Internal Audits plans for 2007 and its achievement of the implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external planned activity: audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the the results of key audits and other significant findings, independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day of resolution: responsibility to the Group Director Finance.
The policy states statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and and timeliness of reporting: and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by primary contact.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of The Groups Public Interest Disclosure Policy the non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be Whistleblowing Policy sets out arrangements for employees, allowed to provide to the Group.
The policy requires precontractors and third parties to raise concerns or complaints confirmation by the Audit Committee of any non-audit work regarding accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues subject to fide minimis levels.
and related matters with relevant line management or senior To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the Group managers.
These are escalated to the Group Chief Internal external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: Auditor GCIA in confidence, for reporting to the Audit the changes in key external audit staff in the plan for the current Committee as appropriate.
year presented by the external auditor: The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit auditors and with the GCIA after Audit Committee meetings to relationship: review key issues within their spheres of interest and responsibility a report identifying the number of former external audit staff now as considered necessary.
employed by the Group and their positions within the Group: The GCIA reports functionally to the Audit Committee and a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements administratively to the Group Director Finance.
The GCIA has to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and a private meeting with the Audit Committee Chairman at least the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external twice during the course of the year and has regular monthly auditor, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the meetings with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Director provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Finance where key risk and control issues are discussed.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Committee reviewed: AGM to answer questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the the report on the Audit Committees activities, matters within the plan undertaken by the external auditor: scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities and any significant the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in matters brought to the Audit Committees attention by the handling the key accounting and audit judgements: and external auditor.
the content of the Internal Control Report presented by the The Corporate Governance pages of the Legal & General external auditor.
website provide supplementary information including the terms of To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit reference for the Audit Committee and the Groups policy on process, the Audit Committee reviewed: external audit.
the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as set out in the engagement letter for the forthcoming year from the external auditor: www.
