qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 44 Corporate Governance The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is committed to high Responsibilities The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between standards of corporate governance.
It supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 the Code, which sets the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and directors are clearly standards of good practice for UK listed companies.
This section of the Annual Report, together with the Directors defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Report, the Remuneration Report and the Nominations Committee Report, explains how Legal & General complies with the principles The Chairman, Sir Rob Margetts, is responsible for leadership and relevant provisions of the Code.
of the Board and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
As part of its regular evaluation, the Board considers The Board the Chairmans availability and his capacity to undertake his role, The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is collectively responsible against the background of his other commitments.
The Board for determining the strategic direction of the Group and for remains satisfied that the Chairman continues to be able to fulfil ensuring that Legal & General meets its obligations to the normal time commitments required of his role and has the shareholders.
During 2007, the Board met nine times and also personal commitment and capacity to make himself available held a strategy event at an offsite location.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day reserved to it, including decisions on strategic issues, capital management of the Group and implementation of the strategy expenditure and material contracts.
In addition, the Board approved by the Board.
The Board delegates responsibility to the regularly reviews major projects, considers operating and financial Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the executive directors issues and monitors performance against plan.
As well as dealing and heads of specialist functions.
The Group Chief Executive with the formal business of the Board, at each meeting, directors chairs the Executive Committee formerly the Management receive a detailed review from a senior manager of a key Committee of which all executive directors are members.
This is designed not only to help The International & Strategy Director: the Managing Director, non-executive directors develop a thorough understanding of key With-profits: the Chief Executive Officer, Investments: the Strategy issues facing Legal & General but also to help them build working Director and the Group Secretary are all in regular attendance.
relationships with senior managers below Board level.
Sir David Walker is the Vice Chairman and senior independent The Chairman and non-executives meet formally at least director.
He also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
As senior twice a year without executive directors being present.
independent director, Sir David Walker is available to shareholders The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Secretary, if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through the usual ensures that the Board receives the information it needs to channels.
The Group Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring Board Composition and Structure good information flows within the Board.
All directors have access As at 31 December 2007, the Board comprised 11 directors.
to the advice and services of the Group Secretary, as well as to Biographies of all directors currently holding office appear on external advice, as required, at the expense of the Group.
The Board consists of a part-time non-executive Chairman, four Board Evaluation executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Throughout The Board and its directors participate in an evaluation process, 2007, the majority of directors were non-executive, all of whom the aim of which is to assess the effectiveness of the Boards with the exception of the Chairman, the Board has determined collective performance as well as the contributions of individual to be independent in both character and judgement.
diverse business experience and wide range of skills enable For 2007 8, the Board evaluation process was conducted by the the non-executive directors to make a significant contribution Chairman and took the form of questionnaires and interviews with at meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Overall, there was a high level of satisfaction with the The remuneration of the non-executive directors consists only way in which the Board functions.
A summary of the key findings of fees: they do not participate in any performance-related pay was provided to the Board by the Chairman and an action plan arrangements.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the was subsequently agreed and implemented.
Feedback on non-executive directors are available for inspection at the individual performance was delivered to directors by the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting Chairman.
In the case of the Chairman, feedback was delivered AGM.
Attendance records for all directors who have held office by the senior independent director.
during the year appear on Board Attendance.
A separate evaluation is carried out to assess the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
2007 Board Changes In addition to the Board evaluation, executive directors are The following changes to the composition of the Board took place subject to an annual appraisal and to regular review of their during 2007: performance by the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman Beverley Hodson retired as a non-executive director at the AGM conducts the annual appraisal, and regularly reviews the on 16 May 2007 performance, of the Group Chief Executive.
Robin Phipps, Group Executive Director, UK, retired from Legal & General on 13 July 2007.
Appointments to the Board The above changes have been achieved without undue Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as disruption to the business.
a whole on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
44 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance 23148 p044-060.
qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 45 All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control AGM after their appointment and, thereafter, are subject to re-election once every three years.
The removal and appointment systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of of the Group Secretary are reserved to the Board.
the executive directors and senior management.
The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit Induction and Training New directors participate in a formal induction programme Committee, the GRCC and the boards of subsidiary companies.
The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance of tailored to their individual needs.
The induction programme is its businesses compared with their one year plans, as well as other designed to give directors an understanding of the Group, its key performance indicators.
business and the markets in which it operates.
Introductory visits Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly are arranged to Company sites and with key suppliers and defined.
The Groups control policies and procedures are published stakeholders.
All directors are required to maintain and develop on a dedicated intranet site, which is regularly updated and their knowledge throughout their period of office.
As part of its accessible throughout the Group.
Directors are required to confirm continuing training programme, the Group runs occasional compliance with these policies throughout the year.
The results of training events solely for directors.
Sessions run during 2007 include this confirmation process are reported to the Audit Committee.
directors duties and other changes arising from the Companies The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies Act 2006 and Financial Reporting.
for employee selection, assessment and development and have In addition, all directors are invited to participate in direct involvement in senior management appointments.
Legal & Generals educational and business awareness seminars Succession planning and contingency arrangements are in place for senior management.
2007 sessions included Capital and for senior management and have been reviewed by the Board.
Cashflow, Opportunities and Challenges in the UK Pensions Market The Group seeks to conduct business in accordance with and an update on the Investment Market.
ethical principles and there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
Shareholder Relations The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the key The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good risks to the Group are set out below.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Care is exercised to ensure that any Review of Internal Control price-sensitive information is released at the same time to all The Combined Code requires directors to review and report shareholders, whether institutional or private.
The Board regards to shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, which the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate directly include financial, operational and compliance controls, and with private investors.
Board members, including the chairmen of risk management.
the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, attend The Board has controls in place to identify, evaluate and the meeting and are available to answer questions.
manage significant risks faced by the Company on an ongoing basis and for determining the effectiveness of the system of Board Committees internal control.
Where failings or weaknesses are identified, The Board has a number of standing committees: necessary actions are taken to remedy any such failings or weaknesses.
Audit Committee AC Established procedures, including those already described, are The role and work of the Audit Committee is set on page 58. in place to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee CSR Regular reports by management to the main operating boards The role and work of the Corporate Social Responsibility and the Audit Committee, on the adequacy and effectiveness Committee is set on page 38. of internal control systems and significant control issues: The GRCCs review of the continuous Groupwide process for Nominations Committee NC formally identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The role and work of the Nominations Committee is set on page 60. risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives: Compliance reports and presentations from the Director, Remuneration Committee RC Compliance, on at least a quarterly basis: and The role and work of the Remuneration Committee is set on page 49.
Presentations of the results of internal audits, by the Group Chief Internal Auditor, to the Audit Committee.
Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC The role and work of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, is set on page 46. environmental and ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
The GRCCs review of the significant risks to the Group includes Disclosure Committee these matters.
The work of the Corporate Social Responsibility The Disclosure Committee advises the Board on the management Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive, can and disclosure of insider information in accordance with the be found on page 38. requirements of the Listing and Disclosure Rules.
The Disclosure The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, Committee is chaired by the Group Financial Controller and rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives comprises the heads of specialist Group functions.
It meets when and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance circumstances dictate.
against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes www.
qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 46 Corporate Governance continued reasonable assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to Management of Risk The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, internal control systems.
Insurance, Market, Credit, Liquidity, and Operational risks.
Overall responsibility for the management of these risks is vested in the The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational and compliance controls, and the risk management process, are Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk framework is in place comprising formal committees, risk assessment processes and risk reported to the Board.
For 2007, the Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control review functions.
The framework provides assurance that risks are being appropriately identified and managed and that an systems have been maintained throughout the year.
independent assessment of risks is being performed.
Internal Audit Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which Committee Structure Oversight of the risk management framework is performed systems of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources and ensure on behalf of the Group Board by its sub-committee, the GRCC.
The GRCC meets quarterly and is chaired by the Group Chief compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and control to senior management Executive.
All executive directors are members.
In addition, senior managers drawn from across the Group are regular attendees.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the The Chairman of the Audit Committee and  LLP, as external auditors, have a standing Group as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving executive directors and senior managers.
The output invitation to attend.
The primary role of GRCC is to ensure there are appropriate from this process is summarised in a plan which is presented to the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Internal Auditor reports regularly processes in place across the Group to identify, assess, monitor and control critical risks facing the Group, including regulatory to the Group Chief Executive and to the Audit Committee.
It reports regularly to the Group Board and its minutes are provided to the Audit Committee.
Compliance The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight of the The table below shows the sub committees of the GRCC that are in place.
In addition, Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs Groups compliance with regulatory requirements and standards.
This encompasses the provision of policy advice and guidance are in place for each of the main operational business units of the Group.
These committees are predominantly responsible for the to the regulated firms, oversight of regulated firms compliance arrangements to assess whether firms have appropriate systems, oversight of the management of operational risks and regulation.
RCCs formally report both to their operating boards and to the procedures and controls in place to manage their permitted regulatory activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising from GRCC.
Management of risks arising from the Groups overseas subsidiaries is performed by the Boards of the local holding authorised firms compliance responsibilities.
The Director, Compliance, reports quarterly to the GRCC and regularly to companies, which provide reports to the GRCC.
Committee Role Membership Group Capital Committee To assess the capital requirements including the Group Chief Executive, Group Director GCC risk based capital requirements of the Group: to Finance, Group Executive Director monitor the sources of capital available to meet Protection & Annuities, Group Actuary, these requirements and oversee the allocation of Actuary UK capital to firms.
Counterparty Credit To set limits for the Groups exposure to any single Group Director Finance, Chief Executive Committee CCC counterparty failure and to manage exposures Officer LGIM, Group Treasurer within these established limits.
Group Investment & Market Determines the Groups overall framework for the Group Chief Executive, Group Director Risk Committee IMRC management of market and liquidity risks and Finance, Group Actuary, Actuary UK maintains oversight of exposures to ensure they remain in acceptable tolerances.
Group Insurance Risk Determines the Groups overall framework for the Group Chief Executive, Group Director Committee GIRC management of insurance risks and maintains Finance, Group Executive Director oversight of exposures to ensure they remain in Protection & Annuities, Group Actuary, acceptable tolerances.
Actuary UK Group Operational Risk Determines the Groups overall framework for the Group Director Finance, Senior Finance Assessment Committee management of operational risks and ensures and Risk Managers, Group Secretary ORAC consistency in the approach to operational risk management across the Group.
46 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance 23148 p044-060.
qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 47 Risk Assessment Processes Credit Risk A continuous Groupwide process is in place formally identifying, Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
A standard approach is used to assess Credit risk is not sought in its own right.
However, the investment of shareholders and policyholders monies requires credit risks to risks.
Senior management and the Risk Review Functions see be taken.
Exposure to credit risk also arises in the reinsurance of below review the output of the assessments.
Credit risk is managed through the setting assessment process is used to determine the key risks within the and regular review of detailed counterparty credit and Group reported to the GRCC.
Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury transactions is monitored daily.
Risk Review Functions Group and firm level Risk Review Functions provide oversight of the Liquidity Risk risk management processes within the Group.
A central risk function Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not is responsible for setting the risk management framework and have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its standards.
Risk Review Functions in each of the business operating obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
units manage the framework in line with these standards.
Their A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Groups businesses.
responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business Liquidity risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty operating environment and business processes, the assessment surrounding the value and timing of cash flows.
The Groups of these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the Treasury function manages liquidity to ensure the Group maintains mitigating actions.
The Risk Review Functions also ensure that risk sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent committees are provided with meaningful risk reports and that estimate of its net cash outflows.
there is appropriate information to assess risk issues.
Details of the categories of risk to the Group, and high-level Operational Risk management processes, are summarised below.
More detailed Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed analysis may be found in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The Group has defined policies The Group identifies and assesses operational risk as part of for the management of its key risks, the operation of which are its continuous risk assessment processes.
RCCs ensure that supported by Risk Review Functions and are independently appropriate policies and procedures are in place for these risks confirmed by Group Internal Audit.
The GRCC reviews and and that they are properly controlled.
There are detailed approves these policies.
procedures covering specific areas of operational risk.
Insurance Risk Contagion Risk Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims being The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in experienced than was anticipated.
contagion risk elsewhere in the Group.
Such matters are assessed Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and and monitored by the GRCC.
arises as a consequence of the type and volume of new business written and the concentration of risk, in particular, policies, or Prudential Regulation of Insurance Business groups of policies, subject to the same risks.
Most of the activities of the Group relate to the businesses which The Group controls its insurance exposures through policies and are subject to prudential regulation and require management to delegated authorities for underwriting, pricing and reinsurance.
operate in a sound and prudent manner.
In the UK, the Financial Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, Services and Markets Act 2000 the Act established the Financial which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance Services Authority FSA as the regulator for most Group exposures are further limited through reinsurance.
The Act, in particular, requires long term insurance business to be written within long term insurance funds, for which Market Risk the actuaries appointed under the Act have certain legal Market risk is the risk arising from fluctuations in interest and accountabilities.
These actuaries are subject to the disciplines exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
of professional conduct and guidance and have a reporting The investment policies for long term and other businesses have relationship to the directors of the relevant insurance company due regard to the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other and to the FSA.
The actuaries have access to their boards and embedded options given to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of must report fully and impartially on the financial condition of the such liabilities is normally managed by investing in assets of similar funds, annually quantifying and confirming each funds liabilities duration, where possible.
It is further managed by maintaining and solvency position.
The FSA receives a copy of these reports, capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under which are also subject to audit and overall peer review.
a number of adverse scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
The Group is also potentially exposed to loss as a result of Going Concern fluctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going in foreign currencies.
Balance sheet foreign exchange translation concern basis consistent with their view, formed after making exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively appropriate enquiries, that the Group is operationally and managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group financially robust.
Board, which allows net foreign currency assets to be hedged.
Compliance with the Code For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company believes it has complied with the principles and provisions of the Code to the extent that they apply to Legal & General Group Plc.
qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 48 Corporate Governance continued Board Attendance The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Group Risk and Board Remuneration Audit CSR Nominations Compliance Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir Rob Margetts 9 9 3 3 2 2 Non-executive Chairman Tim Breedon 9 9 4 4 6 6 Group Chief Executive 1 Andrew Palmer 9 9 4 6 Executive director Group Director Finance Kate Avery 9 9 6 6 Executive director Group Executive Director Wealth Management 1 Robin Phipps 4 5 3 3 Executive director 2 Group Executive Director UK John Pollock 9 9 6 6 Executive director Group Executive Director Protection & Annuities Frances Heaton 9 9 4 4 2 2 Non-executive director Beverley Hodson 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 Non-executive director 5 6 Rudy Markham 9 9 2 2 3 3 2 2 Non-executive director 1 1 Ronaldo Schmitz 8 9 2 3 2 2 Non-executive director 4 Henry Staunton 9 9 4 4 2 2 3 6 Non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee James Strachan 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 Non-executive director Sir David Walker 9 9 3 3 2 2 Non-executive Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director 1.
Indicates that absence was agreed with the Chairman in advance.
Robin Phipps retired from the Board on 13 July 2007.
Beverley Hodson retired from the Board on 16 May 2007.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Henry Staunton has a standing invitation to attend the Group Risk & Compliance Committee but is not a member.
Rudy Markham was appointed to the Remuneration Committee at its second meeting of the year in July 2007.
Rudy Markham was appointed to the Audit Committee at its second meeting of the year in May 2007.
48 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
