qxd:23148 p044-060 31 3 08 16:38 Page 60 Report of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board reviewed by the Committee on an ongoing basis.
On appointment, appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The non-executive directors undertake that they have sufficient time to Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman and comprises the meet the Companys expectations.
Attendance at meetings and non-executive directors, all of whom have been adjudged by the the performance of individual directors are kept under review.
Executive directors may attend The Committee keeps the structure, size and composition meetings as appropriate by invitation.
On any matter directly including the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board involving the Chairman, eg Chairman succession, the Committee under regular review.
It performs a key role in ensuring the orderly is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
succession of Board and senior management appointments.
In satisfying the Board that succession arrangements are appropriate, Duties the Committee has regard to the existing balance of skills and The Committees role is to make recommendations to the Board expertise, as well as likely future needs, taking account of the on the appointment of any director: to ensure that arrangements challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The Committee for Board and top management succession are adequate: to keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both consider the reappointment or otherwise of any non-executive executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the Companys director on expiry of their term of office and other matters relating continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
to the continuation in office of any director.
No director is present during discussions relating to their appointment.
Activities The Committees approach is explained further below.
During 2007, the Committee met three times.
Matters considered The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for included the retirement of Robin Phipps, reappointment of nonthe approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
executive directors at the end of their term of office, succession Appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed planning for the Board and top management, and the Group against objective criteria.
Before identifying prospective Chief Executives performance review.
candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board against the Terms of reference requirements of the business.
Based on the outcome of this The terms of reference of the Committee are available for inspection evaluation, the Committee prepares a description of the role and at the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the capabilities required.
The Committee uses external advisers to Companys corporate website www.
facilitate searches for potential candidates.
So far as possible, The terms of appointment of non-executive directors can also candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
be inspected at the Companys registered office or via the The time commitment required of a non executive director is corporate website.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the with regard to the parent company financial statements that Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, company financial statements in accordance with applicable law subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in and regulations.
the financial statements: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the Group and parent company financial statements statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance that the Group will continue in business, in which case there with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
by the European Union, and the parent company financial The directors confirm that they have complied with the above statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance requirements in preparing the financial statements.
with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and parent the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and company financial statements are required by law to give a true the parent company financial statements and the Directors and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as governing the preparation and dissemination of financial adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB, and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
60 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Financial Statements 23148 p061-066.
qxd:23148 p061-066 31 3 08 16:36 Page 61 Group consolidated financial statements 62 Independent auditors report 90 23.
Income tax 63 Consolidated income statement 90 24.
Other assets 64 Consolidated balance sheet 90 25.
Cash and cash equivalents 65 Consolidated statement of recognised income 91 26.
Share capital, share premium and expense and employee schemes shares 66 Consolidated cash ow statement 92 27.
Capital redemption and other reserves 67 Notes to the financial statements 92 28.
New business gross of reinsurance 97 33.
Net claims and change in non-participating contracts insurance liabilities 98 35.
Borrowings 81 10. profit before income tax 103 37.
Events after the balance sheet date 81 11.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 85 17.
Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 111 47.
Purchased interest in long term businesses 111 48.
Risk management and control Supplementary financial statements 128 Consolidated income statement European 129 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense European embedded value basis embedded value basis 130 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 129 Consolidated balance sheet European embedded value basis 146 Independent auditors report Company financial statements 147 Independent auditors report 149 Company reconciliation of movements in total equity 148 Company balance sheet 150 Notes to the company financial statements 149 Company statement of total recognised gains and losses www.
