32 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC IS COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, AND BUSINESS INTEGRITY IN ALL ITS ACTIVITIES.
THE COMPANY HAS COMPLIED WITH ALL PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE THROUGHOUT THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 EXCEPT AS EXPLAINED IN THE REPORT BELOW.
Following the Scheme of Arrangement in BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2007 Board May 2006, London Stock Exchange Group plc 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee adopted the same corporate governance practices and Board Committees as London Total number of Meetings in Stock Exchange plc.
the year ended 31 March 2007 18 4 5 1 10 Dr Chris GibsonSmith 18 1 1 10 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Mrs Clara Furse 16 9 The Board had previously commenced a process to recruit additional non-executive Mr Jonathan Howell 18 10 directors which ceased when the Company Mr Gary Allen 14 4 9 entered an Offer Period in December 2004.
In order to refresh the Board and its Baroness Janet Cohen 16 3 4 0 Committees, the Board is now seeking to Mr Oscar Fanjul 16 4 1 recruit additional directors.
This process Mr Peter Meinertzhagen 15 4 9 is being led by the Nomination Committee working alongside recruitment consultants.
Mr Nigel Stapleton 14 2 5 1 8 Mr Robert Webb 14 4 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is the principal decision making 1 Established when the Company entered an Offer Period forum for the Company and is responsible to shareholders for achieving its strategic At each of its meetings the Board receives a insurance policy throughout 2006.
This objectives and for its financial and full written report from the Chief Executive insurance cover was renewed at the operational performance.
The Board has on financial performance, key matters in beginning of 2007.
Neither the Companys adopted a formal schedule of matters each of the divisions and progress against indemnity nor insurance provides cover speci cally reserved to it including: key performance indicators.
The executive in the event that the director is proved to management team present to the Board on have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Exchanges corporate strategy: their business responsibilities on a regular basis and also present at the Boards periodic BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE The annual budget: strategy sessions.
The Board comprises nine directors, Policies in relation to risk management, the Chairman who was independent on health and safety and environmental The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive appointment, two executive directors and matters: are distinct and separate with a clear division six non-executive directors.
The Chairman leads the on the Boards committees together with Increases or variations to borrowing Board and is responsible for ensuring its biographical details are identi ed on the facilities: effectiveness.
The Chairmans other current Board of Directors pages 30 and 31 which Committing to major capital expenditure signi cant commitments are set out in his demonstrate a range of business experience or acquisitions: and biography on page 30.
During the year the that provide the right mix of skills and only change has been his appointment as experience given the size of the Company.
Chairman of The British Land Company plc.
Board considers all non-executive directors to The Chief Executive has delegated authority be independent in character, that there are no The Board also views the Exchanges brand from, and is responsible to, the Board for relationships or circumstances which are likely and reputation as a Recognised Investment managing the Companys business.
The Board to affect their independent judgement and no Exchange as important assets of the has six scheduled meetings in addition to two undue reliance is placed on any individual.
Company and protection of brand and offsite strategy sessions.
In the year ended reputation are key parts of the Boards role.
31 March 2007 the Board held 18 meetings.
The senior director, Gary Allen, and Peter The Chairman meets non-executive directors Meinertzhagen, who sit on the Audit and As the Company was in an Offer Period without the presence of executive directors Remuneration Committees respectively, during the year, there were a large number on a number of occasions throughout the year.
are not independent according to the length of Board and Committee meetings often of service criterion of the Combined Code convened on short notice.
Non-attendance Directors have the bene t of indemnity but are considered by the Board to be at meetings was due to prior business or arrangements from the Company in respect independent in character and in particular personal commitments and illness.
On the of liabilities incurred as a result of their both continue to challenge rigorously the occasions when a director has been unable of ce and execution of their powers, duties executive directors, the Board, and the to attend a Board or Committee meeting, and responsibilities.
In respect of those Committees on which they sit.
any comments which he or she has arising liabilities for which directors may not be out of the papers have been relayed in indemni ed, the Company purchased and Gary Allen was appointed Senior Director advance to the relevant chairman.
obtained a directors and of cers liability in 2004 and is also Chairman of the Audit THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 33 Committee.
The Board considers that it is potential offers for the Company on behalf of Director of Finance, Head of Finance, Head appropriate for Gary Allen to continue to the Board.
The Committee was appointed in of Internal Audit and senior representatives act as Senior Director and to chair the Audit December 2004.
The Committee comprised from the external auditors to attend its Committee.
In particular Gary has wide Chris Gibson-Smith, Clara Furse, Jonathan meetings.
Other senior managers are invited domestic and international business experience Howell, Gary Allen, Nigel Stapleton and to present such reports as are required and additionally a long-term perspective on Peter Meinertzhagen.
It met 10 times by the Committee.
The Committee meets the Exchanges business.
Gary brings this between 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007. privately with the  experience to bear in his role as Senior Director partner on an annual basis.
It has the and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee opportunity at each meeting to review any The Committee members as at 31 March 2007 issues with the external auditors and with The Board considers that it continues to be were: Nigel Stapleton Chairman, Janet Cohen, the Head of Internal Audit without any appropriate for Peter Meinertzhagen to sit Peter Meinertzhagen and Robert Webb.
During other members of executive management on the Remuneration Committee given his Peter Meinertzhagens absence through being present.
knowledge and experience of the specialist illness, the Chairman, Chris Gibson-Smith, nature of the market in which the Company who was independent on appointment, was During the year, the Committee reviewed operates.
This is considered to be helpful appointed to the Committee on a temporary the following: to the Committee in developing its basis except in relation to decisions relating remuneration strategy for the London Stock to his own fee.
The Committee normally Annual report and interim results: Exchange and to the Board as a whole.
invites the Chief Executive, Director of Reports from the Companys internal audit Finance and Head of Human Resources to department on the effectiveness of the Given their length of service, Peter attend part of the meeting and the Chairman Companys risk management procedures, Meinertzhagen and Gary Allen will stand for to attend throughout.
The Committee has details of key audit findings and actions re-election on an annual basis as required by written terms of reference and meets at taken by management: the Combined Code.
least twice a year to review and present recommendations to the Board regarding Effectiveness of the Companys system PERFORMANCE EVALUATION remuneration and conditions of service of of internal control: The annual performance evaluation of the the Chairman, Chief Executive and executive Internal audit plan: Board and its Committees was undertaken directors, including the grant of entitlements in the year ended 31 March 2007 and was under the Companys share schemes.
Reports from external auditors on their conducted by the Company Secretary using A separate Remuneration Report is set audit, proposed audit scope, fees and a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the out on pages 35 to 41. auditor independence: review are used to highlight areas of strength Performance of the Companys internal and weakness and assist in consideration of Audit Committee audit department: the future development of the Board and its The Committee members as at 31 March 2007 Committees and in further improving their were: Gary Allen Chairman, Janet Cohen, The Companys nancing strategy and performance.
The assessment included the Oscar Fanjul and Nigel Stapleton.
There have proposed debt nancing arrangements: composition of the Board and appropriateness been no changes in the membership of the Financial disclosures included within the of Board agendas.
The results were then Committee during the financial year.
As Companys defence documents: discussed by the Board and actions agreed explained above, with the exception of Gary where appropriate.
The evaluation concluded Allen, all members of the Committee are The Companys insurance programme: and that the Board and its Committees had considered to be independent non-executive The Companys whistleblowing procedures.
performed well during the year and are directors as fide ned by the Combined Code.
effective in meeting their objectives and The Board is satis ed that various members The Committee has adopted a policy on nonfu lling their obligations.
Issues identi ed of the Committee have recent and relevant audit services which ensures that the provision included the need to appoint additional financial experience.
of such services by the external auditor directors to the Board and the wish to see does not impair the auditors objectivity and more members of the executive team present Role of the Audit Committee independence.
The policy, which is compliant at Board meetings.
The Senior Director The Committee has written terms of with APB Ethical Standard 5, Non-Audit sought the views of executive directors reference, which are available from the Services Provided to Audit Clients and ICAEW and has met separately with non-executive Company Secretary or on the corporate Guidance for Audit Committees, fide fines both directors without the Chairman present to website at www.
com the type and value of services that require discuss the Chairmans performance.
prior authorisation of the Committee and the Meetings services that the external auditor is prohibited BOARD COMMITTEES The Committee meets at least three times from providing.
The Committee annually Offer Period Board Committee a year and has an agenda linked to events reviews all non-audit services provided by the During the year the Company had a Board in the Companys financial calendar.
The external auditor to ensure compliance with the Committee to consider all matters relating to Committee normally invites the Chairman, policy.
The Committee remains satis ed 34 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET CORPORATE GOVERNANCE with the objectivity and independence of The principal features of the Companys RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the Companys external auditors.
control framework are described under the The Boards primary contact with investors following headings: is via the Chief Executive Of cer and Nomination Committee Director of Finance.
The Chairman and The Nomination Committee members as Delegation of authority matters reserved Senior Non-Executive Director and Executive at 31 March 2007 were: Chris Gibson-Smith for Board approval only are clearly fide ned.
Management are also available to meet Chairman, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, Nigel Executive directors have general major investors from time to time.
The Committee responsibility for making and implementing normally invites the Chief Executive to attend.
operational decisions and for overseeing Communication with investors and analysts The Committee meets as necessary to make the Companys business.
All directors is maintained through a programme of recommendations to the Board on all new have access to the advice and services meetings, conference calls, presentations Board appointments and to review executive of the Company Secretary.
In addition all and news releases.
Senior management, and Board succession planning.
Since the directors are able, if necessary, to obtain supported by the Investor Relations team, Company exited the Offer Period on 11 independent professional advice at the held over 250 meetings and calls with its February, the Committee has met to consider Companys expense.
principal investors and financial analysts in the appointment of additional non-executive the UK, Europe, the US and other regions Planning and reporting the Board approves directors to the Board.
The Committee has during the financial year.
strategic decisions and the budget for the worked alongside external recruitment forthcoming year and receives a report consultants to evaluate and meet prospective The Investor Relations section of our website on key business matters from the Chief candidates.
If appropriate, candidates will at www.
com Executive at each meeting.
Monthly reports be recommended to the whole Board for is a primary source of information on to management contain key performance approval.
The Committee has written terms the Company.
Annual and interim reports, indicators and compare actual financial of reference which are available from the quarterly trading updates, news releases and performance with the annual budget or Company Secretary or on the corporate other key documents are archived on the forecast.
Management action is taken website at www.
The presentations of preliminary where variances arise and revised forecasts and interim results are accessible by are prepared on a regular basis.
Users are able to register to an The Board con rms that procedures have Audit Committee the Companys internal alerting facility to receive noti cation of been in place throughout the year and up audit department reports to the Audit updates and new releases.
A shareholder to the date of this report which comply fully Committee on the effectiveness of key helpline is provided throughout the year.
with the guidance Internal Control: Revised risk management and internal control Guidance for Directors on the Combined procedures and appropriate action is During the year the Board received a report Code October 2005 published by the taken where necessary.
The Audit from the Executive at each of its scheduled Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Committee also receives reports from meetings, including an analysis of share price the Companys external auditors.
movements, market expectations of financial The Companys systems of internal control performance, share register composition and Risk Management effective risk over business, operational, financial and feedback from major investors.
Feedback management is the responsibility of all compliance risks are designed to help the from investors was also regularly reported to line managers and each business area Company meet its business objectives by the Board Committee established to consider updates and evaluates its documented key appropriately managing, rather than all matters relating to potential offers for the risks and controls as necessary.
Periodic eliminating, the risks to those objectives.
Company on behalf of the Board.
reports con rming the effectiveness of all The controls can only provide reasonable, signi cant control policies and procedures not absolute, assurance against material The Annual General Meeting AGM provides are produced by management and reviewed mis-statement or loss.
The Board has ultimate the opportunity for private shareholders by the most senior executive in each responsibility for the systems of internal to question the Board and meet directors business area.
The Companys internal audit control and, through the Audit Committee, informally after the event.
The Chairmen department reviews these reports and has reviewed the effectiveness of the of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination independently summarises for the Audit systems.
The Board is committed to their Committees are available to answer Committee any signi cant matters arising.
The Board con rms questions.
The procedures for the AGM are that the actions it considers necessary have Detailed procedures procedures and compliant with the Combined Code and the been or are being taken to rectify such failings controls for key business areas including event is normally attended by all directors.
and weaknesses which it considers to be the Companys finance function are set out signi cant from its review of the system in detailed departmental manuals.
These HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT of internal control.
The Board also con rms are reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet The Companys approach to health, safety that it has not been advised of material changing business needs.
and the environment is set out in our weaknesses in that part of the internal control Corporate Responsibility statement on system that relates to financial reporting.
