Report of the Audit Committee This report sets out the membership, purposes and Review of risk management within the Central function, activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
Europe, Asia & US and International: Review of insurance cover: Membership and terms of reference A review of the effectiveness of the internal and external Membership of the Audit Committee consists solely of auditors: the Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired Review of health and safety in International and Europe, by Kasper Rorsted and the other members are Simon Asia & US: Ball, Clive Butler, Kate Nealon and Agns Touraine.
Review of the Groups tax policies: and Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The Committees objectives include: assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities to create an effective system Disclosure Committee of internal control and compliance: provision of accurate To assist the Committee with its responsibilities, a Disclosure external financial reporting: and assisting management Committee has been set up with responsibility for identifying in conducting and reporting effective risk management.
and considering disclosure matters in connection with the The Committee has agreed terms of reference which are preparation of all market releases containing material published on our website and which are summarised below: financial information.
To review and, where necessary, challenge the actions and During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure judgements of management in relation to the preliminary, Committee requests and obtains confirmatory statements full year and interim financial statements before from contributors prior to the documents review by the submission to the Board.
Particular attention is paid Committee and approval by the Board.
to critical accounting policies: clarity of disclosure and compliance with accounting standards: Internal audit To review compliance with legal and regulatory The Internal Audit function, headed by the Group Director requirements arising from our listing on the London of Internal Audit, is supported by a team of auditors based Stock Exchange: in the UK and Jamaica.
The function has a formal charter To review material complaints regarding accounting, approved by the Board that describes its purpose, authority internal controls and auditing raised by employees and responsibility.
and generally monitor whistle blowing procedures: The functions annual audit plan is approved by the To review the internal audit programme and consider Audit Committee.
the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and To make recommendations to the Board on the External audit appointment, reappointment and removal of the external KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditor since 1991.
The Audit auditor, to approve their remuneration and terms of Committee has established a policy which is intended engagement and the process of approval of audit and to maintain the independence of the auditor.
The policy non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
governs the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its associates to Cable Meetings & Wireless.
The policy clearly identifies permitted and The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during prohibited services.
In addition, the policy clearly sets out the year ended 31 March 2007.
An additional meeting was the procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit also held in July to undertake training and a review of and non-audit services: all engagements with an expected Committee governance.
The agenda for the year was set value in excess of 250,000 require the prior approval of at the July meeting and is reviewed by the Committee the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Chairman in conjunction with the Finance Director and external auditors prior to each meeting.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, fees for audit services of 2.8 million including 0.5 million relating to the prior year Standing reports from the Finance Director, the external were approved by the Committee.
During the year, fees for auditor, Group Director of Internal Audit and Group General audit-related regulatory reporting of 0.4 million and nonCounsel are presented at each scheduled meeting.
audit work of 1.0 million were approved.
The nature of the In addition, during the year under review, the Committee services provided is set out in note 6 to the consolidated considered and discussed the business set out below and financial statements.
made recommendations to the Board where appropriate: Kasper Rorsted Financial results including preliminary results and press Chairman, Audit Committee release for the year ended 31 March 2006: the 2005 06 23 May 2007 Annual Report together with the Directors statement on compliance with Turnbull guidance on internal controls and risk management: and interim results and press release for the six months ended 30 September 2006: 37 Governance
