Corporate governance report Our Board is focused on achieving long term Clive Butler was appointed as the Senior Independent success for Cable & Wireless through the pursuit Director on 1 July 2006 following the retirement of Graham of sound business strategies whilst maintaining Howe.
Clive is charged with establishing a communication high standards of corporate governance.
channel between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors and ensuring that the views of each Non-executive This report, along with the Audit Committee report on page Director are given due consideration.
He is also a contact 37 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 47, point for shareholders if they have reason for concern which describes our governing policies and practices.
It provides contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or an insight into how our Board and senior management run Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which the business for the benefit of our shareholders.
Board membership and attendance Role of the Board At 31 March 2007, our Board comprised the Chairman, The Board provides the leadership of Cable & Wireless and, four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors, either directly or through the operation of its Committees who are collectively responsible for the success of Cable and delegated authority, brings an independent judgement & Wireless.
Biographies of the Directors and their Board on all matters of strategy, performance, resources including committee memberships are shown on pages 30 to 31. key appointments and standards of conduct.
The Board Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms The Board met on eight occasions during 2006 07, and of reference that are reviewed annually and published on in addition attended meetings to consider the strategic our website at www.
direction of International and Europe, Asia & US.
The total number of meetings including Board Committees and The Board sets the strategic aims which are then Directors attendance at these meetings are shown below.
implemented through the approval and regular monitoring of the budget and five-year plan prepared by the Executive The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills Directors.
At its regular meetings, the Board deals with those and experience to Cable & Wireless.
They provide an matters specifically reserved for its decision and any other independent view on matters of strategy, performance, material matter.
Reserved matters include Group strategy, risk and people through their contribution at Board and financial reporting and control, acquisitions and disposals, Committee meetings.
The Board considers that all our annual budgets and operating plans, customer contracts Non-executive Directors are independent in character and expenditure over a certain financial limit, Board and and judgement.
Non-executive Directors are appointed Committee membership and other senior appointments, for an initial three-year term with the expectation that a Director and senior executive remuneration, delegation further term will follow, subject to review by the Board.
The of authority, and corporate governance.
Further detail terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive of the Boards reserved powers may be found on our Directors are available for inspection at our registered website at www.
office during normal business hours and at our AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The Board and its Committees are provided with full and timely information prior to meetings, including detailed Audit Remuneration Nominations financial information.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Board Committee Committee Committee Company Secretary and Executive Directors, sets the agenda Chairman for Board meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Richard Lapthorne 8 1 Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated Executive Directors to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a George Battersby 8 particular proposal this will be recorded in the minutes of Harris Jones 8 the relevant meeting.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, John Pluthero 8 as for the previous year, there were no such objections.
Tony Rice 8 The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that an Non-executive Directors appropriate induction is given to new Board members.
1 Simon Ball 754 On an ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training, 2 Clive Butler 8650 briefings and information to enable them to perform their Kate Nealon 7551 roles both on the Board and its Committees.
All Directors 3 Kasper Rorsted 864 1 have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and, 3 Agns Touraine 864 in addition, the Board has established a procedure whereby Meetings held during the year8651 any Director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice on any 1 Has attended all meetings since appointment on 1 May 2006. matter at the Companys expense.
2 No meetings have been held since appointment to the Committee.
3 Have attended all meetings since appointment to the Committee.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, responsibility for Director is not a Committee member.
the day-to-day management of International and Europe, 34 Asia & US was delegated to the Executive Directors, Harris During the year, the Non-executive Directors met privately Jones and John Pluthero respectively, and responsibility both with and without the Chairman being present, to for management of the Central functions was delegated to consider management performance and succession issues.
the Executive Director, Tony Rice.
As part of this exercise, the Non-executive Directors appraised the Chairmans performance and reviewed Operating Boards have been established for both the relationship between the Chairman and the three International and Europe, Asia & US.
Lord Robertson of Joint Group Managing Directors to ensure that the Board Port Ellen is the Non-executive Chairman of the International structure and relationships were working to promote the Operating Board.
Membership of the International Operating creation of shareholder value.
Board includes Harris Jones and his senior management team together with three Investor Directors.
Membership Compliance with the Combined Code of the Europe, Asia & US Operating Board includes John Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, we complied Pluthero as Chairman, Jim Marsh as Chief Executive, and with all Code provisions set out in Section One of the 2003 his senior management team together with three Investor FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with one Directors.
In each case, the Investor Directors are appointed exception.
C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the board should by the Board and are Tony Rice, George Battersby Group satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee HR Director and Nick Cooper Company Secretary and Group has recent and relevant financial experience.
Separate schedules of reserved matters considers that there is a sufficient breadth of financial have been created for the two Operating Boards and the expertise across the Audit Committee and that, collectively, Board may delegate power to the Investor Directors to grant the members have the requisite skills and attributes to approval on any matter otherwise reserved for the Board.
As a result, the Board has decided not to identify any one member as having Committees of the Board such experience.
Reports on the purpose and activities of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are included on pages 37 and Statement from the independent 38 to 47 respectively.
Non-executive Directors The Nominations Committee comprises Richard Lapthorne As from 1 April 2006, Cable & Wireless substantially Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Chairs changed the manner in which it was managed.
The activities of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, the majority of of the Group were divided into three International, Europe, whom are independent Non-executive Directors.
Its role is Asia & US and a Central function, each with a Joint Group to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the Managing Director in charge, reporting to the Chairman.
nomination, selection, training and evaluation of Directors The role of the main plc Board is to enable the creation and for succession planning.
The Nominations Committee of shareholder value through a clear exposure to the reviews Board structure, size, composition and succession strategies of the three areas, to agree targets, to oversee plans, thereby keeping under review the balance of the operational performance of the component parts of membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge the Group, to exercise proper corporate governance and and experience of the Board.
Members of the Committee thereby hold to account the Group Managing Directors abstain when matters affecting their own appointments and their teams.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on our website at www.
The Committee Each main Board meeting is divided into three sections met once during the year under review.
one for each Group Managing Directors area of responsibility.
The minutes from the two subsidiary The Board did not use an external search consultancy nor Operating Board meetings are presented, together with advertised openly when considering the appointment of an reports from each of the Group Managing Directors along additional Non-executive Director in early 2006.
Instead, with papers addressing specific matters for consideration given the business model being put in place in the Group or reporting and which are regarded as appropriate for the and the particular skills and experience he could offer given main Board.
his position as Finance Director of a publicly quoted private equity and venture capital business, Simon Ball was The Central function acts as the sole owner of the two approached directly by the Board.
From this function, the Group Managing Director, Central, the Group HR Director and Performance evaluation the Company Secretary Investor Directors sit on the During the year ended 31 March 2007, a full evaluation was Operating Boards of International and Europe, Asia & US and undertaken of the performance of the Board, its principal have special voting rights or reserved powers.
These Boards committees and the Directors through individual discussions also include key executives from each business.
with an external independent facilitator.
The results of The Group Managing Directors responsible for International this exercise were presented to, and considered by, the and Europe, Asia & US have delegated powers from the whole Board.
main Board such that they have the authority to run their 35 Governance Corporate governance report operations within planning and budgetary frameworks The changes in senior management, and the powerful agreed at both their Operating Board and main Board.
influence of the Cash Long Term Incentive Plan, has led However, the Investor Directors have the delegated authority to noticeable improvement in the systems of checks and to agree resolutions at the Operating Boards, to veto or balances between Executive Directors reinforced by the postpone them, or to ensure that reference is made at the extensive definition of powers and responsibilities put main Board.
In the first instance the resolution of any in place.
The role of the Chairman remains important in conflicts rests with the Chairman.
this, but much of the effort now lies in the relationship between the Group Managing Director, Central and his All the Investor Directors attend the main Board and are able team including the Investor Directors and each of the to add elaboration to any issues arising from the Operating Group Managing Directors of International and of Europe, Boards.
No matters are presented to the main Board from Asia & US.
In addition, within their own Operating Boards, International or Europe, Asia & US which have not previously these two Group Managing Directors also have executive passed through the relevant Operating Board.
teams who operate within a system which is more formal The nature of the Chairmans relationship with his key than hitherto and which takes place in front of external managers varies.
With the Group Managing Directors observers.
responsible for International and Europe, Asia & US, his The Group Managing Directors are open with the Board direct relationship is one of sounding board and coach just and there is systemic support for this behaviour from the as would occur between any plc chairman and single chief insight into the running of their own boards through the executive.
With the Managing Director in charge of Central circulation of the minutes.
There is a healthy competitive and with the Investor Directors he acts in an executive tension between the operating businesses, but not one capacity with key actions and decisions requiring his causing disruption.
The Investor Directors help in keeping specific agreement and or involvement.
the atmosphere open and constructive, and there is no The interpersonal relationships and the overall objectives reason to believe that anything material is withheld.
of the two operating businesses and the Group as a whole Finally, the question of the relationship between the are supported and reinforced by the design and shape of Chairman and the Group Managing Directors is more the incentive schemes the Cash Long Term Incentive complex.
First, the Chairman now has four direct reports Plan for the operating businesses and options and share the three Group Managing Directors and the Group HR schemes for Central.
These schemes are all designed to Director.
Second, he has a direct and an indirect relationship grow shareholder value but they vary in shape for each of with the Group Managing Directors for International and the three areas of activity to address their specific priorities.
for Europe, Asia & US direct as the equivalent of their Against this background, the independent directors have Chairman and indirect as the executive head of Central prepared their views on the four questions posed to them and hence of the Investor Directors on the Operating Boards.
annually as part of Cable & Wireless approach to measuring These relationships are soundly based on mutual respect, effective corporate governance.
The questions have been and are probably even more challenging outside the Board slightly restyled this year to take account of the new than within it.
structure and in particular the replacement of the Chief From February to July 2006, the Chairman worked almost Executive by three Joint Group Managing Directors.
full time leading the Board in the design of the new structure, The four questions are: defining the balance sheet and Cash Long Term Incentive 1 What is the quality of the relationship between the Plan structure, building support for the concepts with senior Chairman and the Joint Group Managing Directors?
management and shareholders and then in bedding down necessary changes in behaviour inside the Company.
From 2 How open are the Joint Group Managing Directors the beginning of May 2006, there were signs that the system with the Board?
was starting to work but it was only with approval of the 3 What is the visibility of checks and balances between Cash Long Term Incentive Plan at the AGM in July 2006 that the Executive Directors?
the new way of working became completely embedded and working as intended.
Subsequently the Cash Long Term 4 Have all questions asked by the independent Directors Incentive Plan has provided the glue which binds together in Board and Committee Meetings been appropriately all the elements of the management system.
The independent Directors are comfortable that they are Taking these questions in reverse order, there is no dealt with professionally and for the benefit of the Company hesitation in a positive reply to question four.
There is a within the comprehensive framework established for good atmosphere for question and debate.
Much effort is running Cable & Wireless.
The Directors are satisfied that made to respond to all questions raised by the independent the Companys corporate governance controls have been Directors.
Often, several Executives give helpful views effective during the year ended 31 March 2007. on any queries.
Where answers cannot be immediately given, written responses frequently follow.
