The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust company ensure that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate and which enables the Company to comply with the applicable issues.
These matters include approval of the Companys investment provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the policy, capital structure, share price and discount, committee Combined Code.
The Board has also taken account of the AIC membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk Code of Corporate Governance which was issued by the Association management, board appointments and removals, corporate of Investment Trust Companies in July 2003 and endorsed by the governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has been Financial Reporting Council in 2006.
The Board has reviewed and adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take applied the requirements of both codes except where stated independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied The Directors have access to the advice and services of the with the applicable provisions of the Combined Code throughout Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the accounting period to 31 January 2007.
Much of this statement that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to with applicable rules and regulations.
When a new Director is the Company.
appointed there is an induction process carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory The Board requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting The Board currently consists of six Directors, all of whom are nonDirectors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
executive and independent of the Companys investment manager.
Their biographies, on page 14, demonstrate a breadth of During the current year, the effectiveness of the Board was assessed investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
In addition, the performance of the Directors was evaluated by each The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and Joe Director, followed by a discussion with the Chairman.
The Scott Plummer was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in Chairmans own performance was evaluated by the other Directors, March 2005. who met under the chairmanship of Joe Scott Plummer.
The results The Board follows the AIC Code and considers Sir John Banham of the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have and Sir Bob Reid and Joe Scott Plummer, to be independent, been presented to the Nomination Committee.
notwithstanding that each has served on the Board for more than The effectiveness assessment determined that the balance of the nine years.
The Board does not consider that length of service has Board was satisfactory.
diminished the independence of these directors and continues to be of the view that their extensive experience and active knowledge of The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager industry is of great benefit to the Board.
the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for election at was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial then at least one third of Directors retire by rotation at each Annual control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs of General Meeting.
Every Director is required to seek re-election at the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly least every three years and annually after nine years service.
The from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information names of the Directors retiring by rotation at this years Annual are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards statement on its General Meeting are given on page 18. review of the management contract appears on page 18.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly.
In the Directors view the stability of the Board has been a source of strength but they are nevertheless aware of the need to refresh the composition from time to time and the Board intends to recruit further non-executive directors.
The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes ad hoc meetings as and when required.
Between meetings, regular contact with the investment managers is maintained.
The Board has 22 The Merchants Trust PLC Corpor Corporate Governance ate Governance Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee meetings Management Engagement Committee during the year was as follows: The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers Management performance.
It has dened terms of reference and consists of the Audit Nomination Engagement non-executive Directors and excludes any Directors previously Director Board Committee Committee Committee employed by the Managers.
It is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
of meetings 6 2 1 1 H. A. Stevenson 6 2 1 1 The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Sir John Banham 5 1 Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt R. A. Bareld 6 2 1 1 with by the whole Board.
Sir Bob Reid 6 2 1 1 J. M. Sassoon 3 1 The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be viewed P. J. Scott Plummer 6 2 1 1 by shareholders on request.
Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
Financial Reporting Joined the Board in July 2006.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the accounts is on page 21.
Board Committees The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 27.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent nonAuditors Information executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Board, and has dened terms of reference and duties.
The role of report confirms that: the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Sassoon.
The committee considers that, collectively, its a in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and discharge their responsibilities fully.
The committee meets at least twice each year and reviews the annual accounts and interim report b the Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a and considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit planning and the process of the audit and the Auditors information and to establish that the Companys auditors are independence and objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit aware of that information.
services provided by the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Audit Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and considers their appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
It meets representatives of the Managers twice-yearly Going Concern and receives reports on the internal controls maintained on behalf of After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation the Company and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
The that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Audit Committee continues to believe that the Company does not existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue require an internal audit function of its own as it delegates its day to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial day operations to third parties from whom it receives internal statements.
Internal Control Nomination Committee The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
The committee system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a also determines the process for the annual evaluation of the Board.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a The committee is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only Board.
All Directors serve on the committee and consider reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
23 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
systems of controls and approves the appointment of any subThis process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the custodians.
The Audit Committee also receives reports from Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code the Managers and Custodians internal auditors, compliance published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005 the department and independent Auditors.
The process has been fully in place throughout The Board reviews the Internal Control reports of the the year under review and up to the date of signing of these Report Managers and third party service providers, including those of and Accounts.
the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and Custodian, The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have HSBC Bank plc.
established and which are designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: The Board has undertaken a full review of the aspects covered by the Turnbull guidance and believes that there is an effective The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review of framework substantially in place to meet the requirements of the the Companys business risks and these are analysed and Combined Code.
Every six months the Board receives from the Manager a formal report which details any known The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the internal controls failures, including those that are not directly effectiveness of the system of internal control.
the responsibility of the Manager.
The Board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk Relations with Shareholders management are embedded in the operations and culture of The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting should the Company and its key suppliers.
be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Manager provides investment management, accounting and Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The company secretarial services to the Company.
The Manager number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the made available at the annual general meeting.
day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are included in the Management Agreement between the The Manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular Company and the Manager.
The Managers system of internal basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
control includes organisation arrangements with clearly dened lines of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit department.
Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors and its compliance department regularly monitors compliance may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, with FSA rules.
The Company receives reports at least annually London EC2M 3AD.
from the manager on its internal controls.
The Company, in common with other investment trusts, has no internal audit The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and department, but the effectiveness of the Managers internal special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report.
controls is monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Socially Responsible Investment and There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and Environmental Policy any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive The Investment Managers have been directed by the Board to take review by the Board of management accounting information account of companies corporate social responsibility and including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue environmental performance when taking investment decisions.
against projections and performance comparisons.
Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by the Board.
24 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Exercise of Voting Powers The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf, to the Managers.
The Managers use a proxy voting service which casts votes in accordance with the guidelines of the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF research material, unless its clients request a very specic policy to be voted by its fund managers.
An extract from the Trusts voting record in the previous calendar year will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting each year.
Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
