Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate election.
The Directors retiring by rotation in accordance with governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for the Companys Articles of Association are Mr Baring and corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an Mr Sage.
The Board has considered the position of Mr Baring investment trust and which enables the Company to comply and Mr Sage, as part of the evaluation process, and believes with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the that it would be in the Companys best interests to propose Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council them for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General in July 2003 and revised in June 2006.
Additionally, as the Meeting, given their material level of contribution.
Company is a member of the Association of Investment Any Director who has served on the Board for more than nine Companies the AIC, the Board has taken account of the years will be subject to annual re-election.
The Directors recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate support a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
Governance the AIC Code which complements the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice None of the Directors has a service contract with the for investment trust companies.
The Board has made the Company.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a appropriate disclosures in this report to ensure the Company letter sent to them when they join the Board.
These letters meets its continuing obligations.
are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available at the Annual General The Board considers that the Company has complied with Meeting.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he the relevant provisions contained within the Combined Code is provided with all relevant information regarding the throughout this accounting period and this statement Company and his duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In describes how these principles of governance are applied to addition, a new Director will also spend some time with the Company.
representatives of the Investment Manager whereby he will become familiar with the various processes which the The Board Manager considers necessary for the performance of its The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys all but one of whom are independent of the Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend Investment Manager.
This independence allows all of the training courses on matters which are directly relevant to Directors, with the exception of Mr Barby, to sit on the their involvement with the Company.
The Directors also Companys various committees.
Mr Barby, as a nonreceive regular briefings from, amongst others, the Auditor independent Director, does not sit on the Audit & and Company Secretary regarding any proposed Management Engagement Committee or the Remuneration developments or changes in laws or regulations that could Committee.
He is considered to be non-independent due to affect the Company and or the Directors.
his employment by the Investment Manager, from whom he retired in December 2003.
However, the rest of the Board The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in agrees that this relationship does not affect his judgement in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge discussions relating to the Investment Manager and that his its duties.
The Board determines strategic issues and all extensive experience of the investment trust sector is of operational matters of a material nature.
material value to the Company.
The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director Insurance cover throughout the year.
The provision of the Combined Code which relates to the combination of the roles of the chairman Boards responsibilities and chief executive does not apply as the Company The Board meets at least five times a year and between these has no executive directors.
The Directors biographies, on meetings there is regular contact with the Investment page 18, demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial Manager.
The Board reserves to itself decisions relating to and professional experience.
the determination of investment policy, any change in investment strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General buy back of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, and Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board since the entering into any material contracts.
The Board also sets previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 27 Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities continued investment parameters, such as the acquisition or disposal Management and administration of substantial interests and the maximum amount that can The management of the investment portfolio and the be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, changes administration of the Company have been delegated to the relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager, operating to shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct releases and any significant change in accounting policies or responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day practices must also be approved by the Board.
running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for the investment, financial and operating performance of the The Directors also have access to the advice and services of Company.
The Board has final investment authority on the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it provided by The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE, complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon.
necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights the Company.
attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company voting policy are set out on page 22. keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Committees of the Board Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the Nomination statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Committee which will meet when necessary to select and Boards responsibility to present a balanced and propose suitable candidates for appointment.
When looking understandable assessment, which extends to interim and for a new Director, the Board will assess the size, balance other price-sensitive public reports.
and profile of the Board as a whole, to identify any areas that The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of need strengthening.
Due to the specialist nature of the the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention investment mandate, and the difficulty in finding new and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Directors will try to identify suitable individuals from their Performance evaluation range of contacts, although other sources, including external The Board formally reviews performance on a regular basis search consultants, may also be used as required.
and an appraisal system has been agreed for the evaluation A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, Committee is made up of the independent Directors, including the Chairman.
The annual evaluation for the year including the Chairman of the Company.
The Board ended 31 December 2007 has been carried out.
This took the considers that at least one member of the Committee has form of questionnaires followed by discussions to identify sufficient recent and relevant financial experience for it to how the effectiveness of its activities, including its discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Committees, policies or processes might be enhanced.
The Company is a member of this Committee to enable him to be results of the evaluation process were presented to and kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
discussed by the Board and it was agreed that the current composition of the Board reflected a suitable mix of skills The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst and experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its other things, examines the effectiveness of the control Committees were functioning effectively.
The two planned meetings are held prior to the Board meeting to approve the interim and annual results, Delegation of responsibilities including the valuation of any unquoted investments.
The The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: Committee does not consider that as an investment trust company it needs to hold an additional meeting although this is kept under review.
28 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc During the year the principal activities of the Audit & to determine the remuneration of the Directors.
The Management Engagement Committee included: remuneration of the Chairman and Directors is reviewed against the fees paid to directors of other specialist reviewing the interim and annual financial statements investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable and the external Auditors report thereon: size, as well as taking account of any data published by the reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, Association of Investment Companies.
independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: Membership of the Audit & Management reviewing and approving the audit and non-audit fees Engagement Committee payable to the external Auditor and the terms of their Colin Buchan Chairman engagement: Oliver Baring Anthony Lea reviewing and approving the external Auditors plan for Gordon Sage the following financial year: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys The terms of reference of the above Committee are available accounting policies: at the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its under the Literature section, or on request from the Companys ensuring the adequacy of the internal controls systems registered office and at each Annual General Meeting.
and standards: and reviewing the investment management agreement and Attendance record the services provided by the Investment Manager.
Board Audit Number of Meetings held 5 2 The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the Number of Meetings attended whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the Anthony Lea 5 2 Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, Ian Barby 4 not a member Colin Buchan 4 2 raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of Oliver Baring 5 2 financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect Gordon Sage 5 2 the Company.
Non audit fees of 4,500 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP for Internal controls their review of the interim financial statements.
The Board The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the considers whether the skills and experience of the auditors Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring make them a suitable supplier of the non audit service and that financial information published or used within the whether the services provided are non-material and cost business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance efficient.
On an annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the with regulations governing the operation of investment independence of their relationship with the Investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal Manager and report to the Board, providing details of any control system, on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and other relationship with the Investment Manager.
The Board manage the Companys significant risks.
As part of that has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of the process, there are procedures designed to capture and Company and the Investment Manager.
evaluate any failings or weaknesses and should a case be The external Auditor is invited to attend the Audit & categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
annual accounts are considered and, at which they have the The Board is not aware of any significant failings or opportunity to meet with the Committee without weaknesses in the year.
representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, As the Board is small it with the exception of Mr Barby who compliance and risk management, is embedded in the is considered non-independent fulfils the function of the operations of the Investment Manager and BNYE.
There is a Remuneration Committee which will meet when necessary monitoring and reporting process to review these controls, Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 29 Corporate Governance Statement & Directors Responsibilities continued which has been in place throughout the year under review understandable information: and up to the date of this report, carried out by the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Investment Managers corporate audit department.
This specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
users to understand the impact of particular The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys review of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis financial position and financial performance: and and verbally at each Board and Audit & Management state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject Engagement Committee meeting.
The Audit & Management to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Engagement Committee also receives a report from BNYE on financial statements.
the internal controls of its custodial operations.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function, as all The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the administration is delegated to the Investment Manager.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time This matter is kept under review.
the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply The Board recognises that these control systems can only be with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and or loss, and relies on the operating controls established by other irregularities.
the Investment Manager and BNYE.
The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and Socially Responsible Investment management accounts which allow the Board to assess the The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
Companys activities and review its performance.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly includes research and appraisal, and also takes into account defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and environmental policies and other business issues.
Reports on these issues, including The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to performance statistics and investment valuations, are meet its stated objectives.
The Investment Managers submitted to the Board at each meeting.
policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in the UK are detailed on their Financial statements website www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Literature section.
Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Relations with shareholders Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend and European Union.
vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual The Directors are required to prepare financial statements General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and for each financial year which present fairly the financial any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the position of the Company and of the Group and the financial Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and performance and cash flows of the Company and of the related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working Group for that period.
In preparing those financial days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed statements, the Directors are required to: for substantive issues.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to consistently: shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where present information, including accounting policies, in a the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 30 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders, and it also receives reports from its corporate brokers.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder Information, on pages 59 to 61, which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
The Companys accounts are also published on www.
co. uk its which is the website maintained by the Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited.
The work undertaken by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 31
