Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p53-58.
qxd 3 3 08 22:01 Page 53 Items covered in this section: Introduction 53 The Board 53 Key Committees 55 Audit Committee 55 Nomination Committee 56 Remuneration Committee 56 Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee 56 Chief Executives Committee 57 Relations with shareowners 57 Annual General Meeting 57 Institutional investors 57 Internal control 57 US Corporate governance 58 This report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of The Board Best Practice set out in section 1 of the June 2006 FRC The Board has 12 members: three Executive Directors, and Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Cadbury nine Non-executive Directors all of whom except the Schweppes plc has complied with the provisions of the Code Chairman are deemed independent under the provisions of throughout the year.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
Collectively, the NonCadbury Schweppes plc the Group has applied the principles executive Directors bring a wide range of international set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the main experience and expertise as they all currently occupy or have principles, and supporting principles by complying with the occupied senior positions in industry and public life, and as such code, as reported above.
Further explanation of how the each contributes significant weight to Board decisions.
principles and supporting principles have been applied is set Changes to the Board since 1 January 2007 are as follows: out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report.
Rick Braddock Non-executive resigned 24 May Director 2007 The Board remains committed to the principles of good Ellen Marram Non-executive appointed 1 June corporate governance and to achieving high standards of Director 2007 business integrity, ethics and professionalism across all our Guy Elliott Non-executive appointed 27 July activities.
The Board adopted a Statement of Corporate Director 2007 Governance Principles on 16 February 2007 which explains the Rosemary Thorne Non-executive resigned 5 September principles that guide corporate governance for the Group and Director 2007 ensures that the Group acts in the best interests of its stakeholders.
The Group also has both a Financial Code of David Thompson Non-executive will resign 8 March Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Director 2008 Financial Officer and senior financial executives in the Group Sir John Sunderland Chairman will resign and a code of conduct Our Business Principles that apply at mid-2008 Board level and to all managers across the Group.
All executive members of the Board, the CEC, the Global Leadership Team Sir John Sunderland will be succeeded as Chairman by the executive managers who report to CEC members, and Roger Carr.
Biographies of each of the Directors as at the date managers are required to confirm their compliance with Our of this report, can be found on pages 48 and 49. Business Principles on an annual basis.
We have established a confidential, all employee Speaking Up helpline available in most languages, enabling employees to report concerns of breaches of Our Business Principles or usual standards of good behaviour.
The Statement of Corporate Governance Principles, Financial Code of Ethics and Our Business Principles are available on the Groups website, www.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 53 U53441 p53-58.
qxd 3 3 08 18:37 Page 54 Corporate governance report continued Board meetings and attendance: The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2007 was as follows: Corporate Strategy and Social Board 1 meeting Audit Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 10 meetings over 2 days 5 meetings 2 meetings 3 meetings 9 meetings Sir John Sunderland 10 1 n a 2 3 n a Roger Carr 10 1 3 n a 3 8 Todd Stitzer 10 1 n a 2 n a n a Ken Hanna 10 1 n a n a n a n a Bob Stack 10 1 n a 2 n a n a Sanjiv Ahuja 8 1 n a 1 1 n a Wolfgang Berndt 10 1 5 n a 1 9 1 Rick Braddock 5 1 n a n a n a 2 Lord Patten 8 1 n a 2 2 n a David Thompson 10 1 5 2 1 8 2 Rosemary Thorne 71 41 2 5 Raymond Viault 10 1 4 n a 3 6 3 Guy Elliott 4 1 1 n a n a n a 4 Ellen Marram 4 1 n a 1 n a n a NB.
n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
1 Rick Braddock resigned from the Board on 24 May 2007.
2 Rosemary Thorne resigned on 5 September 2007.
3 Guy Elliott was appointed a Non-executive Director on 27 July 2007 and has not missed a meeting since his appointment.
4 Ellen Marram was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 June 2007 and has not missed a Board meeting since her appointment.
When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting, and have the opportunity to relay their comments in advance, and if necessary follow up with the relevant Chairman of the meeting.
Role of the Board Group Secretary: The Group Secretary is responsible for The Board has responsibility for the overall management and advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, performance of the Group and the approval of its long-term ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, ensuring objectives and commercial strategy.
Whilst the Board has good information flow, facilitating induction programmes for delegated the day to day management of the Group to the Directors and assisting with Directors continuing professional Chief Executive Officer, there is a formal schedule of matters development.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and reserved for the Board by which the Board oversees control of services of the Group Secretary.
Any questions shareowners the Groups affairs.
The Chief Executive Officer is supported by may have on corporate governance matters, policies or his Executive Committee.
The Board is also assisted in carrying procedures should be addressed to the Group Secretary.
out its responsibilities by the various Board committees, including a Standing Committee consisting of any two Board effectiveness Directors which deals with routine business between Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are meetings: following a formal decision, the Board may also separate and their responsibilities are clearly defined in writing delegate authority to the Committee to facilitate finalising and approved by the Board.
The role of the Chairman is to matters within agreed parameters.
The work of the Board lead and manage the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible committees is described on pages 55 and 58. for the leadership and day to management of the Group and execution of the strategy approved by the Board.
Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings and make presentations on the results and strategies Induction: On joining the Board, Directors are given of their business units.
Board members are given appropriate background information describing the Group and its activities.
documentation in advance of each Board and Committee They receive an induction pack of information on our business.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman The pack includes guidance notes on the Group, the Group and Chief Executive Officer maintain regular contact with all structure, its operations, information on corporate governance Directors and hold informal meetings with the Non-executive and brokers reports.
Meetings are arranged with the Directors to discuss issues affecting the business.
members of the Chief Executives Committee and other senior executives below Board level from each Group function, as Independent professional advice: The Board has approved a well as some of our advisers.
Appropriate visits are arranged to procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice our sites.
Meetings are also arranged with the Group if necessary, at the Groups expense up to a maximum cost of departments who provide support to the relevant Board 25,000 p. a. each.
Before incurring professional fees the Committees the Directors will serve on.
Director concerned must consult the Chairman of the Board or two other Directors one of whom must be a non-executive.
Continuing professional development: Training seminars are No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
held for Board members at least annually.
These formal 54 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p53-58.
qxd 4 3 08 13:28 Page 55 sessions are in addition to written briefings to the Board on appraise the Chairmans performance.
During 2007, they held areas of regulatory and legislative change.
The seminar held in two such meetings chaired by Roger Carr and attended by all December 2007 covered the Takeover Code and the new the Non-executive Directors.
Key committees In 2007 Egon Zehnder undertook a formal and independent The terms of reference for all our committees are reviewed on evaluation of the Board.
The review combined qualitative a regular basis by the Board and were last reviewed in dialogue and a quantative questionaire to track Board and February 2008.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside Committee effectiveness and covered Board dynamics, legal or other independent professional advice if they consider individual Director contributions and in particular the process it necessary to do so.
The terms of reference are available on relating to the demerger and its attendant implications.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its committees function effectively and when issues are raised for Audit Committee consultation there is a thorough debate and effective decision Members: David Thompson Chairman, Roger Carr, Wolfgang making.
Governance and Board processes in general are Berndt, Raymond Viault, Guy Elliott from 6 December 2007. robust.
The process of communication to the Board and The Committee consists solely of independent Non-executive individual directors has been stated but not, at the time of Directors, all of whom have extensive financial experience in reporting concluded.
All Committee members, except Guy Elliott held office throughout the year and at the date of this External directorships for Executive Directors report.
The Board has determined that David Thompson is an Subject to certain conditions, and unless otherwise determined Audit Committee financial expert as defined by the US by the Board, each executive Director is permitted to accept Securities and Exchange Commission.
Other than the one appointment as a Non-executive Director of another Chairman of the Committee, as described in the Directors listed company.
The Board considers that executive Directors Remuneration Report.
Members do not receive additional fees can gain valuable experience and knowledge through such for serving on the Committee.
Details of the fees received by the Directors for external appointments can be found in the Directors At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Remuneration Report on page 65.
Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, and Group Secretary, Corporate Finance Director, Non-executive Directors Director, Financial Control, Director of Business Risk The Board reviews the independence of all Non-executive Management, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor Directors annually and has determined that all such directors attend meetings.
The Director of Group Secretariat attends and except Sir John Sunderland are independent and have no is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met five times cross-directorships or significant links which could materially in 2007, meeting separately with the external auditors in interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
February and July, and with the internal auditors in July.
The David Thompson was considered to remain independent Chairman also holds preparatory meetings with the Groups despite having served on the Board for more than nine years, senior management as appropriate prior to Committee following a thorough review of his continued independence meetings.
All Directors have access to the minutes of all the and suitability.
He will retire from the Board on 8 March 2008.
Committees meetings and are free to attend.
We made no payments to third parties for any of the The composition and role of the Audit Committee is reviewed Non-executive Directors services.
annually against the recommendations made in the Smith Report published in 2003, and complies with all of that Senior Independent Non-executive Director: Roger Carr is Reports recommendations.
the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and our Deputy Chairman.
Rogers responsibilities include meeting Key duties: major shareowners as and when requested and chairing Responsible for all accounting matters and financial meetings of the Non-executive Directors without executive reporting matters prior to submission to the Board for management or the Chairman being present.
A new Senior endorsement: Independent Non-executive Director will be appointed when To monitor the integrity of the Groups financial Roger Carr becomes Chairman in mid 2008. statements and ensure that they meet the relevant legislative and regulatory requirements that apply to them, Terms of appointment: Other than Sir John Sunderland, who and are in accordance with accepted accounting standards: was appointed for an initial term of one year, extended to mid To review major changes in accounting policies and practices: 2008, Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term To review the Groups internal controls and their of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, effectiveness: they may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a To review the Groups statements and practices on internal thorough review of their continued independence and suitability controls including section 404 Sarbanes-Oxley to continue as Directors being undertaken if they are to remain certification and other aspects of corporate governance: on the Board for more than nine years.
The terms and To review the effectiveness of the external audit process, conditions of appointment for the non-executives are the Groups relationship with the external auditors summarised in the Directors remuneration report on page 65 including fees, and make recommendations on the and are available on request from the Group Secretary.
appointment and dismissal of the external auditors: To consider the annual report on internal audit and the Meetings of Non-executive Directors effectiveness of internal control, reviewing the Groups The Non-executive Directors meet separately without the internal audit process and the audit plan for the Chairman being present at least once a year principally to Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 55 U53441 p53-58.
qxd 3 3 08 16:28 Page 56 Corporate governance report continued following year: another suitably qualified auditor in its place.
The reTo review the provision and scope of audit and non-audit appointment of the external auditor is submitted for approval work by the external auditor and the fees charged: annually by the shareowners at the Annual General Meeting.
To receive reports from the Speaking Up programme established to investigate in confidence complaints from Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2007 can employees and others : be found at Note 6 in the financial statements.
To receive semi-annual reports on Group legal matters including litigation: Nomination Committee To receive an annual review of the effectiveness of Members: Sir John Sunderland Chairman, Sanjiv Ahuja, the Committee: Roger Carr, Lord Patten, Raymond Viault.
To review corporate governance developments in the UK and US and the Groups response to these Wolfgang Berndt, David Thompson, the Chief Executive developments: and Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer attend meetings To monitor the Groups risk management and business at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Legal Officer and Group Secretary also attends and is secretary to the Committee.
This Committee is empowered to bring to In addition to carrying out the above duties, in 2007 the the Board recommendations regarding the appointment of Committees agenda included considering the effect of any new executive or Non-executive Director, provided that accounting for changes to UK corporate legislation, the the Chairman, in developing such recommendations, consults separation of American Beverages and work to redefine the all Directors and reflects that consultation in any role and operation of Internal Audit.
recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee ensures that a review of Board candidates is Non-audit services: In line with the requirements of undertaken in a disciplined and objective manner.
Sarbanes-Oxley, Group policy prohibits the external auditor from carrying out certain categories of non-audit services.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for succession The list of such services may only be varied by the Audit planning for the Board.
The Board as a whole is responsible Committee.
for development plans, including the progressive refreshing of the Board, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The plans The external auditor is permitted to undertake some non-audit involve an annual objective and comprehensive evaluation of services, for example due diligence activities associated with the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses by the Group, We have recently appointed two new non-executives, and but these services and their associated fees must be approved four of the longest serving non-executives have retired or will in advance by the Committee.
Where such services are soon retire.
The re-elections proposed at the AGM reflect the considered recurring in nature, approval may be sought for the Boards policy on its development.
full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad During 2007, the Committee met three times to review hoc basis.
Where no Committee meeting is scheduled within succession planning, the appointment of Ellen Marram and an appropriate time frame, the approval is sought from the Guy Elliott as new Non-executive Directors, the appointment Chairman of the Committee.
of a new Chairman and the appointment of non-executives to the board of DPSG, Inc, the beverages business to be With effect from February 2008, the pre-approval process has fide-merged, subject to shareowner approval in 2008.
External been amended to enable the Committee to pre-approve the search consultants were engaged to produce a list of audit and non audit service categories that can be provided by candidates for these appointments.
These lists were then Deloitte & Touche LLP and agreed monetary amounts for reduced to a short list of candidates which were discussed each service category that can be provided by them, subject to between the Chairman and the other members of the a maximum individual engagement value.
The service will Nomination Committee.
The Directors then met the preferred continue to require specific pre-approval from the Audit candidates and their nominations were presented to the Board Committee or the Audit Committee Chairman.
Where for approval at the next Board meeting.
requests for pre approvals either do not fall within preapproved category limits, or where a service value exceeds the Remuneration Committee maximum individual engagement value.
There will continue to Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, be no fide minimis amount allowed.
together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital, are on page 59.
Auditor independence: The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent of the Group.
In Corporate and Social Responsibility committee addition, the Committee receives written confirmation from Members: Lord Patten Chairman, Sanjiv Ahuja, David the external auditor as to any relationships which may be Thompson, Bob Stack, Todd Stitzer, Sir John Sunderland.
The reasonably thought to influence its independence.
The external following directors attend at the invitation of the Chairman: auditor also confirms whether it considers itself independent Raymond Viault, Wolfgang Berndt, Roger Carr, Henry Udow.
within the meaning of the UK and US regulatory and professional requirements, as well as within the meaning of This Committee focuses on corporate and social responsibility applicable US federal securities laws and the requirements matters in relation to the environment, employment practices, of the Independence Standards Board in the US.
health and safety, equal opportunities and diversity, community and social investment, ethical trading and human rights, and Other issues: In appropriate circumstances, the Committee other aspects of ethical business practice.
Lord Patten was is empowered to dismiss the external auditor and appoint appointed Chairman on 1 January 2007.
Further details of the 56 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 p53-58.
qxd 3 3 08 16:29 Page 57 Groups approach to corporate and social responsibility matters The Directors are supported by our Investor Relations can be found in the Description of Business section on page 15 department IR, which is in regular contact with institutional and in the Companys biennial Corporate and Social investors, analysts and brokers.
An IR report is produced for Responsibility report.
each Board meeting: this includes direct feedback from institutional investors provided by our external advisors Chief Executives Committee including Goldman Sachs, UBS and Makinson Cowell.
In Todd Stitzer Chairman, Henry Udow, Jim Chambers, Steve addition, the Board commissions an annual independent audit Driver, Ken Hanna, David Macnair, Tamara Minick-Scokalo of institutional investors views on our management and from 2 January 2007, Matt Shattock, Bob Stack, Rajiv Wahi, strategy.
These measures ensure Board members develop Mark Reckitt from 2 January 2007 and Chris Van an understanding of the views of our major shareowners.
The Director of Group Secretariat also attends and is secretary to the Committee.
Internal control The Directors have responsibility for the system of internal The CEC deals with major operational and management issues control that covers all aspects of the business and is part of including the review of monthly financial results and forecasts, an ongoing risk management process.
In recognition of that proposals for capital expenditure and major operating issues.
responsibility, the Directors set policies and seek regular assurance that the system of internal control is operating Relations with shareowners effectively.
Strategic, commercial, operational, financial and Our shareowners are very important to us.
All shareowners EHS risk areas are all within the scope of these activities receive regular communications from the Group and a full which also include identifying, evaluating and managing the Annual Report is available by election or on request.
trading updates are published via the London Stock Exchange and by press release, and appear on our website.
Presentations The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system and webcasts on the development of the business are available of internal control.
However, the Directors are aware that on the website.
such a system cannot totally eliminate risks and thus there can never be an absolute assurance against the Group failing to Annual General Meeting AGM achieve its objectives or a material loss arising.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity for individual shareowners to question the Chairman, and through him The key elements of the system may be described as the the chairmen of the various Board Committees and other control environment, and this is represented by the following: Directors.
At the AGM there will be statements by the The key business objectives are clearly specified at all levels Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and all the Directors within the Groups Purpose and Values, a framework for plan to attend.
our strategic intent, and Our Business Principles, a set of guidelines on legal compliance and ethical behaviour, are Directors are submitted for reappointment by the shareowners distributed throughout the Group: at regular intervals.
At each Annual General Meeting, not less The organisation structure is set out with full details of than one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation.
In reporting lines and accountabilities and appropriate limits addition, any Director who has been a Director at either of of authority for different processes: the two previous Annual General Meetings but who has not Procedures to ensure compliance with external regulations: retired by rotation, and any Director who was appointed since The network of disclosure review committees which exists the last Annual General Meeting, must retire.
throughout the Group described below : Procedures to learn from control failures and to drive Details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed continuous improvement in control effectiveness: together with explanatory notes are set out in the Notice of A wide range of corporate policies deal, amongst other Meeting which is sent to shareowners.
Shareowners attending things, with control issues for corporate governance, will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each management accounting, financial reporting, project resolution, in the categories for and against, together with appraisal, environment, social responsibility, health and the number of votes withheld.
All resolutions will be voted safety, information technology, and risk management on by poll, the results of which will be announced to the generally: London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Individual business units operate on the basis of multi-year contracts with monthly reports on Institutional investors performance and regular dialogues with Group The Group engages with its institutional investors on a day-tosenior management on progress: day basis via the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief On an annual basis the CEC, Audit Committee and then Financial Officer.
The Senior Independent Non-executive the Board consider and agree the major risks facing the Director and other members of the Board are also available to business and these risks are used to focus and prioritise risk meet major shareowners on request.
The Chairman contacts management, control and compliance activities across the the top 10 shareowners each year with an offer to meet organization.
The key risks facing the Group are them.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Nonsummarised on pages 21 to 24: executive Director, Roger Carr is also available to shareowners Various internal assurance departments, including Group when contact with the executive Directors or the Chairman Audit, carry out regular reviews of the effectiveness of risk may not be appropriate.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief management, control and compliance processes and report Financial Officer meet with institutional investors in the UK, their findings to the business unit involved as well as to the US and continental Europe on a regular basis.
In June Group management and the Audit Committee: and 2007, they hosted a seminar for institutional investors, analysts The Audit Committee approves plans for control selfand brokers in London and New York.
assessment activities by business units and regions as well Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 57 U53441 p53-58.
qxd 3 3 08 18:45 Page 58 Corporate governance report continued as the annual Group Audit activity plan.
The Committee The Boards annual review of the system of internal control also deals with significant issues raised by internal assurance has not identified any failings or weaknesses which it has departments or the external auditor.
determined to be significant, and therefore no remedial actions are necessary.
Accordingly, the Directors confirm that The management of all forms of business risk continues to be in compliance with principle C. 2 of the Combined Code, the an important factor in the creation and protection of value for system of internal control for the year ended 31 December our shareowners.
The processes involved call for the 2007 and the period up to 4 March 2008 has been reviewed identification of specific risks that could affect the business, the in line with the criteria set out in the Turnbull guidance assessment of those risks in terms of their potential impact currently applicable.
and the likelihood of those risks materialising.
Decisions are then taken as to the most appropriate method of managing US Corporate governance them.
These may include regular monitoring, investment of Because we are a UK company with our shares listed on additional resources, transfer to third parties via insurance or the New York Stock Exchange NYSE as well as the London hedging agreements and contingency planning.
For insurance, Stock Exchange, we are required to comply with some of there is a comprehensive global programme which utilises an the NYSE Corporate Governance rules, and otherwise internal captive structure for lower level risks and the external must disclose any significant ways in which our corporate market only for cover on major losses.
Hedging activities relate governance practices differ from those followed by US to financial and commodity risks and these are managed by companies under the NYSE listing standards.
We comply with the Group Treasury and Procurement departments with all the NYSE rules which apply to non-US issuers.
The NYSE external cover for the net Group exposures see pages 42 to rules require the Nomination Committee to be composed 44. entirely of independent directors, and require this committee to consider corporate governance matters on behalf of All business units are required to regularly review their the Board.
As our nomination committee is not entirely principal business risks and related strategies i. e. the chosen independent, because it is chaired by Sir John Sunderland, who management methods.
The internal assurance departments was formerly an Executive Director, the Audit Committee and other Group functions report on any further business risks considers corporate governance matters on behalf of the evident at a regional, global or corporate level.
This committee is composed entirely of independent global status reports assessing the extent to which all major Directors.
The NYSE rules allow a committee other than the risks have been effectively mitigated are prepared every six Nomination Committee to fulfil this role as long as all of its months and are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
A structure members are independent directors.
of central Group and regional risk and compliance committees came into operation from January 2007.
Sir John Sunderland Chairman The Group also established in 2002 a network of disclosure review committees DRC throughout the organisation.
The 4 March 2008 Group DRC, chaired by the Chief Legal Officer and comprising senior executives at and below Board level, reviews financial and trading statements and releases, and the verification process which underpins these.
Meetings are attended by the Groups external auditors, and UK and US legal advisors.
It ensures that such statements and releases are accurate and complete and comply with all relevant legislation and regulation.
Each region and function is required to have its own DRC reporting to the Group DRC to ensure that interim and full year financial reporting is accurate and that all matters which may be material to the Group as a whole have been reported to the Board.
The Group DRC reports its findings to the Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
At the year end, the Groups only significant associate is Camelot, which is managed in line with its shareowner agreement.
The Group is subject to the requirements of the US SarbanesOxley Act as a result of the listing of its American Depository Receipts ADRs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Internal controls have been evaluated and enhanced.
where necessary to comply with section 404 of that Act.
Testing of these controls will be completed prior to the filing of the Companys Form 20-F with the US SEC in early April, and a report on compliance with this legislation will be made in that document.
58 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
