Statement of Corporate Governance Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
It has Introduction formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, framework for corporate governance, which it believes is operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance management policies.
the Code as appended to the Listing Rules.
Additionally, the monitoring of the business activities of the Company the Association of Investment Companies AIC published a ranging from analysis of investment performance through Code on Corporate Governance in July 2003 as amended in to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance February 2006 which complements the Code and represents analysis.
a framework of best practice in certain areas of governance Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the where the specific characteristics of investment companies interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and suggest alternative approaches that may be preferable to recommendation of the interim and final dividends those set out in the Code.
There is a certain amount of respectively.
overlap with the Code, although the focus of attention is on setting the level of gearing which the Manager may the points of difference.
Board appointments and removals and the related terms Application of the Code subject to appropriate Shareholder approval.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms good governance and this statement describes how the and conditions of the management and administration principles identified in the Code have been applied by the agreements relating thereto.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning The exception to compliance with the Code, which is matters decided by the Board.
explained more fully under the heading of Internal Controls is as follows: In addition there were three meetings of the Audit there is no separate internal audit function C 3.5.
Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, one meeting of the Management Engagement Committee The Board and three other Board Committee meetings.
The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
whom are considered to be independent of the Manager During the year Mr Benson was appointed senior Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and independent non-executive Director.
free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
It independent professional advice, if necessary, at the should be noted that: Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so.
appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 20 to 21 of this under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good report and indicate their high level and range of industrial, information flows with the Board and its committees, as commercial and professional experience, within an well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional international perspective.
for advising through the Chairman on all corporate The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and governance matters.
ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
During the year ended 31 December 2007 the Board met When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is seven times and also held a Strategy Meeting.
The primary arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular focus at regular Board Meetings is a review of investment basis, with key information on the Companys policies, performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the Murray International Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to Committees the Board as they arise.
The composition of the Committees is shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee Committee are available on request and copies are also meetings, held during the year as shown below with their available on the Companys website.
eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : Nomination Committee Board and Management A Nomination Committee has been established with written Strategy Audit Engagement terms of reference, copies of which are available upon Meetings Committees Committees request and also on the Company's website, and comprises Attended attended attended the following members, all of whom are independent from any relationship that would interfere with impartial J F H Trott 7 7 0 0 1 1 judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Lady Balfour 6 7 3 3 1 1 of Burleigh Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee D H Benson 6 7 3 3 1 1 Lady Balfour of Burleigh J D Best 7 7 3 3 1 1 Mr D H Benson A C Shedden 6 7 3 3 1 1 Mr J D Best Mr A C Shedden To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of the following matters: Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of the identification and nomination of candidates to fill papers, including the Managers review and discussion Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried further enquiries where necessary.
out by an independent firm of consultants: plans for succession: The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and conclusion of their specified term of office: individual interviews between the Chairman and the other the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board of Association: and Committees.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The Board is satisfied with the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. its current composition, performance and the contributions Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the of its Directors during the year.
position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
External Agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, The Committee recommended to the Board the nomination including the Manager and other service providers, certain for re-election of Mr J Trott and Mr Benson, who are both services: the management of the investment portfolio, the seeking re-election after seven and eight years of service custodial services which include the safeguarding of the respectively and having attained the age of 70 since the last assets, the registration services and the day to day AGM.
The Committee concluded that their knowledge and accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of experience are greatly valued by the Board.
Details of their these contracts was entered into after full and proper other directorships are shown on page 20. consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Audit Committee The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager An Audit Committee has been established with written terms on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information of reference, copies of which are available upon request and are supplied to the Board as requested.
also on the Company's website, and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: 28 Murray International Trust PLC Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Details of attendance at the Management Engagement Lady Balfour of Burleigh Committee are shown on page 28.
Mr D H Benson Mr J D Best Remuneration Committee Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules 15.4.
15R, The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed where an investment trust has only non-executive Directors, and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
These the Code principles relating to Directors remuneration do include: not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration the review of the effectiveness of the internal control Committee, comprising the following members: environment of the Company to assist in this the Company receives reports from the internal and external Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee auditors on a regular basis: Mr D H Benson the review of the annual accounts and interim report: Mr J D Best the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors Mr A C Shedden together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors if applicable : The new Combined Code recommends that all the members the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the of the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration independence and objectivity of the Auditors it should be of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, change the a calibre appropriate to the future development of the partner responsible for the audit every five years : Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, the review of the Auditors management letter and the together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is management response: detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 the review of the management agreement: and and 34. meetings with representatives of the Manager.
Directors Terms of Appointment Details of attendance at the Audit Committee are shown on All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term page 28. of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its Association, stand for election at the first Annual General auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of procedures in place that instil professional values as part of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for reits firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of election at least once every three years.
Any Director who objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance is independent.
Any Director who reaches the age of 70 is currently subject to annual re-election.
The Directors Management Engagement Committee are proposing to amend this particular Article and As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management shareholders attention is drawn to the accompanying Engagement Committee has been established with written circular for further information on this.
terms of reference, copies of which are available upon request and on the Company's website, all of whom are Policy on Tenure independent and free from any relationship that would The Board takes the view that independence is not interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board responsibilities: and that experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
In line with best practice, the Boards policy is for Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Directors who have been on the Board for more than nine Lady Balfour of Burleigh years to retire at each subsequent Annual General Meeting Mr D H Benson and submit themselves for annual re-election.
Mr J D Best Mr A C Shedden Communication with Shareholders It annually reviews matters concerning the management The Company places a great deal of importance on agreement which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an Limited.
Details of the management agreement are shown on annual programme of meetings with institutional page 25 of the Annual Report.
Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these The Independent Auditors Report is on pages 35 and 36. meetings.
Internal Control The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures The Board of Directors of Murray International Trust has that, when shares in Murray International Trust are held in overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal the name of nominee companies and notification has been control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors received in advance, nominee companies will be provided confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general Company, that has been in place for the full year under meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Chairman.
Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will the Company and the policies and procedures by which these complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it risks are managed.
to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting The Directors have delegated the investment management of are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the the Companys assets to the Manager within overall Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before of internal control, including financial, operational and the Annual General Meeting.
compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting function which undertakes periodic examination of business and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors processes, including compliance with the terms of the Report on pages 21 to 24. management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting management framework by each function within the is an event for all Shareholders and encourages them to Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to TurnbuIl guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and number of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required with on a show of hands.
is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the The key components designed to provide effective internal free Shareholder information telephone service run by the control for the year under review and up to the date of this Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to Report are outlined below: letters from Shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with major Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these the Investment Manager prepares forecasts and visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the other publications can be downloaded is maintained on Companys activities and review its investment www.
co. uk performance: the Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly Accountability and Audit defined investment criteria: specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the these issues, including performance statistics and Financial Statements is on page 32 and the Statement of investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and 25.
30 Murray International Trust PLC financial analysis of the companies concerned include which may affect the performance or value of the detailed appraisal and due diligence: Companys investments.
The Directors, through the as a matter of course the compliance department of Companys Manager, encourage companies in which Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area Investment Managers operations: of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be written agreements are in place which specifically define achieved by entering into a dialogue with company the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager management to encourage them, where necessary, to and other third party service providers: improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate the Board has considered the need for an internal audit objective however is to deliver superior investment return for function but, because of the compliance and internal their clients.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to control systems in place at the Investment Manager, has favour companies which pursue best practice in the above decided to place reliance on the Investment Managers areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the systems and internal audit procedures: and investment portfolio.
twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Proxy voting as an Institutional Investor Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investee company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors Murray International Trust PLC 31
