NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT On 13 June 2007, the Company graduated from the Alternative Investment Market AIM of the London Stock Exchange to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority in line with the commitment made at the time of its AIM admission in November 2005.
This is, therefore, the first period in which the Company has been required to apply the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA and to include a statement of corporate governance in its Annual Report relating to its compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code 2006 on Corporate Governance.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate governance.
This statement describes how the Company has applied the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, and up to the date of this report, and provides explanations of those areas where it has not complied.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Group is controlled through its board of directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable them to meet these objectives and review performance: as a consequence, it is responsible for the success of the Group.
At 31 December 2007, the board comprised of 10 directors of whom seven are executive, including the executive chairman, and three are non-executive.
The directors are aware that this does not meet the Combined Code requirement for a majority of the board to be independent non-executives, including a nonexecutive Chairman, but consider, that the composition of the Board is appropriate, having regard to the size and current stage of development of the Company combined with the fact that a significant amount of the equity is owned by employees and their related interests.
The posts of chairman and chief executive are held by different directors.
On the resignation of Sir Dominic Cadbury as senior independent non-executive director on 15 March 2007, the Board appointed John Craig as a senior independent non-executive director.
The senior independent non-executive director meets the non-executive directors at least once a year to assess the performance of the Chairman.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not or cannot be resolved through discussions with the chairman or the executive directors.
The names of the directors at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out on pages 18 and 19.
The Board met six times during the year.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision and approval.
These include responsibility for the Groups overall management, its long-term objectives and commercial strategy, the approval of its accounts and dividends, the Group budget, the maintenance and effective regulation of the Groups framework of internal control, risk management and corporate governance and the delegation of authority to committees and individual directors.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Executive Committee to cover the day-to-day application of: the Groups strategy and management policy: the financial reporting, internal controls and dayto-day running of the business.
The directors are aware of the risks inherent in the Groups business and understand the importance of identifying and evaluating these risks.
The Board has adopted procedures and controls that enable it to manage these risks.
The Groups principal regulator is the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
The Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information to allow it to perform its duties.
All directors receive a monthly board pack on the financial performance of the Group including profitability, key performance indicators, assets under management and fund performance data.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense.
In order to ensure that all Board decisions are taken in the interests of the Group, Directors are required to disclose their interests and cannot vote on any matter in which they have a material interest.
24 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and each director, to ensure that they continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their respective duties.
After the year-end, an evaluation, taking into account developments over the year and specific references to the objectives of the Board and its Committees, was completed by each director.
The responses were analysed and the results were discussed at a meeting between the Chairman and the directors.
Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors met without the presence of the Chairman to discuss the results of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board includes non-executive directors who bring independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
In compliance with the Combined Code, the Board has determined that two of the non-executive directors who served throughout the year and as at the date of this report, John Craig and David Gamble, were regarded as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Martin Smith, the third non-executive director, has a sufficient interest in a number of ordinary shares as set out on page 33 such that he is not considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The non-executive directors each have letters of appointment, which set out the terms of their appointment and their expected time commitment.
INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has appointed an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Risk Management Committee to assist in the execution of its duties.
All of these Committees operate with written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and the chairman of each Committee reports regularly to the Board.
Details of each committee, its membership and terms of reference are shown in the relevant sections below.
Each Committee is authorised, at the Companys expense, to obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of each Committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and external advisers, may be invited to attend.
25 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Risk Management Nomination 7 meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 3 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 1 meeting EXECUTIVE John Duffield 7 4 1 Michael Astor 6 Howard Covington 7 John Jay 5 Richard Pease 6 Rupert Ruvigny 7 4 Mark Skinner 6 NON-EXECUTIVE John Craig 7 3 4 3 David Gamble 7 3 4 1 Martin Smith 6 2 3 1 Dominic Cadbury11 1 appointed resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Committees on 15 March 2007.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is chaired by John Duffield and membership comprises the other six executive directors, together with John Mould company secretary and chief operating officer, Gregor Logan joint chief investment officer, Stephen Whittaker joint chief investment officer, Ravi Anand head of corporate finance and structured products, Mark Beale deputy chief investment officer and Roger Dossett head of property.
The Executive Committee meets on a fortnightly basis and oversees and supervises the business and strategy of the Group.
The Executive Committee is authorised by the Board of Directors to take decisions or investigate any matter within its terms of reference, to report and make recommendations to the Board, through the executive chairman or the chief executive, on any management issue relating to the Groups operations.
It is accountable to the Board of Directors on the implementation of strategy, the performance of the Company and its subsidiary companies and ensuring that day-to-day operations are conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
The Executive Committees purpose is to support the chairman and chief executive in their oversight of the Groups affairs and the pursuit of the Groups corporate objectives by interpreting and implementing the Group Strategy and monitoring business performance in pursuit of this.
The Committee may make decisions on the day-to-day running of the business within the authorities delegated to it, establish priorities and discuss and agree responses to issues.
Its principal responsibilities are: Strategy and Management: Corporate Structure and Capital: Financial Reporting and Controls: Internal Controls and Corporate Governance: Remuneration: Communication: Approval of Group Policies and other administrative policy decisions.
26 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by John Craig and its other members during the year were David Gamble, Martin Smith and Dominic Cadbury up to his resignation.
All of the members of the committee are nonexecutive directors.
The Board is aware that the audit committee does not meet the requirements of the Combined Code as it includes Martin Smith, who is not considered to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member, John Craig, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and senior management, including the finance director, may be invited to attend for all or part of the meetings.
The external auditors of the Company will attend the meetings on a regular basis and have unrestricted access to the committee and its chairman.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the half year and preliminary announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration and cost-effectiveness of the external auditor and discusses annually the proposed nature and scope of their work.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee when reviewing the non-audit services provided by the external auditor seeks to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of the review.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee met three times during the year, with representatives from senior management and KPMG Audit PLC in attendance at each meeting.
One meeting held early in the year reviewed the principles of governance and the effectiveness of internal controls and agreed the scope and planning of the audit.
Subsequent meetings reviewed the year-end financial statements, the Groups trading statements prior to release, the interim financial statements, the continued appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and the external auditors year-end report.
The Committee also considered and made the recommendation to the Board as to the appointment of the external auditors and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Group does not currently have an independent internal audit department.
During the year, the Committee considered the need for an internal audit department.
The internal compliance and risk department carries out a number of functions similar to an internal audit department as well as being responsible for ensuring compliance with the different regulatory rules.
In addition, where it is considered necessary or appropriate, third parties may be asked to undertake reviews.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports formally to the board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its remit.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Duffield and its other members during the year were John Craig and Martin Smith.
The Board is aware that the Remuneration Committee does not meet the requirements of the Combined Code as it is chaired by the executive chairman.
The Group believes that for its size and stage of its development that this is appropriate.
In January 2008, Martin Smith resigned as a member of the Committee and David Gamble was nominated to join the Remuneration Committee, ensuring that the two other members were both independent non-executive directors.
27 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year.
The chief executive and other senior management and external advisers may be invited to attend meetings as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee will consider all material elements of remuneration policy, remuneration and incentives of executive directors and senior employees with reference where necessary to independent remuneration research and professional advice in accordance with the Combined Code and will make recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee granted options to new employees under the 2007 Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that new share incentive plans or major changes to existing share plans are put to the Board and to the shareholders for approval.
Further details of the scope of the committee are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 34.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE During the year, a Nomination Committee was established.
The Committee is chaired by John Duffield and its other members during the year were David Gamble and Martin Smith.
In January 2008, Martin Smith resigned as a member of the Committee and John Craig was nominated to join the Nomination Committee, ensuring that the two other members were both independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year, and as and when required.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for recommending new members for appointment to the Board.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and to ensure an appropriate process is in place to consider new appointments and also succession planning.
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the appointment of new Directors and for nominating them for election by shareholders following their appointment.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Risk Management Committee is chaired by Rupert Ruvigny and its other members are John Craig and David Gamble, both of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
The Risk Management Committee meets as required and at least four times a year.
The head of compliance and operational risk and the head of performance and investment risk may be invited to attend meetings as the Risk Management Committee considers appropriate.
The Risk Management Committee reports to the Board.
The Risk Management Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Group has effective controls over performance and investment risk, compliance, operational and counter party risk.
It receives the reports of the monthly meetings of the Portfolio Review Committee reviewing investment risk and the reports on compliance issues and forthcoming regulatory changes and initiatives and reviews counterparty and credit risk.
It is responsible for the review of operational risk procedures and internal controls and to ensure that the risk management requirements of the Groups principal regulator, the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom, and its other regulators around the world are met.
Performance and investment risk analysis is undertaken by a team that monitors and reviews portfolios.
The team concentrates its analysis on the risk exposure within each portfolio and its suitability compared to its investment objectives.
They provide quantitative risk measurement to enable the fund managers to monitor their risk exposures as well as providing detailed performance attribution to enable the managers to see the contribution to return from asset allocation and stock selection.
Various third-party performance and risk engines such as Style Research, Portfolio Analyser and BarraOne are utilised to support this analysis.
28 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE continued A Portfolio Review Committee chaired by one of the joint chief investment officers meets monthly to review performance and investment risks and to institute appropriate action in the event of breaches of internal or external guidelines.
It includes the Head of Performance Risk, the Compliance Director, the Sales and Marketing Director and senior investment officers.
In addition, there are sub-committees that meet at least quarterly, each responsible for derivatives, UK property and international property.
Reports from the various sub-committees are reviewed by the Risk Management Committee.
A compliance and operational risk team is responsible for ensuring that appropriate procedures and controls are in place throughout the business and that the Group complies with relevant UK and overseas regulatory rules.
The compliance and operational risk team also monitors the risk management and control procedures of outsourced service suppliers in conjunction with the relevant operational area.
The Compliance and Operational Risk team produces quarterly compliance reports to the Risk Management Committee and the Board covering compliance and regulatory matters, operational risk for each area of the business and the effectiveness of the internal controls, including an operational risk heat map, which concentrates on the operational risk within the key business areas.
INTERNAL CONTROL In accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and the management of significant risks.
The Board sets appropriate polices on internal control: seeks regular assurance that enable it to satisfy itself that the system is functioning effectively: and ensures that the system of internal control is effective in managing risks.
The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high-level internal control arrangements.
Such a system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
Much of the Groups work in the area of risk management is facilitated by the Risk Management Committee.
Its role is advisory and is to assist the Board in ensuring that the Group has effective control of the compliance, operational, performance, investment and credit risks within the business.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY The company secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY New Star promotes high ethical standards amongst employees to ensure all clients are treated fairly and has in place a code of ethics including personal trading rules.
New Stars operations have minimal direct environmental impact given the nature of its business.
29 NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Where practicable throughout the year, the Company meets and makes presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
These include meetings following the announcement of the interim and annual results with the Companys largest institutional shareholders.
The senior independent director is available on request to meet shareholders should they have concerns that contact through the normal channels may not have resolved, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all directors and the chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are all available to answer questions.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, at which they have the opportunity to ask questions.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
The Company will announce the number of proxy votes cast on each resolution at the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings and will publish the results of the votes on the Companys website.
The Group maintains a corporate website, www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, including presentations.
The website is updated with all formal communications to the investment community immediately following their release through a recognised news service.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements on page 35.
