CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board considers that the Company is compliant with the Combined Code, other than in the areas detailed on page 49.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability which will assist the Board in its key functions, are prerequisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies are on page 34.
Andrew Shilston intends to retire as a non-executive director of the Company at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008.
Mr Shilston has been a director of the Company since November 2004 and has made a significant contribution in his role both as an independent non-executive director and as chairman of the audit committee during an exciting and momentous period for the Company.
Following Mr Shilstons retirement, if the directors who are seeking re-election at the AGM are re-elected, the Board will comprise the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The Board is currently looking to appoint additional independent non-executive directors to provide relevant experience, diversity and to complement existing non-executive strength and facilitate succession planning.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman, is Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
A key responsibility for the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or the Chief Executive or Finance Director.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director takes the lead when the non-executive directors assess the performance of the Chairman, further details of which are set out on page 41.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The Board delegates operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis to the GMB, which comprises the executive directors and senior management.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
During 2007, seven scheduled meetings of the Board were held, all of which were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out on page 45.
During the year, certain further meetings took place to deal with specific matters which required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure which sets out when those matters must be considered at a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors one of whom must be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman and two executive directors.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
40 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Since the IPO of Cairn India on the BSE and the NSE at the start of 2007, the agenda for each Board meeting has included a detailed update on matters in respect of the Groups Indian business from those directors of the Company who also sit in a non-executive capacity on the board of Cairn India, currently Sir Bill Gammell, Norman Murray and Malcolm Thoms.
The Chief Executive of Cairn India, Rahul Dhir, also frequently attends parts of the meetings to ensure that the Board is kept fully briefed on matters relating to Cairn India.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, members of the GMB and certain of the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2007 held a number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
For example, at the meeting of the Board in December 2007, the Cairn Professor of Petroleum Engineering from Heriot Watt University a position recently created through an alliance between the Company and the University spoke to the Board about enhanced oil recovery techniques and their applications.
These seminars were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2008.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Performance Evaluations The Board has a formal annual process of rigorous performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource.
The Board has decided, however, that there is value in conducting the process internally to develop an appropriately tailored approach and benefit first hand from direct input from individual directors.
The performance evaluation of the Board and the Board committees was primarily based upon answers to a detailed questionnaire which had been updated since the previous years evaluation and which was prepared internally.
The questionnaire was distributed to all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, performance against objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
One particular area that the questionnaire addressed was the performance of those directors who are also non-executive directors of Cairn India in respect of the stewardship of that part of the Groups business.
The questionnaire addressed all of the issues raised by the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors.
The review process carried out pursuant to the questionnaires can be summarised as follows: Evaluators Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Evaluating Board Chairman Board committees Executive directors Non-executive directors Self-assessment Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a meeting with each director and the Company Secretary individually to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Companys senior independent non-executive director, sought the views of the executive directors and met with each of the other non-executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to discuss and assess the Chairmans performance.
The results of this review were then discussed with the Chairman.
The Board not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
The evaluation indicated areas for improvement, but no significant problems were identified.
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and the process for such review will continue to be reviewed by the Board in order to optimise the process.
The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonuses payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further on page 62 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
In particular, the process considered the independence of Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
Hamish Grossart Since Mr Grossart has served on the Board for more than nine years, in terms of the Combined Code he can be counted as independent only if the Board deems him to be so.
Mr Grossart commits a substantial amount of time to the affairs of the Company.
Mr Grossart has also been the Deputy Chairman and a member of the Companys nomination, remuneration and audit committees for a number of years and has been the Companys senior independent non-executive director since the role was created in 2003.
Mr Grossart is a well respected and highly experienced businessman with a thorough knowledge of the Groups business.
The Board is aware that PIRC have queried whether Mr Grossart can be classed as an independent director of the Company.
It is understood, however, that in terms of its internal policies, PIRC does not consider any non-executive director who has been on a board for more than nine years to be independent, notwithstanding that the Combined Code permits the Board to determine a director with this length of tenure to be independent.
Accordingly, the Board has rigorously reviewed the matter, without Mr Grossart being present.
Having undergone such a process, the Board is firmly of the view that Mr Grossart remains independent in character and judgement, that his performance continues to be effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
In particular, the Board noted that Mr Grossart does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long-term incentive plans or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
Mr Grossart has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Grossart to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
The Board believes Mr Grossarts considerable business experience enables him to continue to challenge rigorously the executive directors, the Board and the committees on which he sits in both a constructive and appropriate manner and brings a longer-term perspective of the Company and the oil industry to the Board in his position as Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive director.
Ed Story Mr Story has also served on the Board for more than nine years and, accordingly, can only be considered as independent if the Board deems him to be so.
Mr Story was appointed an independent non-executive director of Cairn in 1997.
He is a highly respected individual in the international oil and gas industry, in which he has more than 40 years experience.
He has a particularly detailed knowledge of the Groups activities and he remains committed to the Company.
Mr Story is a member of the Companys nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
After rigorous review, and without Mr Story being present, the Board has concluded that Mr Story remains independent in character and judgement and that his performance continues to be effective as well as demonstrating a continued commitment to his role as a non-executive director.
There is no evidence that length of tenure is having any adverse impact on his independence.
The Board also noted that Mr Story does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long-term incentive plans or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
42 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Mr Story has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Story to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
The Board believes Mr Story continues to challenge rigorously the executive directors, the Board and the committees on which he sits in both a constructive and appropriate manner and that his considerable expertise and industry experience is of great benefit to the Board, the Company and shareholders.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors of the Company are independent.
Board Committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the remuneration and nomination committees and the Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the audit committee.
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Andrew Shilston chairman, Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
The Board is satisfied that two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Shilston was the Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002 and is currently the Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc.
Mr Grossart serves on audit committees of other listed companies and trained as an investment banker.
Andrew Shilston intends to retire as a director of the Company at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008.
The nomination committee is reviewing the future composition of the audit committee.
The audit committee met four times in 2007.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
The Chairman also attended two meetings as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
In addition, all four meetings were attended by the external auditors and by the internal auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The role of the committee includes: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The audit committee met on three occasions during the year end process.
Issues likely to impact the financial statements are raised at the initial meeting by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors also present their audit plan.
Audit committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee recommends the policies to be adopted or direct senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary.
At the final meeting, the external auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including a summary of the significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The audit committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
kPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also attends the Group Risk Management Committee meetings to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks.
The audit committee receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend audit committee meetings where internal audit updates are given.
The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance team.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Hamish Grossart chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The remuneration committee met seven times in 2007.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
The Chairman also attended three meetings of the committee during 2007 as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
Certain other of the executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The role of the committee includes: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB: within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 68.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee comprises Norman Murray chairman, two independent non-executive directors Hamish Grossart and Ed Story, and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive.
Certain other of the non-executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
No new appointments were made to the Board during 2007.
The nomination committee met three times in 2007.
44 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Organisational Planning The year 2007 represented a year of change for the Cairn organisation.
To help staff deal with the changing environment, a change management workshop was held at the outset of the IPO transition period.
This workshop gave staff at all levels practical strategies, tools and techniques to enable them to adapt to and deal positively with the changing organisation at Cairn.
In September 2007, a number of Oracle e-Business Suite modules were implemented to assist the organisation with more efficient data collection, monitoring and reporting.
Finance, Purchasing, Asset Management, Human Resources and Projects were all implemented within a six month period.
The project included requirements gathering workshops, module set-up, three conference room pilots and historical data migration.
A comprehensive Leadership Development Programme was also developed in conjunction with Henley Management College.
In December 2007, certain executive directors plus the Group Human Resources Manager attended a two-day workshop which focused on the areas of personal and people leadership.
The next phase of the Leadership Development Programme will be rolled out to additional senior managers in early 2008.
Plans are also under way for the development of a Management Skills Programme for all people managers within the Edinburgh organisation.
In April 2007, the Edinburgh office was successfully re-accredited under the Investors in People standard.
Directors Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2007: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Meetings held during 2007 7 4 7 3 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive Directors 1 Sir Bill Gammell 7 n a n a 3 Dr Mike Watts 7 n a n a n a 1 Malcolm Thoms 7 n a n a n a 1 Phil Tracy 7 n a n a n a 1 1 Jann Brown 7 n a n a n a Simon Thomson 7 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 1 1 Norman Murray 7 n a n a 3 3 2 Hamish Grossart 6 2 7 3 3 2 2 2 Ed Story 4 3 2 1 2 1 Todd Hunt 7 n a 4 n a 3 2 1 Mark Tyndall 5 n a 6 n a Andrew Shilston 7 4 n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 During 2007, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and interim report and accounts to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The Chairman attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and also has a website which contains a range of information, including a dedicated investor relations section.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Mr Grossart, the senior independent non-executive director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances this means that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 23 May 2008 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 131 to 133 and on the Companys website.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Uk company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under such law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have also elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group and the Company: the Companies Act provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Companies Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU : and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the standards summarised above, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Groups business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate vision and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2007 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2007 and will ensure that such reviews are performed in 2008.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within Cairn India and which derives from a parallel process followed within Cairn India.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective control is in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage these risks effectively.
Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that the Groups values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliancing with key partners are ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this approach and success.
2007 was another year of significant change for the Company, with the transfer of management control of Cairn India to its own board of directors following the listing on the BSE and NSE on 9 January 2007 and the building of an exploration portfolio and new organisation in Capricorn.
Particular attention has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during 2007 in relation to the significant risks in business activities.
Cairn India is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of SEBI and to its listing agreement with the BSE and NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO the Relationship Agreement, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their respective obligations to SEBI, the FSA, the BSE, the LSE and the NSE and under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and Uk regulation and legislation relating to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities or corporate governance.
This has included adopting and following the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which enable each company to comply with these obligations.
The following describes the key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board during 2007 to review the effectiveness of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2008.
Strategic Direction The Group business model is conventional in that strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board and its implementation is delegated to the GMB.
Following its listing on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, Cairn India is now an autonomous company and its directors decide the company strategy.
In accordance with the memorandum and articles of association of Cairn India, the Company has nominated three non-executive directors to the board of Cairn India including Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman and, therefore, has an input to this strategy.
Operating Management Outside of Cairn India, the Group, through its unlisted subsidiary Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at the asset level before being consolidated at both country and Group levels.
After an iterative process, the country budgets are presented as part of the Group budget to the GMB and the Board for approval.
Each country then prepares a detailed business plan to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and kPIs for each asset and supporting functional department, and is consolidated into the country business plan.
The country business plans are firstly approved by the in-country management teams and are then submitted to the GMB and the Board for approval.
The in-country management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegation of authorities, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The remit of the GMB is to oversee the delivery of the strategy through the annual work programmes, budgets and country business plans.
The directors have also appointed Group functional heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Risk Management The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The GRMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises executive directors and senior country and Group functional management.
Further changes to the GRMC membership, in order to maintain a robust and challenging approach to risk management, are planned in 2008.
The Group Business Risk Management Guidelines GBRMG, that define the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group, were issued in April 2005.
The GBRMG also identify the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset and country levels.
It is intended to update the GBRMG during 2008.
A country-level RMC has continued to operate in Bangladesh during 2007. Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, have been recorded in asset and country risk registers which, following endorsement by the in-country RMCs, are reported through to the Group risk register.
These country and Group risk registers are regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place.
At each GRMC meeting a specific risk item has also been reviewed in more detail, through presentations by and questioning of the responsible manager.
During 2007, these more detailed risk reviews have included the due diligence process applied to the evaluation of new business opportunities, Bangladesh exploration and drilling risk mitigation strategies and the new finance system implementation programme.
Subsequent to its listing, Cairn India operates its own RMC in line with its Business Risk Management System BRMS.
The Cairn India RMC has been established under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer and reports to the Cairn India Board.
The BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, a copy of the Cairn India risk register is routinely submitted for review at the GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is present to provide explanation and take questions.
The Cairn India risk register is integrated into the Group risk register.
Since kPMGs appointment to manage the Group internal audit process in August 2004, steps have been taken to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process, including attendance at GRMC meetings.
Cairn India follows a similar practice with kPMG India, who have also been retained as their internal auditors in line with the Relationship Agreement.
The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the Board.
Additionally, the Board receives internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2007 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are appropriate.
Assurance The integrated assurance framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: firstly at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional management and the GRMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
During 2007, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: the nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India board in a non-executive capacity and to certain of its committees.
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn India board of directors: 48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: a transition support agreement with Cairn India which was in force for six months subsequent to its listing on 9 January 2007, to help ensure a smooth process in respect of the relocation of certain managerial functions from the Companys headquarters in Edinburgh to Cairn India: an annual letters of assurance process, through which country managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: a letter of assurance from the Cairn India Chief Executive Officer confirming the adequacy of internal controls within Cairn India in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: Group internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and Board: reports from the Group audit committee and GRMC, including reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India audit committee : reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: and independent third party reviews commissioned.
Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout 2007 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company Position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding Throughout 2007 the Board comprised The Board believes that the composition the chairman, should comprise nonthe Chairman, the Chief Executive, of the Board was appropriate and executive directors determined by the five other executive directors and five effective for the challenges that it faced Board to be independent.
4.1 a majority of the members of Throughout 2007 the nomination The Board believes that the membership the nomination committee should be committee comprised two independent of the committee is appropriate and independent non-executive directors.
non-executive directors, the Chairman effective.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 49
