CORPORATE GOVERNANCE On 22 February 2008, the Companys shares were delisted member of the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
He is Chairman following their transfer to the Treasury Solicitor as nominee for of NATS, Telent plc previously Marconi Corporation Plc, Her Majestys Treasury.
As a result, the full requirements of the BizzEnergy Limited and Tersus Energy Plc.
UKLAs Listing Rules and the Combined Code on Corporate S A M Hester Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman Governance, no longer apply to the Company.
Stephen Hester aged 47 was appointed to the Board as a This corporate governance section summarises: Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman on 22 February the composition of the Board at the date of this report: 2008.
Mr Hester is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is Chief Executive of the governance regime in place at the date of this report.
The British Land Company plc BL.
He joined BL in November The Operating and Financial Review on pages 25 to 39 2004 from Abbey National plc which he joined in May 2002. also addresses certain governance matters in relation to For the previous 19 years he was at Credit Suisse First Boston.
S T Laffin Non-Executive Director COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Simon Laffin aged 48 was appointed to the Board as a The Directors in office at the date of this report are: Non-Executive Director on 26 November 2007.
He is Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Risk R A Sandler Executive Chairman Committee.
He is an Industrial adviser to CVC Capital Partners and Ron Sandler CBE aged 56 was appointed to the Board as also a Non-Executive Director of Quintain Estates and Development Executive Chairman on 22 February 2008.
He is also Chairman of PLC.
Previously he was CFO and Property Director of Safeway Plc.
the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He was Chief Executive of Lloyds of London from 1995 M J Queen Non-Executive Director to 1999, and subsequently was Chief Operating Officer of Michael Queen aged 46 was appointed to the Board as a NatWest Group.
He is Chairman of Pasternoster Ltd and Ironshore Non-Executive Director in January 2005.
Mr Queen was appointed Inc and a Non-Executive Director of Fortis Group.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committees in November 2007.
He is a Director of 3i Group plc where he is responsible for A F Godbehere Chief Financial Officer Infrastructure investment.
Mr Queen will retire from the Board at Ann Godbehere aged 52 was appointed to the Board as Chief the end of May 2008.
She moved to London as Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health Division in 1998 P J Remnant Non-Executive Director and joined the Property & Casualty Business Group, based in Philip Remnant aged 53 was appointed to the Board as a Zurich, as Chief Financial Officer on its establishment in 2001.
He is a member of In 2003 she was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of the Group.
Ms Godbehere is a Non-Executive Director of Prudential Shareholder Executive and is a Senior Adviser of Credit Suisses plc, Ariel Holdings Ltd and Atrium Underwriting plc.
investment banking division in Europe.
Previously, he was a Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston in Europe and was Director A M Kuipers Chief Executive Officer General of the Takeover Panel between 2001 and 2003.
Andy Kuipers aged 50 was appointed Chief Executive on He formerly held senior investment banking positions with BZW 19 December 2007, having first been appointed to the Board as an and Kleinwort Benson.
He was previously the Commercial Director responsible for the co-ordination and T W Scholar Non-Executive Director direction of the Companys sales, marketing, products, pricing and Tom Scholar aged 39 was appointed to the Board as a retention activities.
Mr Kuipers joined Northern Rock in 1987.
He is a member of the Audit and Risk Committees.
He was appointed Managing L P Adams Non-Executive Director Director International & Finance at HM Treasury in January 2008.
Laurie Adams aged 51 was appointed to the Board as a Prior to that, he was Chief of Staff and Principal Private Secretary Non-Executive Director on 29 November 2007.
He is Deputy to the Prime Minister.
From 2001 to 2007 he was an Executive Chairman of the Risk Committee and a member of the Director of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Remuneration Committee.
Mr Adams is a Director of Siblu Holdings and Minister Economic at the British Embassy in Washington, DC.
Limited formerly Haven Europe Ltd and was Managing Director From 1997 to 2001 he was Principal Private Secretary to the and Global Head of Legal and Compliance of the Investment Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Banking Wholesale Division at ABN Amro Bank.
J F Devaney Non-Executive Director John Devaney aged 61 was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 26 November 2007.
Mr Devaney is a 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE and succession in the light of reviews with the Board from time to performance and the requirements of time the Companys strategic options: OVERVIEW the Plan: Since the commencement of a period of requires that the Board is accountable temporary public ownership on two Non-Executive Directors nominated to it for delivering the agreed Plan: 22 February 2008, the governance of the by HMT as shareholder the gives the Board the freedom to take Company has been regulated principally by Shareholder Directors, will be the actions necessary to deliver a framework document the Framework appointed to the Board.
The Company the Plan: Document agreed between the Company acknowledges that the Shareholder and its shareholder, Her Majestys Treasury Directors intend to liaise with and monitors the Companys performance HMT.
This sets out the structure of report to representatives of HMT as to satisfy itself that the Plan is on how the day-to-day shareholder shareholder from time to time in track: and relationship between the Company and relation to the business of the must give its consent for certain HMT will work in practice, and may be Company and decisions made or to be significant actions.
revised from time to time where required by made by the Board in order to assist HMT as circumstances change.
As described with the exercise of their powers and IMPLEMENTATION OF BASIC below, the Board will implement a business duties as directors of the Company: PRINCIPLES plan which takes into account these the Chairman will discuss with the objectives and is consistent with the aim of BOARD STRUCTURE AND GOVERNANCE Nominated Official any impending temporary public ownership the Plan.
In accordance with the Framework changes to Board membership: Document, the Company will operate a The ongoing relationship between the the Nominated Official will meet with corporate governance structure which, so Company and HMT as shareholder, HMT the Chairman of the Nomination far as practicable and in light of the other and the Bank of England as debt provider Committee as necessary to discuss any provisions of the Framework Document, or as and the Financial Services Authority as proposed Board changes before they otherwise may be agreed with HM Treasury, regulator will be underpinned by the become subject to the formal as Shareholder, takes appropriate account of Tripartite Authorities stated objectives: appointment consent procedure best practice for a company listed on the to protect taxpayers, to promote financial outlined above: Official List, including the Combined Code on stability, and to protect consumers.
Corporate Governance the Combined the Board will ensure that suitably Code.
The Board will continue to operate BASIC PRINCIPLES rigorous appraisals are made of the the following committees: The basic relationship between the effectiveness of the Chairman and Company and HMT as shareholder Audit Committee: Board: and operates according to the following the Shareholder has certain monitoring Risk Committee: principles under which HMT as and information access rights, and its shareholder: Remuneration Committee: consent must be obtained for certain appoints the Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee.
and appoints two Non-Executive The work of these committees is described Directors in consultation with the THE BOARD below.
Chairman: The Board is responsible for: must give its consent for the developing and recommending a Plan BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND appointment of other members of the MONITORING to deliver the objectives of the Board proposed to be appointed by Tripartite Authorities, including a It is a key principle of the Framework the Nominations Committee and agrees Document that HMT as shareholder and proposed business strategy and the terms on which the Directors are funding plan consistent with the aims the Chairman should share a common view appointed and incentivised: about Board composition including size, of temporary public ownership.
The Plan will be updated as required and balance of experience and background and determines the high level objectives succession.
To achieve this: will be subject to review by and the that the Plan is designed to achieve approval of HMT as shareholder: and and agrees the Plan with the Board: the Chairman and either the Chancellor of the Exchequer or a senior official delivering the Plan.
Subject to the must agree any subsequent updates to nominated by the Chancellor of the Framework Document and the the Plan: Exchequer the Nominated Official Companys Memorandum and Articles will regularly review Board composition of Association, final decisions on 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued running the Company will rest with the statements of the Company and any formal This responsibility requires the Risk Board in accordance with the Directors announcements relating to the Companys Committee to keep under review the fiduciary responsibilities.
An important aspect effectiveness of the Groups system of shareholder is committed to giving the of its role is to ensure that an objective internal controls, which includes financial, Board the freedom to act to deliver the and professional relationship is maintained operational, compliance and risk agreed Plan.
Thus, save as provided in with the external auditors.
management controls and to foster a the Framework Document, HMT as culture that emphasises and demonstrates The Audit Committee has responsibility for shareholder will not interfere in day-tothe benefits of a risk-based approach to recommending the appointment, day operational and commercial internal control and management of the re-appointment and removal of the matters.
The Risk Committee fulfils this remit external auditors.
by reinforcing managements control The Management Board Asset and Liability The Audit Committee reviews the scope consciousness and making appropriate Committee remains responsible for and results of the annual external audit, recommendations to the Board on all overseeing the management and review of its cost effectiveness, and the significant matters relating to the Groups the Companys risk profile and processes, independence and objectivity of the risk strategy and policies.
including the composition of the balance external auditors.
It also reviews the nature Other responsibilities of the Risk sheet and the liquidity profile.
The minutes and extent of any non-audit services Committee include keeping under review of these meetings are reported to the Risk provided by the external auditors.
the effectiveness of the Groups risk Committee.
The external auditors may attend all management infrastructure.
This involves an meetings of the Audit Committee and they BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE AND assessment of risk management procedures have direct access to the Committee and its NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS for the identification, measurement and Chairman at all times.
More than half of the Board comprises control of key risk exposures in The Director Audit and Compliance Non-Executive Directors, all of whom have accordance with changes in the operating provides further assurance that the experience in a range of commercial or environment.
It is also primarily responsible significant risks identified by the business banking activities.
for considering any major findings of the are properly managed.
The Director Audit Financial Services Authority and and Compliance also has direct access to BOARD COMMITTEES managements response to any risk the Audit Committee and its Chairman.
In accordance with the requirements in management review undertaken by Internal The Committee regularly receives reports the Framework Document the Board has Audit or the external auditors.
of reviews conducted throughout the established a number of Committees.
The To assist the Board in discharging its Company by the Internal Audit and Chairman and membership of each responsibilities for the setting of risk policy, Compliance functions.
Committee are set out in each section the Risk Committee periodically reviews the below.
The Audit Committee met five times in Groups credit risk, interest rate risk, 2007.
In February 2007, the Audit Each Committee has detailed terms of liquidity risk and operational risk exposures Committee reviewed the effectiveness of reference clearly setting out its remit and in relation to the Boards risk appetite and the external auditors and made a authority.
recommendation that they be re-appointed The following paragraphs set out details of As part of the implementation of the for a further 12 months.
The Board the Committees and the particular work International Convergence of Capital accepted this recommendation and an that they undertake.
Measurement and Capital Standards: appropriate resolution was passed at the Revised Framework commonly known as 2007 Annual General Meeting.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Basle II, the Committee has responsibility The Audit Committee currently comprises for monitoring the performance of the RISK COMMITTEE Messrs Queen Chairman, Laffin Deputy Companys Basle credit rating systems and The Risk Committee currently comprises Chairman, Remnant and Scholar.
reviewing reports prepared by the Messrs Queen Chairman, Adams Deputy Companys Basle designated committees.
The Committee considers and, where Chairman, Devaney, Laffin and Scholar.
appropriate, advises the Board on all The Risk Committee also ensures that the The main role of the Risk Committee is to matters relating to regulatory, prudential public disclosure of information regarding review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks and accounting requirements that may the Groups risk management policies and inherent in the business, the system of affect the Group.
It reports to the Board key risk exposures is in accordance with control necessary to manage such risks, on both financial and non-financial controls statutory requirements and financial and to present its findings to the Board.
and monitors the integrity of the financial reporting standards.
5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Risk Committee met four times during INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK 2007.
MANAGEMENT A description of the Groups approach to NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE financial risk management and the related The Nominations Committee currently use of derivatives is set out in notes 19 and comprises Messrs Sandler Chairman, 41 to the Accounts.
Material risk exposures Hester and Remnant.
are subject to Board policy statements that set out the exposure limits of the risks and Subject to compliance with the hedges and control techniques to be requirements of the Framework Document utilised.
as set out above, the Committee will monitor and review the membership of, and As a consequence of the serious disruption succession to, the Board of Directors and in the global funding and liquidity markets the Committee makes recommendations to and the closure to the Company of the the Board in this regard.
One of its securitisation and medium term funding functions is to identify potential Executive markets, the Group obtained a loan facility and Non-Executive Directors taking into from the Bank of England in September account the requirement for the members 2007.
This loan facility has been used to of the Board to have an appropriate range meet the liquidity requirements of the of skills and experience.
The Committee met once during 2007.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board of Directors is not aware of any The Remuneration Committee currently significant failures in internal control that comprises Messrs Hester Chairman, arose in the business of the Group during Adams, Devaney and Sandler.
2007 that have not been identified and dealt with in accordance with the internal Subject to compliance with the control procedures of the Group.
requirements of the Framework Document as set out above, the Committee will be The Companys Internal Audit function responsible for considering and advising provides a degree of assurance as to the the Board on the remuneration policy for operation and validity of the system of Executive Directors and the Chairman, and internal control and planned corrective for determining their remuneration actions are independently monitored for packages.
In discharging its responsibilities, timely completion.
the Remuneration Committee takes As part of the implementation of the professional advice from within and outside strategic and funding plan, the Board of the Company.
Directors will initiate a complete review of It is the Boards responsibility to determine the systems of control to ensure they are the remuneration policy for Non-Executive appropriate for the reshaped business and Directors within the limits set out in the operations of the Group and applicable Articles of Association.
Committee also determines the level of remuneration for the Companys Management Board Directors comprising management at the level immediately below the Board.
The Committee met three times during 2007.
