Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 64 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters Index to this section of the Report Introduction and Combined Code compliance The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate Introduction and Combined Code compliance 64 governance.
The organisation is directed and controlled by its Board of Directors, and through systems of delegation and Board of Directors 64 escalation, so as to achieve its business objectives responsibly Membership and directors interests and in accordance with high standards of accountability Rotation and re-election of directors and integrity.
Skills, experience and review Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority The principal governance rules that apply to UK companies Executive and non-executive roles listed on the London Stock Exchange are set out in the Combined Independence of non-executive directors Code appended to the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and 2007 operations Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
As the Companys primary listing is on the Group Executive 68 London Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses the matters covered by the Combined Code, but the Company also has Board Committees 68 regard to governance expectations in the four other territories Group Audit and Risk Committee where its shares are listed South Africa, Malawi, Namibia Remuneration Committee and Zimbabwe.
Nomination Committee Executive Committee In the year ended 31 December 2007 and in the preparation Group Capital Management Committee of this Annual Report and these Accounts, the Company has Terms of reference complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code as described in the following Attendance record 71 sections of this Report.
The Companys compliance with Combined Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, and Auditors 71 the statement relating to the going concern basis adopted in preparing the financial statements, have been reviewed by General Meetings 72 the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance Results of the Annual General Meeting 2007 with guidance published by the Auditing Practices Board.
Internal control environment 73 Board of Directors Internal audit Membership and directors interests Categorisation as a Major Retail Group The Board currently has 12 members, consisting of three Risk governance executive and nine non-executive directors.
All of the current Approach to risk management directors except for Mr Nqwababa and Mr Pym who were Risk appetite appointed to the Board in April and September 2007 Group risk principles respectively served throughout the year ended 31 December Risk methodologies 2007.
Mr Michael Marks retired from the Board as a nonTreasury management executive director and as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees at the end of the Annual General Other Directors Report matters 75 Meeting on 24 May 2007.
Relations with shareholders and analysts Employment matters Details of the directors interests including interests of their Directors shareholdings and share dealings connected persons in the share capital of the Company and Directors indemnities quoted securities of its subsidiaries at the beginning and end Supplier payment policy of the year under review are set out in the following tables, Charitable contributions while their interests in share options and restricted share Environmental matters awards are described in the section of the Remuneration Political donations Report entitled Directors interests under employee share Dividend policy plans.
There have been no changes to any of these interests Share capital between 31 December 2007 and 27 February 2008.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Significant agreements Substantial interests in voting rights Going concern Disclosure of information to the auditors Governing law 81 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 65 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2007 N D T Andrews 7,000 R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 C D Collins 75,000 R P Edey 25,000 2,604 1 R J Khoza 2,062 2 J C Nicholls 106,764 B Nqwababa L H Otterbeck R A Pym 20,000 2 J V F Roberts 806,546 2 J H Sutcliffe 1,692,769 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2007 or date of appointment as a director, if later N D T Andrews 7,000 R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 C D Collins 50,000 R P Edey 25,000 2,550 1 R J Khoza 2,062 2 J C Nicholls B Nqwababa L H Otterbeck R A Pym 2 J V F Roberts 562,543 2 J H Sutcliffe 1,318,971 Former director at 1 January 2007 and date of resignation M J P Marks 1 This figure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
2 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group are reported, on an aggregated basis along with other transactions by senior managers of the Company, in note 47 to the Accounts.
Rotation and re-election of directors Skills, experience and review The Articles of Association of the Company require that any Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition newly appointed directors should be subject to election at the are managed proactively by the Nomination Committee so next following Annual General Meeting and also that at least as to ensure that changes take place without undue disruption one third of the directors excluding those appointed by the and that there is an appropriate balance of experience and Board during the year should retire by rotation each year.
That Committee also has regard, in making These provisions are applied in such a manner that each recommendations, to independence of candidates and their director submits himself for election or re-election at regular suitability and willingness to serve on other Committees intervals and at least once every three years.
All of these aspects are currently believed by that Committee to be satisfactory and appropriate for the The Nomination Committee considered the candidates who requirements of the Groups business.
While there are currently are standing for election or re-election at this years Annual only three executive directors, members of the Board have General Meeting as referred to in Ordinary Resolutions 3 i to regular contact with the other most senior executive management iv in the Notice of Annual General Meeting at its meeting in including the regional heads of the most significant business February 2008.
In accordance with its findings, it recommends units of the Group, through the periodic participation in Board to shareholders the election of Mr Pym, and the re-election meetings and other briefing sessions by those executives.
of Mr Andrews, Mr Edey and Mr Sutcliffe as directors based upon their respective professional qualifications, prior business experience and contribution to the Board.
Biographical details of each of the candidates are contained in the Board of Directors section of this document.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 66 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority The Chairman and Company Secretary are both involved in ensuring good information flows within the Board and its The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the committees and between senior management and the nonCompany within a framework of prudent and effective controls executive directors, as well as in facilitating induction and that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the encouraging non-executive directors to attend courses at the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial Companys expense to update their skills and knowledge.
and human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It regularly reviews strategic On appointment, new directors receive induction, including issues through the Chief Executives report and also holds one information about matters of immediate importance to the or more strategy sessions each year at which high-level strategic Group, such as the current budget and strategy documents, matters are debated.
The Board sets the Companys values and management accounts, the Scheme of Delegated Authority and standards, and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and details of the Companys directors and officers liability policy.
others are understood and met.
They also have a series of meetings with other directors, senior management and external advisers such as the auditors.
The Board receives a wide array of information on the Groups businesses on a regular basis.
Monthly management accounts Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest are circulated to each member of the Board within three to be disclosed and for directors to recuse themselves from weeks of the month end.
These contain detailed analysis of participation in any decisions where they may have any such the businesses financial performance, including comparisons conflict or potential conflict.
Any issues arising from these are addressed at Board meetings or can be raised directly with management.
The directors may take independent professional advice at the The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are dealt with Companys expense for the furtherance of their duties, whether on a scheduled basis over the course of the year, including as members of the Board or of any of its committees.
presentations on each of the Groups major businesses.
Board meetings are held regularly in the principal overseas territories The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance where the Group operates, at which local management makes in respect of legal action against its directors.
detailed presentations of business and strategic issues affecting those businesses.
Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are The Board has oversight of the Groups wholly-owned complied with.
There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the businesses, but also: i delegates specific responsibilities Boards decision.
These are set out in the Companys Scheme of for certain matters to its committees Executive, Nomination, Delegated Authority and currently include, among other things, Remuneration, and Group Audit and Risk, subject to their the following: respective terms of reference: and ii receives assurance from boards and their respective committees at the Groups principal payment or recommendation of dividends: subsidiaries.
The governance relationships with the Groups approval of results announcements, annual reports and majority-owned subsidiaries, Nedbank Group Limited and any other public statements relating to the Groups financial Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, are somewhat position likely to have a material impact on the Groups different, in recognition of their own governance expectations as reputation: separately-listed entities on the JSE and the fact that they each approval of the Groups budgets and the formulation of have minority shareholders.
mediumand long-term direction and strategy for the Group: establishment of committees of the Board, their constitution With respect to Nedbank Group, the Company entered into and terms of reference: a relationship agreement in February 2004 setting out the monitoring of compliance with the Groups environmental Companys requirements and expectations as its majority policies: shareholder.
The full text of that relationship agreement is approval of the acquisition or disposal of any business or available on the Companys website.
Among the matters investment for a consideration of 25 million or more: covered are: i transactions involving members of the Nedbank approval of capital expenditure by a principal subsidiary in Group that require prior consultation with or agreement by the excess of its delegated expenditure authority: Company: ii provision of information, including that required approval of significant changes to the accounting policies for assuring the Company about various aspects of corporate or practices of the Group: governance: iii consultation over senior appointments: and approval of any proposal as a result of which either Nedbank iv business co-operation.
Group Limited or Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited would cease to be a majority-owned subsidiary of The policyholders funds of the Groups African life assurance the Company: operations have holdings representing in aggregate in excess approval of appointments to the Board and renewal of of 20% of the issued share capital of companies listed on the non-executive directors appointments, following prior stock exchanges of the countries in which those businesses review by the Nomination Committee: operate.
These are held purely as investments, and the companies concerned are not subject to the governance or control structures of the Group.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 67 approval of any major decision relating to the conduct or Where directors have concerns that cannot be resolved about settlement of any material litigation involving the Company the running of the Company or a proposed action, they are or its subsidiaries: encouraged to make their views known and these are recorded appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: in the minutes of the Board meeting.
No written statements on appointment or termination of appointment of key professional resignation containing matters of concern, such as are referred advisers to the Group: and to in paragraph A.
1.4 of the Combined Code, were received any other matters that are likely to have a material effect on by the Chairman during 2007. the Groups financial position, future strategy or reputation.
The assignment of responsibilities between the Chairman, Executive and non-executive roles Mr Collins, and the Chief Executive, Mr Sutcliffe, is documented so as to ensure that there is a clear division between the running The executive element of the Board is balanced by a strong of the Board and executive responsibility for running the independent group of non-executive directors so that no Companys business.
This, together with the Scheme of individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Delegated Authority and the matters reserved for decision Boards decision-making.
by the Board, ensures that no single individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and Responsibilities of Mr Collins as Chairman include those monitor the reporting of performance.
Procedures are in place contained in the Supporting Principle to paragraph A.
2 of the to enable them to satisfy themselves on the integrity of the Combined Code, namely leadership of the Board, ensuring its Groups financial information and that financial controls and effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: systems of risk management are robust and sustainable.
Those ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear non-executive directors who are members of the Remuneration information: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels facilitating the effective contribution to the Board of non-executive of remuneration for the executive directors.
Members of the directors in particular: and ensuring constructive relationships Nomination Committee have a primary role in recommending between the executive and non-executive directors.
the appointment and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
The Board as a whole receives and considers regular The Board has determined that, in the absence of exceptional reports on talent management and succession planning.
circumstances, no non-executive directors three-year cycle of appointment which is itself subject to re-election and to Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive directors, should be renewed more than twice, i. e. that non-executive without any executives being present, in order to provide a directors should serve a maximum of nine years in that role.
forum for any issues to be raised.
He also conducts an annual The renewal of non-executive directors terms for successive performance evaluation of each of the other non-executive three-year cycles is not automatic and the continued suitability directors, with any resulting action points being reported to the of each non-executive director is assessed by the Nomination Nomination Committee.
These are designed to ensure that each Committee before renewal of his appointment takes place.
director is continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate A particularly searching review is carried out at the end of commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board six years.
The section of the Remuneration Report entitled and Committee meetings and any other duties.
The outputs Non-Executive Directors Terms of Engagement describes from these performance evaluations are taken into account by the current position of each of the non-executive directors with the Nomination Committee in deciding whether to recommend to respect to their maximum three terms of three years and how the the Board the extension of engagement of non-executive directors extension process has been applied to the directors concerned.
and also whether to recommend to shareholders the re-election of any non-executive directors who are due to retire by rotation The Board conducts an annual self-assessment exercise to at the Annual General Meeting.
They would also form the evaluate the effectiveness of its procedures.
In 2007, this process basis, if the need arose, for the Chairman to act to address any was carried out through a detailed questionnaire, with returns weaknesses identified in the Board by seeking the resignation of being submitted to the Company Secretary, who collated a report underperforming directors or proposing, through the Nomination on the outputs for the Chairman and the Board.
The Chairman Committee, that additional directors should be appointed.
took these into account in one-to-one meetings between himself and the other directors, so as to ensure that any concerns Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, about Board processes or capabilities were identified and without the Chairman or any executive being present, are also aired.
Various action points were identified as a consequence facilitated by the Company.
Among the activities carried out at of the 2007 survey.
such meetings is the annual review of the Chairmans own performance, under the aegis of the senior independent director, who also obtains such input as he considers appropriate for such purpose from the executive directors.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 68 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Independence of non-executive directors The scheduled Board meetings in 2007 included visits to the Groups businesses in South Africa and to Skandia UK in Seven of the eight current non-executive directors other than Southampton.
These visits included presentations to the Board the Chairman Messrs. Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Edey, by the senior management teams of the local businesses.
Nqwababa, Otterbeck and Pym are considered by the Board to be independent within the meaning of, and having regard to Group Executive the criteria set out in, paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code i. e. independent in character and judgement and there being The Group Executive formerly known as the Old Mutual no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or Executive is the executive management committee through could appear to affect, their judgement.
Mr Marks, who retired which the Company exercises its co-ordination and stewardship during the year, was also considered to be independent.
Board decided in February 2006, following a review by the Nomination Committee, that it was not appropriate to classify In addition to the executive directors of the Company Mr Khoza as independent in view of the business interests Mr Sutcliffe, Mr Nicholls and Mr Roberts, the other members between his company, Aka Capital, and the Companys of the Old Mutual Executive at 31 December 2007 were banking subsidiary, Nedbank.
Mr Head and Mr Powers as the regional heads of South Africa and the USA respectively, and Mrs Harris, the Group Risk Mr Broadhurst has been the senior independent director since Director.
The Company Secretary also serves as Secretary May 2005 and will be succeeded in that role, following his to the Group Executive.
retirement from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008, by Mr Bogni.
The senior independent director Board Committees is available to shareholders if they have concerns that are The Board has a number of standing committees or subunresolved after contact through the normal channels of the committees, to which various matters are delegated in Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where accordance with their respective terms of reference.
The Board such contact would be inappropriate.
The senior independent also establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal with directors contact details can be obtained from the Company particular matters as and when thought fit.
In doing so, it Secretary martin.
specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Further information on the The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the nonmain standing committees and sub-committees of the Board executive directors are available in the Corporate Governance is set out below.
section of the Companys website.
These include details of the expected time commitment involved which each of the nonGroup Audit and Risk Committee executive directors has accepted.
Other significant commitments Members and years of appointment: N N Broadhurst of potential appointees are considered by the Nomination Chairman 1999, N D T Andrews 2003, R Bogni 2002, Committee as part of the selection process and are disclosed R P Edey 2004, B Nqwababa 2007, R A Pym 2007. to the Board when recommendation of an appointment is Secretary and year of appointment: M C Murray 1999 submitted.
Non-executive directors are also required to inform All of the members of the Group Audit and Risk Committee the Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments, are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman, which must be pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
Mr Broadhurst, is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and relevant financial experience as a former finance director and The executive directors are permitted to hold one external i. e. as Chairman or non-executive director of a number of other non-Group non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship major UK companies.
Upon his retirement from the Board at the of another listed company, subject to prior clearance by the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008 he will be succeeded Board and the directorship concerned not being in conflict or as Chairman of the Committee by Mr Pym subject to Mr Pym potential conflict with any of the Groups businesses.
Mr Sutcliffe himself being duly elected at that meeting.
Mr Pym is also a was appointed as a non-executive director of Lonmin plc from Chartered Accountant with a wide range of recent and relevant 10 August 2007.
Neither Mr Nicholls nor Mr Roberts currently financial experience, having been Chief Executive of the major holds any external non-executive directorships of another publicly UK banking group, Alliance & Leicester plc, until July 2007. quoted company.
All members of the Committee are expected to be financially literate and to have relevant corporate finance experience.
2007 operations The Board meets regularly during the year and met nine times The Committee: on a scheduled basis during 2007.
Meetings are co-ordinated with the Companys reporting calendar to allow for detailed monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the consideration of interim and preliminary results and quarterly Company and any formal announcements relating to the business updates.
Scheduled sessions are also devoted Companys financial performance, including reviewing specifically to strategy and business planning.
In addition, significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: the Board meets ad hoc, as and when required, to deal with reviews the Companys internal financial controls: specific matters requiring its consideration.
It met ad hoc monitors and reviews the independence and effectiveness twice during 2007. of the Companys internal audit function and its activities.
An internal audit charter, reviewed and approved by the Committee, governs internal audit activity within the Group and such activities are conducted in accordance with an annual audit plan.
Progress against that plan is reported regularly to the Committee: Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 69 receives and reviews reports on risk matters: The Committee is responsible for the development, makes recommendations to the Board, for it to put to implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in audit.
The policy assigns overall responsibility for monitoring relation to appointment, reappointment and removal of the independence and objectivity of, and compliance with the external auditors and approving their remuneration ethical and regulatory requirements by, the external auditors and terms of engagement: to the Committee and day-to-day responsibility to the Group reviews and monitors the external auditors independence Finance Director.
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of regulatory requirements: non-audit services that the external auditors are and are not develops and implements policy on the engagement of the allowed to provide to the Group.
Further details of this policy external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into are set out under the heading Auditors later in this report.
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm, reporting to the To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the Board any matters in respect of which it considers that action external auditors, the Committee reviewed: or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors reviews the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
plan for the year: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit At its meetings during 2007, the Committee received reports relationship: covering, among other things: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in of interest: and the Groups accounts: the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the significant accounting and actuarial issues: external auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval Economic Capital principles that are being adopted by of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
the Group: tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the any significant findings or control issues arising from internal Committees reviewed: audits carried out around the Group: environmental and corporate responsibility matters: and the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan significant risks and related risk management practices across and variations from the plan: and the Group.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
A number of audit or audit and risk committees operated at subsidiary level during 2007, including at Old Mutual Life To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit Assurance Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US process, the Committee reviewed: Holdings, Inc. Skandia AB, Skandia UK, Skandia Nordic, Skandia Europe & Latin America the latter two from the fourth the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope quarter of the year, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement Federal Insurance Company Limited, with terms of reference letter for the year: in relation to the businesses under their respective remit broadly the external auditors overall work plan for the year: equivalent to those of the Committee.
The Committee received the external auditors fee proposal: minutes of the proceedings and reports from subsidiary audit any major issues that arose during the course of the audit committees on a regular basis and the Chairmen of various of and their resolution: these subsidiary audit committees were invited to attend the key accounting and audit judgements: meetings of and report to the Committee periodically.
A planning the levels of errors identified during audit: and meeting was held between the Chairman of the Committee any recommendations made by the external auditors and the Chairmen of the main subsidiary audit committees, in their management letter and the adequacy of the regional heads of internal audit and representatives of the managements response.
Groups auditors during November 2007, to co-ordinate the audit committees activities and to review and approve the scope of Based on its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined internal audit plans for 2008.
Such planning meetings take above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that the place annually.
external auditors should be reappointed for 2008.
During 2007, the Group established Internal Review Committees The Committees role in relation to monitoring of risk is explained through which Group Finance reviews in detail the results of in more detail in the Risk governance section of this report.
the major businesses on a half-yearly basis in conjunction with the Chief Executives and Finance Directors of the businesses covered.
Alongside these meetings, an Internal Actuarial Review Committee meets to review the actuarial aspects of the results of the life businesses around the Group.
Findings from these meetings are incorporated into reports to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 70 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued In relation to internal audit, the Committee reviewed: The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its process for identifying candidates for recommendation to the Board as internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access new directors is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies to the Committee and members of the Board: generally arise in the context of either planned refreshing and internal audits plans and resources and its achievement renewal of the Board, replacing directors who are due to retire, of the activities planned as part of its agreed programme or adjusting the balance of knowledge, skills or independence for the year: of the Board.
the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness Mr Nqwababas appointment which took effect from 1 April of resolution: and 2007 was recommended by the Committee to replenish South statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience African representation on the Board following the resignation and timeliness of reporting.
of Professor Nkuhlu in October 2006, and his candidature was established through a shortlisting of potential suitable appointees The Groups whistleblowing arrangements enable employees against a job specification, with assistance from external of the Group and others to report, in confidence, via a dedicated advisers.
Mr Pym was appointed as a non-executive director hotline operated by an independent firm of accountants, from 1 September 2007 following a search conducted through complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, independent headhunters for a candidate with appropriate auditing issues and related matters.
Any matters so reported financial services and accounting experience to be a potential are investigated and escalated to the Committee as appropriate.
successor to Mr Broadhurst who is retiring at the Annual Efforts are also made to educate staff around the Group about General Meeting in May 2008 as Chairman of the Group the existence of the whistleblowing facility and to help them Audit and Risk Committee.
detect the signs of possible fraudulent or improper activity.
In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors that they will have sufficient time available in the light of their twice yearly or more often, if requested by the auditors to other commitments to discharge their duties as directors of review key issues.
The Chairman of the Committee also has the Company.
regular interaction with the external auditors, the Group Internal Audit Director and the Group Risk Director, as well as with the Executive Committee Chairmen of subsidiary audit committees and the Group Finance Members: J C Nicholls, J V F Roberts, J H Sutcliffe Director, so as to remain abreast of issues as they arise during The Executive Committee is a committee comprising the the year.
executive directors of the Company, to which executive control and decision-making are delegated, subject to reservation of Remuneration Committee matters that require approval by the Board itself.
A quorum Members and years of appointment: R Bogni Chairman comprises two of the executive directors.
The Committee met 2005, N D T Andrews 2002, N N Broadhurst 1999, ten times during 2007.
Other member during part of the year: M J P Marks appointed 2004, ceased on 24 May 2007.
Group Capital Management Committee Secretary and year of appointment: M C Murray 1999 Members and years of appointment: J C Nicholls Chairman Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee 2006, A Duncan 2006, R Harris 2007, D I Hope 2002, and how the Remuneration Committee and the Board have M Mittal 2006, J H Sutcliffe 2002.
Secretary and year of applied the main and supporting principles and the Code appointment: J Simpson 2007 Provisions in Section B of the Combined Code relating to The Group Capital Management Committee is a sub-committee remuneration matters are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Its role is: i to agree capital allocation up to the delegated authority of the Executive Nomination Committee Committee, or make recommendations to the Board for Members and years of appointment: C D Collins 1999, became allocations in excess of the Executive Committees authority: Chairman in May 2005, N D T Andrews 2005, R Bogni ii to recommend to the Board the most appropriate capital 2003, N N Broadhurst 1999, R P Edey 2005, J H Sutcliffe structure for the Group having regard to long-term strategic 2003.
Other member during part of the year: M J P Marks objectives, the current business plan, risk appetite parameters appointed 2005, ceased on 24 May 2007.
Secretary and and target credit ratings: iii to sign off a capital plan for year of appointment: M C Murray 1999 the Group as part of the annual business planning process: The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the iv to allocate capital in accordance with the business plan: Board in relation to the appointment of directors, the structure v to approve the overall investment strategy of the Groups of the Board and membership of the Boards main standing shareholders funds: vi to set an appropriate framework for committees.
It also reviews development and succession plans managing capital and to issue guidelines and or recommend for the most senior executive management of the Group and targets in order to ensure the appropriate management of capital: proposed appointments to the boards and standing committees vii to receive reports from Group Finance, Group Risk and of principal subsidiaries where these are material in the context business units so that it can monitor performance against of the Group as a whole.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the agreed criteria: and viii to consider and approve any changes Board, Mr Collins, and a majority of its members four out of six in required capital outside that agreed in the business plan, are independent non-executive directors.
including the remittance or withdrawal of capital from business units.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 71 Terms of reference were collated by the Company Secretary and reported to the Committees for consideration.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees of the Board are available in the Corporate Governance section Attendance record of the Companys website.
The table below sets out the number of meetings held and The membership and chairmanship of the Boards standing individual directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee principal standing committees based on membership of those so as to ensure that they are refreshed and that undue reliance committees, rather than attendance as an invitee during 2007. is not placed on particular individuals.
Messrs Collins, Nicholls and Sutcliffe attended all of the Each of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Group Audit and Risk Committee meetings held during the Nomination Committees conducted a self-assessment exercise year, at the invitation of the Chairman of that Committee during 2007 to address, among other things, whether their but members of management were absent for the private respective terms of reference had been fulfilled satisfactorily sessions between members of that Committee and the auditors.
during the year, whether the Committees had the necessary Mr Collins and Mr Sutcliffe also attended all of the Remuneration skills and resources and were receiving a satisfactory level Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of of information in order to discharge their responsibilities, and that Committee, but absented themselves for any matters whether their processes and methods could be improved.
relating to their own respective remuneration arrangements.
These were each conducted via questionnaires to members Attendance at Committee meetings by persons other than of the Committee concerned and other key participants in the the members is always at the invitation of the Chairman of Committees activities including the external auditors, in the the Committee concerned.
case of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
The results Board Group scheduled Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 5 5 5 N D T Andrews 11 11 5 5 4 5 4 5 R Bogni 11 11 5 5 5 5 4 5 N N Broadhurst 11 11 5 5 5 5 5 5 C D Collins 11 11 5 5 R P Edey 11 11 5 5 3 3 5 5 R J Khoza 11 11 J C Nicholls 10 11 B Nqwababa 8 9 1 2 L H Otterbeck 11 11 R A Pym 5 5 1 1 J V F Roberts 11 11 J H Sutcliffe 11 11 5 5 Former director M J P Marks 4 4 2 2 2 2 Auditors prior to accepting a proposed non-audit engagement, the lead audit engagement partner and management will During the year ended 31 December 2007, fees paid by assess the threats to objectivity and independence and the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its consider safeguards to be applied.
Such assessment will associates KPMG totalled 9.6 million for statutory audit be repeated whenever the scope and objectives of the services 2006: 9.9m, 0.4 million for other audit and non-audit service change significantly.
Before accepting assurance services relating to European Embedded Value a proposed engagement to provide a non-audit service to reporting 2006: 0.3 million, and 3.9 million for tax and the Group and its subsidiaries, the audit engagement other services 2006: 3.4 million.
In addition to the above, partner and management will: Nedbank Group paid a further 2.5 million 2006: 2.9 million consider whether it is probable that a reasonable and to Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
informed third party would regard the proposed engagement as being inconsistent with the objectives of the audit of the The following guidelines have been approved by the Group financial statements: Audit and Risk Committee as part of the Groups policy on non-audit services: Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 72 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued identify and assess the significance of any related threats Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with KPMG to the firms objectivity including any perceived loss of Audit Plc, for appropriate audit partner rotation in accordance independence: and with recommendations of the Institute of Chartered Accountants identify and assess the effectiveness of the available in England and Wales.
The current lead audit partner in the UK, safeguards to eliminate or reduce threats to an Mr Alastair Barbour, has been in place since 2005. acceptable level: where it is assessed that it is probable that an informed General Meetings party would regard the proposed service as being inconsistent The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to comment with the objectives of the firm as auditors, the firm will not on the Groups trading performance during the first quarter of the be permitted to undertake the non-audit service: year.
A record of the AGM proceedings is made available on the reports are tabled quarterly at Group Audit and Risk Companys website shortly after the end of the Meeting.
All items Committee meetings setting out the details of the non-audit of formal business at the AGM are conducted on a poll, rather services being provided by the Groups auditors.
These than by a show of hands.
The Company has arrangements in include a comparison of fees paid for audit services and fees place through its registrars, Computershare Investor Services, to paid to other accounting firms engaged for similar services: ensure that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and the Company and its auditors have agreed that they will not, a senior member of Computershares staff acts as scrutineer directly or indirectly, solicit the employment of key senior staff to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
and management of the respective organisations without prior written mutual consent.
Partners and directors of the audit Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a firm who have acted as lead partner or as a key audit partner separate resolution and the business of the AGM always includes for the Group will not be permitted to join Old Mutual Group a resolution relating to the approval of the Report and Accounts.
as a director or in a senior management position until at least The Chairmen of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and two years have passed since the partner director ceased to be Nomination Committees are available to answer any questions associated with the audit.
on the matters covered by these Committees at AGMs.
All of the directors who were in office at the date of the meeting The following process governs the provision of non-audit services attended the AGM in 2007, except Mr Edey, who was prevented provided by the auditors: from doing so by an injury.
there is a schedule of non-audit services that need to be The notice of AGM and related materials contained in the Report approved in principle on an annual basis and are reported, and Accounts or Summary Financial Statements are sent out to as and when provided, on a regular basis.
This is in line with shareholders in time to arrive in the ordinary course of the post the SECs guidelines on auditor independence: at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
all non-audit work costing less than 50,000 placed with the external auditors is to be approved by the Head of Group Results of the Annual General Meeting 2007 Finance or Business Unit Chief Financial Officer: The results of the polls on the resolutions at the Annual General all non-audit work in excess of 50,000 placed with Meeting held on 24 May 2007 were as follows: the external auditors is to be agreed by the Group Finance Director or his designate: Ordinary resolutions all non-audit work in excess of 300,000 placed with Resolution 1 the external auditors is to be subject to competitive tender To receive and adopt the directors report and accounts for the and agreed by the Group Finance Director and Group year ended 31 December 2006 Chief Executive: all non-audit work in excess of 1 million placed with In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld external auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit and 2,810,830,189 1,967,510 99.93 6,413,431 Risk Committee: cumulative fees in respect of non-audit services for any Resolution 2 financial quarter should not exceed 250,000 without approval of the Group Audit and Risk Committee or To declare a final dividend of 4.15 pence per ordinary share its Chairman: and In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld cumulative fees in respect of non-audit work for the Group 2,815,469,616 168,829 99.99 3,592,776 should not exceed total statutory audit and audit-related fees in any one year without the approval of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
Resolution 3 i Election of Mr J C Nicholls as a director of the Company KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and, following a In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld recommendation by the Group Audit and Risk Committee  99.967,397,855 to the Board, a resolution proposing its reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting Resolution 4 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 73 Resolution 3 ii Special resolutions Resolution 9 Election of Mr B Nqwababa as a director of the Company Authority to allot equity securities up to a maximum nominal In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld aggregate amount of 27,504,000 2,809,858,333 1,303,057 99.95 8,048,141 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,459,018,515 353,633,160 87.43 6,158,842 Resolution 3 iii Re-election of Mr L H Otterbeck as a director of the Company Resolution 10 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Authority in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 2,811,788,762 1,114,560 99.96 6,305,399 1985 to purchase up to 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company by way of market purchase Resolution 3 iv In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Re-election of Mr C D Collins as a director of the Company 2,810,630,662 3,563,066 99.87 4,614,579 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,812,692,028 958,766 99.97 5,580,427 Resolution 11 Approval of contingent purchase contracts to enable shares to be bought back on the overseas stock exchanges where the Resolution 3 v Companys shares then had secondary listings Re-election of Mr J V F Roberts as a director of the Company In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,807,228,994 4,278,373 99.85 7,222,098 2,786,118,762 9,971,030 99.64 23,123,449 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is therefore not counted in the calculation Resolution 4 of votes.
Reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company Each of the resolutions at the 2007 AGM was accordingly In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld duly passed.
2,783,940,615 10,549,301 99.62 24,711,305 Internal control environment Resolution 5 The Board retains its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the Authority to the Group Audit and Risk Committee of the Company role of executive management is to implement Board policies on to settle the remuneration of the auditors risk and control.
In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,810,056,611 3,168,099 99.89 5,975,899 Executive management has implemented an internal control system designed to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Group and its business units, enabling management Resolution 6 to respond appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Approval of the Remuneration Report in the Companys report Groups business objectives.
It should be noted that the system and accounts is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives, and can only In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against 2,453,741,960 334,922,846 87.68 20,545,643 material misstatement or loss.
Resolution 7 This system of internal control helps to ensure the quality of Approval of proposals arising from the closure of the Companys internal and external reporting, compliance with applicable laws Unclaimed Shares Trusts and regulations, and internal policies with respect to the conduct of business.
In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,800,708,336 4,574,525 99.84 13,926,854 The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during and at the end of the year.
This review covered all material controls, including financial, operational Resolution 8 and compliance controls and the risk management framework.
Authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 55,009,000 The Board is of the view that there is a sufficient ongoing process In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, and that this process has been in place 2,438,807,540 374,173,883 86.70 5,826,885 for the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
The process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 74 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Internal audit Independent assurance The third line of defence is designed to provide independent The Group Internal Audit GIA function operates on objective assurance on the effectiveness of the management of a decentralised basis, with teams established at all major enterprise risks across the Group.
This is provided to the Board businesses.
Internal audit carries out regular risk-focused reviews through GIA, the external auditors and the Group Audit and of the control environment and reports on these to local executive Risk Committee, supported by Audit and Risk Committees management.
The Director, Group Internal Audit has access at subsidiaries.
to all reports issued by each audit team, and prepares a report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
He reports functionally Approach to risk management to the Chairman of the Group Audit and Risk Committee and administratively to the Group Risk Director and also enjoys The Group derives its approach to risk management and control unrestricted access to the Chief Executive and the audit from a shareholder value perspective.
As a result, the risk process committees of the Groups principal subsidiaries.
is based on an ERM concept, which takes a holistic approach to the managed acceptance of risks on an enterprise-wide basis.
The internal audit function has adopted a single audit This involves identifying the key risks that affect the achievement methodology, aligned to current international standards by Group of the Groups objectives.
Risks are assessed on an inherent Risk Services, which is a centralised function responsible for basis, by establishing the main influences on the risks in the ensuring quality and consistency of risk management practices absence of any controls.
The residual risk is assessed after and internal audit working practices around the Group.
identifying the controls in operation.
Where the residual level is outside the risk appetite, further controls and action are identified An extensive independent review of internal audit by external to bring the risks within the risk appetite.
Risk management is experts was carried out in 2007, in keeping with the IIAs not limited solely to the downside or risk avoidance, but is about Standards of Professional Practice and GIA was found to taking risk knowingly and using this for competitive advantage.
be in compliance with the requirements of the IIA.
In order to meet its ERM objectives, the Group follows a Categorisation as a Major Retail Group framework which contains the following components: i a robust risk governance structure: ii risk appetites established Old Mutual plc was recategorised as a Major Retail Group at Group and subsidiary level: iii Group-wide risk policies by the UK Financial Services Authority for the purposes of and risk language: and iv methodologies that focus on risk regulatory supervision following the Groups acquisition identification, risk measurement, risk assessment, action plans, of Skandia during 2006. monitoring and reporting.
Each component is explained in more detail in the sections below.
Risk governance The Groups risk governance model is based on three lines of A review of the Groups ERM practices and framework was defence.
This model distinguishes between functions owning initiated in late 2007.
The results will be used to enhance and managing risks, functions overseeing the management of existing practices and to ensure that the Group continues to risks, and functions providing independent assurance.
employ world-class risk management practices.
Risk management Risk appetite under the first line of defence, the Board sets the Groups The Groups risk appetite defines the Groups willingness risk appetite, approves the strategy for managing risk and to balance risk exposures with reward, and the management is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
and monitoring of those exposures.
Risks or events outside Management and staff within each business have the primary the agreed risk appetite are identified and reviewed with responsibility for managing risk, while the Chief Executive, remedial action agreed and then are subject to oversight supported by the Group Executive, has overall responsibility for by executive management and agreed by the Group Audit the management of risks facing the Group.
Management and and Risk Committee.
The Groups risk appetite encompasses: staff within the businesses are responsible for the identification, i volatility and quantum of returns to shareholders: ii value assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of enterprise for money for customers: iii financial strength ratings: risks arising within their respective areas.
iv regulatory solvency: and v how risks are monitored and controlled.
Compliance with the risk appetite is Risk oversight monitored through the quarterly business review process.
The second line of defence is provided by the Group Risk Director supported by subsidiary Chief Risk Officers and their respective Group risk principles Risk functions.
In addition, other specialist in-house functions at Company and subsidiary levels, such as Treasury, Actuarial Group risk principles have been established for each major and Legal, provide technical support and advice to operating risk category to which the Group is exposed.
These are management to assist them with the identification, assessment, designed to provide management teams across the Group management, monitoring and reporting of financial and nonwith guiding principles and requirements within which to financial risks.
The Group risk function recommends Group Risk manage risks.
Business unit risk policies expand on these Principles to the Board for approval, provides objective oversight principles and contain detailed requirements for the specific and co-ordinates enterprise risk management ERM activities business concerned.
in conjunction with other specialist risk-related functions.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 75 Adherence to these principles provides the Board and the Reporting Companys stakeholders with assurance that high-level common As part of the Boards review process, the Chief Executive standards are consistently applied throughout the Group and also of each of the Groups major businesses completes a Letter contributes to strong governance within the Group.
of Representation at half year and for the full year.
This Letter confirms that there has been no indication of any significant Risk methodologies business risk occurring, nor any material malfunction in controls, Risk identification procedures or systems during the reporting period, resulting in Strategic objectives, reflecting managements choice as to how loss or reputational damage, which impacts negatively on the the Group will seek to create value for its stakeholders, are attainment of the businesss objectives during the year and up translated into business unit objectives.
Risks and risk events to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Exceptions are that would prevent the achievement of both the strategic and noted and reported.
In addition the Letter confirms that the business objectives are then identified.
Risk identification is thus business unit will continue as a going concern for the year part of the annual business planning process as well as an ahead.
The collated results of these Letters are reported to the ongoing process.
Group Audit and Risk Committee via a Letter of Representation from the Group Chief Executive.
Risk assessment and measurement Monthly management reports, reports by the Group Finance Various means of assessing, categorising and measuring Director, risk logs, control logs and exposure reports described enterprise risks and risk events are used throughout the Group.
under Monitoring and control above also form part of the These include estimating the financial impact and the likelihood reporting process.
of risk occurrence, trend and traffic light assessments and high medium low assessments.
Management of specific risks Action plans Details of some of the principal risks arising at Group level and in each key subsidiary are contained in the Business Review Action plans to implement the risk management strategy Group Finance Directors Report earlier in this Annual Report.
in respect of key risks or to remedy a material breakdown in control are recorded on risk and control logs maintained Treasury management by each business unit.
The expected date of mitigation of the risk is recorded, along with the person responsible for The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which is the mitigating action.
responsible for recommending and implementing the funding strategy for the Group, including the ongoing management of Monitoring and control debt facilities, managing relationships with banks and ratings agencies and managing Old Mutual plcs operational cash The Board regularly receives and reviews reports on risks and flow requirements.
These reviews cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls It is also responsible for the provision of capital to the Groups and risk management systems.
subsidiaries, as approved by the Old Mutual plc Board and the Group Capital Management Committee.
Management teams in each subsidiary and business unit perform annual reviews of the control environment in their business.
Other Directors Report matters Relations with shareholders and analysts Risk monitoring is undertaken at Group, principal subsidiary and business unit level by management, specialised risk The Company regards clear and direct dialogue with its management functions, internal audit and subsidiary audit shareholders and analysts as important in raising their committees.
The following are some of the other key processes understanding of the Groups strategy, operational and financial for risk monitoring used around the Group: performance, management and prospects.
Its Investor Relations department has a dedicated programme for facilitating regular the Group Finance Director provides the Board with monthly communication between the executive management team and performance information, which includes key performance a wide range of institutions and investors worldwide within indicators: the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and items on risk logs and control logs which contain details of Transparency Rules.
any control failures are reported pursuant to an escalation protocol to the appropriate level of management board or During 2007, around 100 meetings were held with institutional committee, where rectification procedures and progress are investors in the UK, South Africa, North America and Europe.
closely monitored: In most cases the meetings involved the Chief Executive, Group significant corrective actions are independently monitored Finance Director or another member of the senior management for timely completion by internal audit and, as appropriate, team.
In addition, institutional investors and analysts were by the relevant Audit and Risk Committee: given the opportunity to attend presentations on the Skandia exposure reporting, risk concentrations and solvency and and OMSA businesses given by members of the local capital adequacy reports are submitted to the relevant credit management teams.
and capital management committees in the normal course of business.
Where exposures are in excess of limits, they are treated in the same way as control breakdowns and reported on the relevant control log for Audit and Risk Committee review.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 76 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Currently 12 sell-side analysts from the UK and South Africa Employment matters actively provide coverage on the Company.
Further encouragement The Groups employment policies are designed to promote is given to other sell-side analysts to cover the Companys shares a working environment that supports the recruitment and retention in order to assist investors in assessing the Groups valuation, its of highly effective employees, improves productivity and fosters performance and the business environment in which it operates relationships that build on the diversity of its workforce.
They are and in making meaningful comparisons with peers.
regularly reviewed and updated to ensure their relevance for the locations to which they apply.
While local employment policies The Company, through its Investor Relations team, responds and procedures are developed by each business according to its to a variety of enquiries from investors and analysts.
own circumstances, the following key principles of employment are applied consistently throughout the Group: The Chairman makes contact with major investors during the year and arranges to meet them as required.
The Board is employees are recruited, retained, trained and promoted on updated regularly by the Investor Relations department on the basis of their suitability for the job, without discrimination key issues arising from any shareholder communications and in terms of race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, provided with reports to monitor changes in market or shareholder marital status, sexual orientation or disability whether in opinion.
The Company also periodically commissions existence at the commencement of employment or developing independent surveys of its major investors, the most recent subsequently unrelated to the task at hand.
In South Africa of which was carried out in June 2006. this principle is balanced with the requirement to address issues of employment equity and transformation, and the Group activities, operational and financial performance local businesses practices take due account of this: and outlook are communicated to financial markets through clear goals are established, together with training and annual and interim reports, regulatory news releases, feedback on performance, to deliver the Group or business speeches, transcripts and presentations, using a wide range objectives: of communication channels.
The Company holds two results a working environment is provided that meets the health and meetings a year, at the time of its preliminary and interim safety standards of the Group and local regulations and allows results, which are hosted and webcast simultaneously in employees to work to the best of their abilities, free from London and Johannesburg.
discrimination and harassment: employee involvement, consultation and communication Old Mutual plc fide-listed its shares from the Stockholm Stock are promoted through in-house publications, briefings, Exchange in September 2007, following which it has ceased roadshows and internet-based channels and relevant full quarterly reporting.
However, in May and November, the employee representative bodies: and Company issues an update on its sales performance in the the efforts of employees in contributing to the success of the previous quarter-year accompanied by a teleconference call for Group are appropriately recognised.
Compensation systems analysts and institutional investors.
From 2008, these business are structured to recognise and reward both the efforts of updates will be made in accordance with the requirements individuals and the performance of the business sector of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules relating to interim in which they work.
Group values The Companys public announcements, statements and The Group values were communicated across Skandia through presentations to the investor community are posted on the a series of workshops held during the year.
Employees were Companys website in a timely fashion.
The website provides a encouraged to explore their meaning and to understand the valuable source of both historical and current information, as well related behaviours they were expected to adopt as part of as useful tools relating to share price and dividend calculations, the Group.
In addition, all major announcements by the Company and its affiliates are emailed to the Investor Relations In addition to the four common values of Integrity, Respect, departments investor database as they are made public.
Accountability and Pushing Beyond Boundaries, each business may select a fifth value for itself and, at a senior management meeting in July 2007, Skandia senior managers selected Passion as its additional value.
The values were also introduced into Skandia:BSAM, the Groups joint venture in China, through a series of employee workshops.
The annual Group Values Survey measured wider aspects of employee engagement and discretionary effort, both of which are lead indicators of performance.
The survey showed that the Groups employees generally delivered high levels of discretionary effort.
It also identified that retention in the Groups South African businesses needed to be addressed better.
Each business is accountable for determining the actions required to address issues identified through the survey and these will be reported to the Group Executive at the end of the first quarter of 2008, with progress reports made quarterly thereafter.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 77 Executive talent review Management Development Programme The identification and retention of talented staff are important The Company continued during 2007 to roll out to all regions to Old Mutual.
Businesses are required annually to review its Management Development Programme initiated in 2006. their current and future people needs as well as to understand The programme architecture provides clarity across the Group the career aspirations of their employees, and to establish on management accountabilities at all levels and enables each development plans to meet these twin needs.
A significant business to map its development programmes accordingly.
amount of both Group Executive and Board time was spent this year reviewing the Groups executive talent and succession plans.
The pilot Business Manager programme in October brought To support this review and provide greater insight, a quantitative together people from across the Group to develop the specific analytical tool has been developed to identify areas of greater risk skills essential for success and to share experiences, create and enable targeted action plans to be applied.
networks and learn from each other.
This programme has actively involved the Group Executive and the Board.
Profile of the senior leadership group Directors shareholdings and share dealings Turnover in the senior leadership group during 2007 was 17%, of which 4% was voluntary, 4% attributable to retirements and The Remuneration Committee has established guidelines on 9% to managed exits.
The Company continued to strengthen shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under its leadership bench through the development of high-potential these, the Chief Executive is expected to build up a holding of internal candidates and the targeted selection of external shares in the Company equal in value to at least 150% of annual candidates for specific roles.
base salary within five years of appointment: the equivalent figure for other executive directors is 100% of annual base salary.
The senior leadership group continues to grow in experience, Further details of the executive directors shareholdings and with more than 60% of its members having over five years interests in awards under the Companys employee share plans experience with the Group, and 7% new to the Group in 2007. are contained in the Remuneration Report.
The Board has 16% of people have been in position for less than one year, considered whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for nonwhich compares with over 50% in 2006 following the executive directors, but does not consider this to be appropriate.
acquisition of Skandia and other restructuring undertaken during that year.
All directors of the Company, together with other persons discharging managerial responsibilities in relation to the Diversity Company, are restricted persons for the purposes of the Model Code annexed to section LR9 of the Listing Rules of the Financial A single measure for ethnic diversity is not practical given the Services Authority.
The Company continues to operate provisions geographic spread of Old Mutuals business activities.
Each equivalent to those set out in the Model Code for a wider region has therefore been tasked with determining its own category of employee insiders who hold certain senior positions appropriate ethnic diversity targets.
The Group will begin around the Group, even though the Model Code itself no longer tracking progress against these targets during 2008. requires this.
The Model Code imposes restrictions on the periods when restricted persons may deal in affected securities which The Group Executive has committed to a Group-wide target of comprise shares and other listed securities of the Company and 30% for gender diversity in the senior leadership group.
Women other quoted entities within the Group.
Dealings by restricted currently represent 20% of the senior leadership group, which persons during open periods must be pre-cleared through the already exceeds the Corporate Leadership Council benchmark appropriate designated officer of the Company, and any dealings of 18%.
in affected securities by the directors or other persons discharging managerial responsibilities are required to be publicly announced The Groups South African businesses continue to implement once they have been notified to the Company.
The lists of recruitment and retention policies and practices aimed at persons discharging managerial responsibilities and other ensuring that Old Mutual plays a leading role in the employment employee insiders are regularly reviewed.
Currently all members equity transformation of the country.
Additional effort is being of the Group Executive, together with certain other heads of made to develop and retain black employees so that local major businesses, are regarded as persons discharging businesses are able to meet and, where possible, exceed the managerial responsibilities.
code targets prescribed by the South African Department of Labour.
Directors indemnities Succession planning Following a change in applicable UK law introduced by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act The Group has established targets for its businesses for the 2004, the Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity number of succession candidates over various timeframes.
in favour of each of the directors.
These are dated as follows: Planned successors in the oneto three-year timeframe have Messrs Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Collins, Edey, Roberts and improved over 2006.
In South Africa 60% of planned succession Sutcliffe 19 October 2005: Mr Khoza 24 February 2006: candidates are black, which underlines the businesses focus Messrs Nicholls and Otterbeck 15 November 2006: on meeting the transformation targets referred to above.
Messrs Nqwababa and Pym 17 December 2007.
A specimen copy of the indemnities is available in the Corporate Governance International mobility section of the Companys website.
During 2007, 71 people were on secondments outside their home country as compared to 44 in 2006, demonstrating the Groups commitment to developing its talent.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 78 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Supplier payment policy Out of the 5,510,272,537 shares in issue at 31 December 2007: In most cases suppliers of goods or services to the Group do 97,074,907 were held by the Company in treasury and a so under standard terms of contract that lay down terms of further 8,026,152 shares had been contracted to be bought payment.
In other cases, specific terms are agreed to beforehand.
back by the Company into treasury, but had not yet at that It is the Groups policy to ensure that terms of payment are date been settled into the Companys treasury shares account notified in advance and adhered to.
The Company has signed on the UK register: and the Better Payment Practice Code, an initiative promoted by a total of 239,734,104 shares were held by African life the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform subsidiaries of the Company, with 225,462,006 of these in the UK to encourage prompt settlement of invoices.
shares being held on books for the benefit of the Groups South African life operations and related businesses.
These The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its shares cannot be voted while they are held by subsidiaries service company subsidiary, Old Mutual Business Services of Old Mutual plc because of applicable provisions of UK Limited to trade creditors at 31 December 2007 amounted company law.
to 2,956,000, corresponding to 26 days payments when averaged over the year then ended.
The 105,101,059 shares bought back into treasury at 31 December 2007 comprised 74,153,587 shares repurchased Charitable contributions on the London Stock Exchange under the authority granted by The Group made a wide range of significant donations to Resolution 10 passed at the 2007 AGM at an average price charitable causes and social development projects during 2007, of 1.657 per share and 30,947,472 shares repurchased on as described in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility the JSE under the South African contingent purchase contracts section of this document.
The Company, its subsidiaries approved as part of Resolution 11 passed at the 2007 AGM in the UK, and the Old Mutual Bermuda Foundation collectively at an average price of R23.14 per share.
made charitable donations of 352,000 during the year 2006: 359,000.
The total number of voting rights in the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2007 which excludes Environmental matters the 97,074,907 shares held in treasury and the further A description of the Groups environmental policy and activities 8,026,152 shares contracted to be bought into treasury, during 2007 is contained in the Corporate Responsibility section but includes the shares held by the African life subsidiaries of this document.
Political donations Subsequent to the year end, in the period up to and including The Group made no EU or other political donations during 26 February 2008, the Company has issued 65,589 shares the year.
under its share option schemes at an average price of 97.02p each and has bought back into treasury a further 79,025,116 Dividend policy shares on the London Stock Exchange at an average price of 1.366p each.
The Companys issued share capital at The Boards policy on dividends is to seek to achieve steadily 26 February 2008 was accordingly 551,033,812.60 divided increasing returns to shareholders over time, reflecting the into 5,510,338,126 Ordinary Shares of 10p each of which underlying rate of progress and the cash flow requirements 184,126,175 were held or had been bought into treasury.
The Board anticipates declaring The total number of voting rights at 26 February 2008 was an interim dividend for the current year in August 2008, for 5,326,211,951. payment at the end of November 2008.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Share capital The following description summarises certain provisions of the The Company has a single class of share capital, which is current Articles of Association of the Company as adopted by divided into Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
The Companys issued special resolution passed on 14 May 2004 and amended on share capital at 31 December 2007 was 551,027,253.70 6 July 2005 the Articles and applicable English law concerning divided into 5,510,272,537 Ordinary Shares of 10p each companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006: 550,089,550.80 divided into 5,500,895,508 2006, together referred to as the Companies Acts.
This is Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
During the year ended 31 a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies December 2007, 9,377,029 shares were issued under the Acts or of the Articles should be consulted if further information Companys employee share option schemes at an average is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to these price of 93.2p each.
provisions in the new Articles that are proposed to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008.
Further details are Authorities from the shareholders for the Company to make market set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase the Companys current and proposed new Articles of Association contracts relating to each of the overseas exchanges on which the are available for inspection at the Companys registered office Companys shares are listed, up to an aggregate of 550,090,000 and also in the Annual General Meeting section of its website.
of its own shares were in force at 31 December 2007.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 79 Issue of shares Deadlines for voting rights Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Company may by ordinary resolution approve or as the directors Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and corporate members, by corporate representative.
Under the other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of Companies Acts, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot the Board.
At each Annual General Meeting the Company seeks be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before shareholder authority for the directors to allot up to a certain the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
The current amount of unissued shares, and up to a lower limit for cash.
Articles, however, provide a deadline for submission of not These limits are established having regard to the guidelines less than 48 hours before the meeting not excluding nonof the UK Investor Protection Committees.
Voting Dividends and distributions Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company shares, every member present in person at a general meeting or may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote.
In the case not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a Board may pay dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion exclusion of votes of the other joint shareholders and seniority of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu the register in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or dividends on other shares.
any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise shares from a person with an interest in 0.25% or more in the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that nominal value or in number, calculated exclusive of any shares member.
The Articles currently only entitle proxies to vote on held as treasury shares in the Companys share capital if such a poll, whereas the Companies Acts now entitle proxies to vote person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in on a show of hands.
It is therefore proposed that the new Articles the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008 concerning interests in those shares required to be provided will reflect this change in legislation.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more Liquidation individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class Under the Articles, on a liquidation the liquidator may, with the meeting as a corporate representative.
Where more than one sanction of a special resolution of the Company and any other corporate representative has been appointed, any one of them approvals required by legislation, divide among the members in is entitled to vote and exercise other powers on behalf of the kind all or part of the assets of the Company.
It is proposed to member at a general meeting or class meeting, but in the event amend the Articles at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May that the representatives votes or other powers conflict, the power 2008 to remove this provision as it is simply a reflection of is treated by the Company as not having been exercised and the applicable legislation.
member will be deemed to have abstained from exercising its votes or powers.
In order to avoid this rule having inappropriate Variation of rights consequences, the Company plans to adopt the Designated Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights Corporate Representative procedure recommended by the attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written Institute of Corporate Secretaries and Administrators as explained consent of the holders of not less that three quarters in nominal in more detail in the notes accompanying the Notice of Annual value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding General Meeting.
any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting Restrictions on voting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one third or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share in nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with attached to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation information concerning interests in those shares to be provided or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
However, under the Companies Acts.
because of the reference to extraordinary resolutions, which is a concept not retained in the Companies Act 2006, and since the proceedings and specific quorum requirements for meetings convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Acts, it is proposed to amend these provisions in the new Articles to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008.
Governance Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 80 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Transfer of shares Amendment to the Articles of Association Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the special resolution.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Articles do not apply to any uncertificated shares to the extent Meeting to be held on 8 May 2008 to adopt new Articles that such provisions are inconsistent with the holding of shares with effect from 1 October 2008 to bring them up to date in uncertificated form or with the transfer of shares by means of with provisions of the Companies Act 2006 then to be in force.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated The Companies Act 2006 was enacted on 8 November 2006 share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the and is being implemented in stages.
Details of the main changes Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in Articles in the new Articles are set out in the separate notice convening and where, in case of a transfer to joint holders, the number the Annual General Meeting.
of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Appointment and replacement of directors Under the Articles, directors shall be at least four and not more Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any or than 16 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the transferor and in the case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
The Board may from time to time appoint one The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the or more directors to hold employment or executive office for transferees name is entered into the register.
The Board may also such period subject to the Companies Acts and on such decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the terms as it may determine and may revoke or terminate any instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise such appointment.
shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, a minimum of such other evidence of the right to transfer it as the Board may one third of the directors shall retire by rotation.
The directors to reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office and iii if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four since their last election or re-election.
If there are directors who such transferees.
were last elected or re-elected on the same date, they can agree among themselves who is to retire, but if they do not agree, this The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the will determined by lot.
The Company may by special resolution Companys certificated shares by a person with an interest in remove any director before the expiration of his term of office.
0.25% or more in nominal value or in number, calculated The office of director shall be vacated if: i his resignation exclusive of any shares held as treasury shares in the is requested by all of the other directors and all of the other Companys share capital if such a person has been served with directors are not less than three in number: ii he delivers a a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to written letter of resignation at a meeting of the directors or to provide the Company with information concerning interests the Companys registered office: iii he is or has been suffering in those shares required to be provided under the Companies from mental ill health and the directors pass a resolution stating Acts, unless the transfer is pursuant to an outright sale to an that he has ceased to be a director: iv he is absent without independent third party.
permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is Repurchase of shares vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the or composition with his creditors: vi he is prohibited from Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with being or ceases to be a director by law or by any powers the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought may conferred on the Board or the Companys shareholders by the be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled Articles: vii he becomes a director of another company whose immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing business conflicts with that of any member of the Group without the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
Further permission of the Chairman: or viii his appointment as an details of the existing authorities that the Company was granted executive director is terminated or expires and the Board by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2007 resolves that his office is vacated.
and how these authorities have been used are set out under the heading Share capital earlier in this report.
Details of the proposed renewal of those authorities at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008 are set out in the shareholder circular relating to that meeting.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters 81 Powers of the directors Substantial interests in voting rights Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the At 26 February 2008, the following substantial interests in voting Articles, any legislation and any directions given by special rights had been declared to the Company in accordance with the resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by Disclosure and Transparency Rules: the directors, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, Number of % of whether relating to the management of the business of the voting rights voting rights Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the Franklin Resources Inc. 411,613,352 7.72 powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or Public Investment Corporation of the charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled Republic of South Africa 307,212,664 5.77 capital and to issue debentures and other securities and give Legal & General Group Plc 267,902,908 5.03 security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to Old Mutual Life Assurance Company any third party.
South Africa Limited 225,462,006 4.23 Shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts Going concern The shareholdings in the Company of the Groups employee The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate benefit trusts and the policies of those trusts on voting those resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
shares are described in the section of the Remuneration Report The Groups financial statements have accordingly been prepared entitled Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Significant agreements Disclosure of information to the auditors The following significant agreements to which the Company The directors who held office at the date of approval of this is a party contain provisions entitling counterparties to exercise Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, termination or other rights in the event of a change of control there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys of the Company: auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware 1,250 million Revolving Credit Facility the Facility dated of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 2 September 2005 between the Company, various syndicate Companys auditors were aware of that information.
banks the Banks and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as agent the Agent.
If a person or group of persons acting in concert gains Governing law control of the Company, the Company must notify the Agent.
The Agent and the Company will negotiate with a view to The Directors Report Business Review and this Directors agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Company and Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters together all of the Banks for continuing the Facility.
If such negotiations comprise the directors report for the purposes of section fail within 30 days of the original notification to the Agent 463 i a of the Companies Act 2006.
The Remuneration by the Company, the Banks become entitled to declare any Report set out in this document is the directors remuneration outstanding indebtedness repayable by giving notice to the report for the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
Agent within 15 days of the 30-day period mentioned above.
English law governs the disclosures contained in and liability Upon receiving notice for payment from the Agent, the for the directors report and the directors remuneration report.
Company shall pay the outstanding sums within three business days to the relevant Bank s : By order of the Board Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. the Issuer $750 million Martin C Murray 8 per cent.
Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Group Company Secretary Securities the Preferred Securities guaranteed on a 27 February 2008 subordinated basis by the Company.
Under the terms of the Preferred Securities, the Issuer is required to give notice to the holders of such securities the Holders in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In such case the Issuer and the Company agree, to the extent that such action is within their reasonable control, to vary the terms of the Preferred Securities and the Companys guarantee and to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that the entity that has acquired control of the Company the Acquiror gives such undertakings as are necessary in order to preserve the rights of the Holders.
The Issuer and the Company shall also take such steps as are in their reasonable control to ensure that the economic interests of the Holders are not adversely affected by the actions of the Acquiror following the change of control.
