Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial representation on the Board, including David Beever, who Reporting Council in July 2003.
Throughout the year ended has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
30 September 2007 the Company complied with the This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board provisions of the Code, except for Code provisions A3.2 in is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving relation to the number of independent non-executive major agreements, transactions and other financing directors, A4.1 in relation to the constitution of the matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group Nominations Committee and B2.1 in relation to the against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant constitution of the Remuneration Committee.
An information on financial, business and corporate issues explanation of this temporary departure is given under prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of the section of this report headed Directors.
ectors matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, At the beginning of the year the Board of Directors granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and comprised the Chairman, four executive and four the executive directors, determination and approval of the non-executive directors.
Gavin Lickley, an independent Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, non-executive director, retired from the Board on investment decisions, corporate governance policies and 12 October 2006 and Terence Eccles was appointed to the financing and dividend policies.
Board as an independent non-executive director on 1 February 2007.
Jonathan Perry, the former Chairman, Normally, there are ten regular Board meetings a year resigned from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual with other meetings being held as required.
Robert Dench, General Meeting on 8 February 2007 and Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington, Nicholas Keen and Pawan Pandya an independent non-executive director, was appointed attended all of the ten regular Board meetings during the Chairman on that date.
The Board is now seeking to year ended 30 September 2007.
Christopher Newell appoint at least one further independent non-executive attended nine meetings, John Heron and David Beever director, which will ensure compliance with Code attended eight meetings, Terence Eccles attended all provision A3.2.
seven meetings following his appointment to the Board and Jonathan Perry attended all three meetings up to the All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and date of his retirement from the Board.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at least All of the non-executive directors are independent of once in every three years.
The names of the directors in management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They office at the date of this report and their biographical are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and details are set out on pages 12 and 13. strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 32 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Board also operates through a number of committees The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the covering certain specific matters, these being: year consisted of Christopher Newell, who chairs the Committee, David Beever, Gavin Lickley until his The Remuneration Committee, which during the year retirement from the Board on 12 October 2006, consisted of Gavin Lickley, who chaired the Committee Robert Dench until his appointment as Chairman on until his retirement from the Board on 12 October 2006, 8 February 2007 and Terence Eccles following his Terence Eccles following his appointment to the Board appointment to the Board on 1 February 2007.
The on 1 February 2007, Jonathan Perry until his retirement Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee from the Board on 8 February 2007, David Beever have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee is chaired by The Committee meets at least three times per year.
It monitors the integrity of the Groups financial On his appointment as Chairman Robert Dench reporting, reviews the Groups internal control and risk remained a member of the Committee in accordance management systems, monitors and reviews the with the revised Code, published in June 2006, which effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, permits the Company Chairman to be a member of the monitors the relationship between the Group and the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst this is not permitted external auditors and provides a forum through under section B2.1 of the current Code, Mr Denchs which the Groups external and internal audit functions membership of to the Committee accords with the report to the non-executive directors.
The Committee is revised Code which will apply to the Company from also responsible for ensuring that the system and 1 October 2007. controls for regulatory compliance are effective.
The Company is in the process of recruiting at least one The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the scope new independent non-executive director who will join the and the results of the annual external audit, its cost Committee in place of Jonathan Perry.
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Both the Audit and Compliance During the year ended 30 September 2007 there were Committee and the external auditors have in place seven meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
safeguards to avoid compromises of the independence All meetings were attended by Robert Dench and and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Group has a David Beever, five meetings were attended by formal policy for the engagement of its external auditors Terence Eccles following his appointment to the to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to Committee on 1 February 2007 and three meetings ensure that neither the nature of the service to be were attended by Jonathan Perry up to his retirement provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services from the Board on 8 February 2007. could impact the objectivity of the external auditors Further information about the Remuneration Committee opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy is given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders incorporates a comprehensive system for reporting to on Directors Remuneration on pages 18 to 28. the Audit and Compliance Committee all proposals considered and the level of fees payable to the external auditors for the provision of non-audit services.
In pursuance of this policy other accounting firms have been engaged for particular assignments.
At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, compliance functions.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 33 The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and other The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Group Company Secretary, Director of Business Analysis Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
It meets regularly and Planning, Director of Legal Services, Head of and monitors Group interest rate risks, currency risks Internal Audit and a partner from the external auditors and treasury counterparty exposures.
normally attend meetings of the Committee.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate During the year ended 30 September 2007 there were senior executives and chaired by Nicholas Keen, three meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee the Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is and all members of the Committee were present at responsible for establishing credit policy and each meeting.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, All Board committees operate within defined terms of who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and reference and sufficient resources are made available to two non-executive directors, David Beever and them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of Christopher Newell.
Jonathan Perry was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Audit and Compliance the Committee until his retirement from the Board on Committee and Nomination Committee are available on 8 February 2007.
The Company is in the process of request from the Company Secretary.
recruiting at least one new independent non-executive The composition of the Board and its committees is kept director, who will join the Committee ensuring that a under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an majority of the Committees members are independent appropriate balance of power and authority between non-executive directors, in accordance with Code executive and non-executive directors and that the provision A4.1.
The Committee is convened as required directors collectively possess the skills and experience to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, necessary to direct the Company and the Groups although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests business activities.
There were two meetings of the There is an established process for external appointments Nomination Committee in the year ended 30 September through the Nomination Committee.
All of the members of the Committee attended appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
both meetings, other than David Beever who attended Executive director appointments are based upon merit and one meeting.
The Committee only engages in the business need.
Non-executive appointments are based process of identification of suitable candidates for upon the candidates profiles matching those drawn up by appointment to the Board when requested by the Board the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board to do so.
approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
There is a formal process for the appointment of The Board, individual directors and Board committees directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, are appraised annually.
The performance of the size and composition, leading to the preparation of a Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The written job specification and the identification of suitable performance of the other executive directors is appraised candidates.
The Nomination Committee ensures that by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient The results of these appraisals are presented to the time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the Remuneration Committee for consideration and benefits that can flow from non-executive directors determination of remuneration.
holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any During the year the Board conducted a formal and commitments that might affect the time they can devote rigorous performance review, which was effected by all to the Company.
The choice of appointee would be Board directors considering a list of questions on Board based entirely on merit.
and Committee performance, followed by a Board discussion facilitated by the Chairman.
34 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm Accountability and audit to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main non-executive director, that, following formal performance business lines are included within the Chairmans evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
these, together with the Directors Report on pages 14 to 15 to present a balanced and understandable assessment The non-executive directors meet at least annually to of the Companys position and prospects.
review the performance of the Chairman.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is Directors remuneration described on page 29.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of executive directors and members of senior management An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and prior to determining its recommendations on annual managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the the Boards determination.
year ended 30 September 2007 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of Remuneration is on pages 18 to 28. internal control for this period and that these procedures Relations with shareholders accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for The Board encourages communication with the Directors on the Combined Code.
Companys institutional and private investors.
All The directors are responsible for the system of internal shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of control throughout the Group and for reviewing its the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage committee chairmen are available for questions.
The rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Annual General Meeting is held in London during business business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report absolute, assurance against the risk of material to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have are counted and the balance for and against each regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits resolution is announced.
from particular aspects of the control system.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have The system of internal control includes documented a full programme of meetings with institutional investors procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk during the course of the year and investors comments management, personnel matters and operations, are communicated to all members of the Board.
clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a The Companys web site at www.
co. uk formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, provides access to information on the Company and management reporting and review process, the use of key its businesses.
performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 35 The Board receives regular reports setting out key After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board expectation that a rights issue will be completed or operates a formal risk management process, from which alternative funding will be put in place to enable the key risks facing the business are identified.
The repayment of the corporate facility and that the Group process results in reports to the Board on how these risks will have adequate resources to continue in operational are being managed.
The Board has a programme of existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, regular presentations from senior management to enable they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the Board to review the operation of internal controls in preparing the accounts.
relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Going concern basis As referred to in note 45, the Group has a 280.0m committed corporate syndicated sterling bank facility which is used to provide working capital.
This facility is fully drawn and falls due for repayment on 27 February 2008.
To enable the repayment of this facility the Company has entered into an agreement with UBS, described in note 57, whereby the Company has the right to require UBS to underwrite, in full, an equity financing of up to 280.0m before expenses.
The obligation of UBS is subject to the normal conditions, including all relevant approvals, including shareholder approval, being obtained: the absence of any material adverse change affecting the Group: and the absence of any force majeure event.
Such conditionality gives rise to a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore it may, if it is unable to satisfy these conditions and in the absence of other funding alternatives, be unable to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.
36 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
