PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 24 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Statement of Compliance with the new Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide The Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
On 3 February 2006, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that AIC Member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide were meeting their obligations in relation to the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance subsequently reviewed and updated in 2006 the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules relating to additional items to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts.
This Statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code, following the AIC Guide, have been applied in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code refers to the AIC Code following the AIC guide.
During the year under review, the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Management Engagement Committees were reviewed and updated to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys corporate governance procedures and policies are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Directors believe that throughout the period under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, and as a result the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters discussed below as being in course of implementation and except as explained under the relevant sections.
Directors Independence The Board comprises seven non executive Directors, five of whom are considered wholly independent.
Sir Martyn Arbib was founder and Chairman of Perpetual plc, which was acquired by INVESCO PLC formerly AMVESCAP PLC in December 2000.
The Manager, INVESCO Asset Management Limited, is a subsidiary of INVESCO PLC.
Ed Burke is an employee of an INVESCO Group company.
The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 11.
All Directors are equally responsible under the law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs.
In addition, they are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the best interests of all the Companys shareholders and that the best interests of the creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of, Sir Martyn Arbib, Mr James DAlbiac and Mr Antony Hardy in light of them having served on the Board for over eleven years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent from the Companys Manager.
Chairman The Chairman is Sir Patrick Sheehy, a non-executive and wholly independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all Directors are non-executive and day to day management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Due to the size of the Board, the Board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Sir Patrick Sheehy will be retiring at the AGM on 19 July 2007.
He will be succeeded by Mr William Alexander who was appointed to the Board on 28 March 2006.
Mr Alexander is a wholly independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director The AIC Code recommends the appointment of a Senior Independent Director.
The Board has therefore appointed Mr James DAlbiac as the Senior Independent Director, who is available to PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 25 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Manager have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Supply of Information The Manager ensures that Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information to enable informed decisions to be made.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance and industry and other issues.
Board Responsibilities The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs.
The Board is responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule of matters was reviewed and updated in May 2007 to ensure compliance with the latest best practice and the AIC Code.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives: assessing the Manager: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting policies and dividend policy: managing the capital structure: setting longterm objectives and strategy: reviewing investment performance: approving loans and borrowing: appraising recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees: and assessing and controlling risks.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company.
It can also be viewed at www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Managers Responsibilities The Manager is responsible for the day-to-day investment management decisions of the Company and for the provision of company secretarial and administration services.
A statement of the Managers responsibilities is shown on page 20.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of INVESCO Asset Management Limited can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, INVESCO Asset Management Limited.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that all applicable regulations are observed.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 5,000, having first consulted the Chairman.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 26 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Appointment, Re-election, Tenure and the Nomination Committee As the Board is considered small for the purposes of the Code, all the independent Directors are members of the Nomination Committee under the Chairmanship of Sir Patrick Sheehy.
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to review the size, structure and skills of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes considered necessary or new appointments.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference were reviewed and updated in May 2007 to ensure compliance with the latest best practice and the AIC Code.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which, along with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at the AGM.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee can also be viewed at www.
To date the Nomination Committee has not used an executive search consultancy or open advertising when seeking new candidates for appointment as the Directors have considered that the candidates found from sources within the Company and through its advisers have been of a sufficiently high quality.
The Articles of Association require that each Director shall retire at an AGM at least every three years after appointment or as the case may be last reappointment, and may offer themselves for reelection.
No Director serves a term of more than three years before re-election.
A Directors normal tenure of office will be for three terms of three years, except that the Board may determine otherwise if it is considered that the continued participation on the Board of an individual Director is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
If this is the case then a long serving Director will stand for re-election annually at the Companys AGM.
Due to their length of service, Sir Martyn Arbib, Mr James DAlbiac and Mr Antony Hardy will seek re-election annually.
Mr Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on 21 May 2007 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, will be subject to election by shareholders at this years AGM.
Mr Ed Burke is an employee of an INVESCO Group Company and therefore, in accordance with recommendations laid down by the AIC Code will be subject to annual re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors seeking election or re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders for their support resolutions 2 through to 6 relating to the Directors seeking re-election or election.
Directors Induction and Training On appointment to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are kept informed throughout their terms in office of industry and regulatory developments.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors, which includes briefings from key members of the Manager.
The Board are continually updated with any changes to corporate governance processes, the Listing Rules and other regulatory issues as well as being notified of relevant external training courses available to them.
The Articles of Association provide that the Directors may, by notice in writing, remove any Director from the Board without notice or compensation.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
During the year, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 27 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Directors Remuneration Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 and 23.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 30.
The Auditors Report appears on pages 31 and 32.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Messrs Antony Hardy, James DAlbiac, William Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette.
As the Board is considered small for the purposes of the AIC Code, all independent Directors, except the current Chairman, are members of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, will be available for inspection at the AGM at the Registered Office of the Company and can be viewed at www.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft interim and annual reports to shareholders and to review the accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Companys Auditors, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and financial statements are reviewed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The effectiveness of the Companys operations has been reviewed, and the control systems codified to facilitate regular monitoring and management of risks and to facilitate regular review by the Audit Committee.
As stated above, the Board meets regularly and reviews financial reports and performance against revenue forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, investment management and accounting activities and reviewed annually by the Board.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal Audit Function The Directors have reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function, but in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities consider that such a function is not necessary.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 28 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Auditors Non-audit Services The Companys auditors did not provide any non-audit services to the Company during the year 2006: nil.
It is the Companys policy not normally to seek substantial non-audit services from its auditors.
The scope for non-audit services is reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved prior to the Auditors engagement.
The Management Engagement Committee As the Board is considered small for the purposes of the AIC Code, all the independent Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Sir Patrick Sheehy.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the Registered Office of the Company and www.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
A statement of INVESCO Asset Management Limiteds responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on page 20.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at scheduled Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Board members also attended a number of ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
AUDIT MANAGEMENT NOMINATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED Sir Patrick Sheehy 5 5 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Mr William Alexander 5 52 21 11 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr James DAlbiac 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 Mr Antony Hardy 5 52 21 11 1 Mr Ed Burke 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the interim and annual reports and accounts which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares which is published via the Stock Exchange and by a monthly factsheet.
Both the Manager and the Companys brokers are also in regular contact with shareholders and regularly report to the Directors on their views.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman at the AGM and all shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 12.
At other times the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 29 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional shareholders are regularly reported to the Board.
Shareholders can also visit www.
co. uk investmenttrusts in order to access copies of annual and interim reports and accounts: shareholder circulars: Company factsheets: Stock Exchange announcements: schedule of matters reserved for the Board: terms of reference of Board Committees: various corporate governance polices: the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Institutional Voting The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
Your Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis and are not simply passed back to the company concerned for discretionary voting by its chairman.
Socially Responsible Investing Your Manager considers many factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, for example, free cash flow, earnings per share, price to book and more.
Others are more subjective indicators, which rely more on first hand research, such as quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risks and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made in that company on these grounds alone.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
