Corporate governance Corporate governance report Governance and the role of the Board an additional period.
The terms and conditions of appointment The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating of all directors are available for inspection at the Companys and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the registered office during normal business hours and at the management of the Groups business.
This governance report Annual General Meeting.
explains Prudentials governance policies and practices, and The Board is actively engaged in succession planning sets out how the Board manages the business for the benefit for both executive and non-executive roles to ensure of shareholders, promoting long-term shareholder interest.
composition is periodically renewed, and that the Board The governance rules applicable to all UK companies retains its effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are established review process that is applied across all businesses set out in the Combined Code, published by the Financial and covers both director and senior management succession Reporting Council in June 2003, and revised in 2006.
The Board reviews the outcomes of the directors believe that good corporate governance is central to review annually and actions arising from the review are achieving the Groups objectives and maximising shareholder implemented as part of the management development agenda.
value, and are committed to high standards of corporate We believe that our non-executive directors bring a wide range governance.
The Board supports the Combined Code, of business, financial and global experience to the Board and and confirms that it has complied with all of the provisions its committees.
Our executive directors, who head up the set out in Section 1 throughout the financial year ended main businesses of the Group, each bring an in-depth 31 December 2007, and has applied the principles as set understanding to the Board of their particular business, out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
its markets and its challenges, ensuring coverage of the breadth and depth of the Groups principal activities.
Board composition, appointments and election re-election As at 31 December 2007, the Board comprised the Chairman, Role of the Board six executive directors and eight independent non-executive The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate directors.
During the year, Sir Winfried Bischoff and Ann and clearly defined, and the scope of these roles has been Godbehere were appointed by the Board as non-executive approved by the Board so that no individual has unfettered directors on 2 August 2007, and Roberto Mendoza retired as powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the a non-executive director after seven years in office on 17 May leadership and governance of the Board as a whole and the 2007, with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group and Meeting.
Tidjane Thiam will join the Board as Chief Financial the implementation of Board strategy and policy on the Boards Officer on 25 March 2008.
The biographies of all current behalf.
In discharging his responsibilities, the Group Chief directors and Tidjane Thiam are set out on pages 87 to 88.
Executive is advised and assisted by the Group Executive The Board may appoint directors, up to the maximum Committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a total number of 20 directors set out in the Companys Articles Group Head Office GHO team of functional specialists.
of Association, and any director appointed by the Board James Ross is the Companys Senior Independent Director, will retire at the first Annual General Meeting following his to whom concerns may be conveyed by shareholders if they or her appointment and offer himself or herself for election are unable to resolve them through the existing mechanisms by shareholders.
Accordingly, Sir Winfried Bischoff, Ann for investor communications, or where such channels are Godbehere and Tidjane Thiam will retire and offer themselves inappropriate.
for election at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2008.
The Boards terms of reference, which are regularly Under the current Articles of Association of the Company, reviewed, set out those matters specifically reserved to it for all directors must retire as directors at least every three years, decision, in order to ensure that it exercises control over the and therefore Keki Dadiseth and James Ross will retire and offer Groups affairs.
These include approval of the annual and themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on interim results, strategy and corporate objectives, operating 15 May 2008.
The current Articles of Association also state plans, significant transactions and matters affecting the that at every Annual General Meeting at least one third of the Companys share capital.
current directors must retire by rotation and therefore Kathleen ODonovan and Lord Turnbull will retire by rotation at the Powers of directors Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2008 and offer themselves The management and control of the business and affairs for re-election.
Philip Broadley, Group Finance Director until of the Company are vested in the Board.
The Board may 25 March 2008, will also retire at the Annual General Meeting exercise all powers conferred on it by the Memorandum of on 15 May 2008.
Association, the Articles of Association, and the Companies Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an initial Acts.
This includes the powers of the Company to borrow three-year term, commencing with their election by shareholders money and to mortgage or charge any of its assets subject at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
to limitations in the Companies Acts and the Articles and to Each appointment is reviewed towards the end of this period give a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of a debt against performance and the requirements of the Groups or other obligation of the Company.
The Board may exercise businesses.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to all powers and do everything within the power of the serve for two three-year terms from their initial election by Company, other than matters required by the Companies shareholders, although the Board may invite them to serve for Acts to be dealt with in general meeting.
89 Corporate governance report continued Governance framework is held at one of the Groups business operations to facilitate To promote effective governance across all of its operations, a fuller understanding of the business.
In January 2007, the Board has approved a governance framework which maps a Board meeting was held in Mumbai, and the Board visited out the internal approvals processes and those matters which the Groups various operations in Mumbai, and attended may be delegated.
These principally relate to the operational a day of presentations given by senior managers of Prudential management of the Groups businesses and include preCorporation Asia.
These presentations covered the diversity determined authority limits delegated by the Board to the of businesses across Asia and included presentations by the Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect Indian joint venture companies with ICICI, and by the country of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day heads of a number of our different operations.
The Board also running and management of the business.
spent half a day visiting the Groups Mumbai operations centre The chief executive of each business unit, who in respect and meeting senior operations managers.
of his business unit reports to the Group Chief Executive, has The majority of directors attended all eight scheduled authority for management of that business unit and has Board meetings occurring during their period in office, apart established a management board comprising its most senior from some absence due to prior commitments.
In accordance with the Group Governance three additional Board meetings, and the majority of the Framework, business unit chief executives annually certify directors attended those meetings.
Where directors were not their compliance with the requirements of the framework.
able to attend any of the meetings, their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
The table below details Board and committee meetings and attendance the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by During 2007, the Board met 11 times and held a separate each director throughout the year.
A further nine ad hoc strategy meeting.
Each year, at least one of the Board meetings Board Committee meetings took place during the year.
Full  Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings in year 11 772 Sir David Clementi 11 11 n a n a 2 2 note 1 Sir Winfried Bischoff 2 2 n a n a n a Philip Broadley 11 11 n a n a n a note 2 Keki Dadiseth 10 11 6 7 7 7 n a note 3 Michael Garrett 10 11 n a 7 7 n a note 4 Ann Godbehere 2 2 2 2 n a n a note 5 Bridget Macaskill 10 11 n a 7 7 2 2 Clark Manning 11 11 n a n a n a note 6 Michael McLintock 10 11 n a n a n a note 7 Roberto Mendoza 5 5 n a 3 3 n a note 8 Kathleen ODonovan 9 11 7 7 n a n a Nick Prettejohn 11 11 n a n a n a James Ross 11 11 7 7 n a 2 2 Barry Stowe 11 11 n a n a n a Mark Tucker 11 11 n a n a n a Lord Turnbull 11 11 7 7 n a n a Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the Notes individual could have attended in the period in which they were a Board 1 Appointed as a director on 2 August 2007. or Committee member.
2 Attended all scheduled Board meetings, but was unable to attend one of the additional Board meetings and one of the Audit Committee During 2007, there were eight scheduled Board meetings and three meetings due to prior commitments.
In addition, there was a strategy event 3 Attended all scheduled Board meetings, but was unable to attend one attended by all directors.
of the additional Board meetings due to a prior commitment.
During 2007, there were seven scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
4 Appointed as a director on 2 August 2007 and as a member of the During 2007, there were four scheduled Remuneration Committee Audit Committee on 1 October 2007. meetings and three additional meetings.
5 Attended all scheduled Board meetings, but was unable to attend one of the additional Board meetings due to a prior commitment.
6 Unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a long-standing prior commitment.
7 Resigned as a director on 17 May 2007.
8 Unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a long-standing prior commitment, and unable to attend one of the additional Board meetings due to a prior commitment.
90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance The Chairman meets, at least annually, with the non-executive prior discussion with the Group Chief Executive, and always directors without the executive directors being present.
provided this does not lead to any conflicts of interest.
In line During 2007, a meeting without the executive directors with the Combined Code, executive directors would be took place in December.
expected to hold no more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
A number of our executive directors Board independence hold directorships of companies in the arts and educational The Company follows the Combined Code when sectors, for which they do not receive any fees.
One of our determining the independence of its non-executive directors, executive directors, Michael McLintock, serves on the board and in addition to that guidance Prudential is required to affirm of Close Brothers Group plc.
The major commitments of our annually the independence of its Audit Committee members executive directors are detailed in their biographies on under Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Where necessary, the Board page 87.
Details of any fees retained are included in the ensures that appropriate processes are in place to manage any Directors Remuneration Report.
Our non-executive directors may serve on a number of In line with the principles of the Combined Code, the other boards, provided that they are able to demonstrate Chairman was independent on appointment.
Throughout the satisfactory time commitment to their role at Prudential, year all non-executive directors were considered by the Board and that they discuss any new appointment with the to be independent in character and judgement, and Chairman prior to accepting.
This ensures that they do independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
not compromise their independence and that any potential Keki Dadiseth also serves, at Prudentials request, as a nonconflicts of interest and any possible issues arising out of the executive director of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company time commitments required by the new role can be identified Limited, an Indian company which is owned 26 per cent by and addressed appropriately.
The major commitments of our Prudential, and of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian non-executive directors are detailed in their biographies set company which is owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The Board out on pages 87 to 88. does not consider that these appointments in any way affect his status as an independent director of Prudential.
Induction, development and evaluation Sir Winfried Bischoff has been Chairman of Citi Europe Induction and a Member of The Management, Operating and Business The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing Heads Committees of Citigroup Inc. since May 2000.
He is also tailored induction programmes for new directors and ongoing Chairman of the European Advisory Board of Citigroup Inc. training for all directors.
Upon appointment, all directors He was the acting Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Inc. embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, from 5 November 2007 to 11 December 2007 when he was amongst other things, the principal bases of accounting for the appointed Chairman of Citigroup Inc. Prudential has a number Groups results, the role of the Board and its key committees, of business relationships with Citi.
The Board believes that, in and the ambit of the internal audit and risk management respect of the Combined Code, these business relationships functions.
In addition, they receive detailed briefings on the are not sufficiently material to compromise his independence Groups principal businesses, its product range, the markets in matters relating to Prudential.
in which it operates and the overall competitive environment.
Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors Other areas addressed include legal issues affecting directors and the Board does not believe that this situation compromises of financial services companies, the Groups governance the independence of those non-executive directors who are arrangements, its investor relations programme, as well also on the boards of companies in which the Group has a as its remuneration policies.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company from having the most Ongoing development appropriate and highest calibre non-executive directors.
Throughout their period in office, directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and Other commitments industry-specific environments in which it operates, as well The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans other commitments as on their legal and other duties and obligations as directors do not interfere with the day-to-day performance of his duties where appropriate.
These updates can be in the form of for the Group, and that he has the commitment and capability written reports to the Board or meetings with senior executives to make himself available under unforeseen circumstances, and, where appropriate, external sources.
Non-executive should the need arise.
The major commitments of the directors serving on key committees are also updated regularly Chairman, including changes during the year are detailed in on matters specific to the relevant committee in order to his biography on page 87. enhance their knowledge and effectiveness throughout their Our executive directors may accept external directorships term in office.
and retain any fees earned from those directorships, subject to 91 Corporate governance report continued A programme of ongoing professional development Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent was undertaken for all directors in 2007, which covered a professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director to number of sector-specific and business issues as well as legal, the Company Secretary who will, where appropriate, circulate accounting and regulatory changes and developments.
Each to other directors sufficient information to ensure that other business unit head accompanied by relevant senior managers members of the Board are kept informed on issues arising gave a presentation to the Board during the course of the year which affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
on the challenges and opportunities currently faced by their business unit.
In addition, senior managers of certain head Directors interests office functions, including Group Risk and Investor Relations, Details of each directors interests in shares of the Company presented to the Board on the key issues currently being are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 113. handled by the function.
Directors indemnities and protections Performance evaluation The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in Prudential continued its programme of annual evaluations of respect of legal action against directors and senior managers the performance of the Board and its Committees in respect of companies within the Prudential Group.
In addition, the of 2007, in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Articles of Association of the Company permit the directors The aim was to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its and officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of committees, and enhance the Groups performance.
liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Prudential also In 2007, the evaluation of the Board as a whole and of provides protections for directors and senior managers of the Chairman was carried out by an independent consultant, companies within the Group against personal financial following a briefing by the Chairman and the Senior exposure they may incur in their capacity as such.
Each director and the members of include qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined the Group Executive Committee completed a questionnaire by the relevant Companies Act for the benefit of directors and were interviewed by the independent consultant.
The of Prudential, including, where applicable, in their capacity questions asked were based on the Combined Code and as directors of other companies within the Group.
These on previously identified matters, and sought views on the indemnities were in force during 2007 and remain in force.
effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and on the Chairmans performance.
The independent consultant prepared a report Risk management and internal control based on the various discussions held and presented and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system discussed the overall results of the evaluation with the Board in of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness, and February 2008.
The Board, without the Chairman present, met confirms that there is an ongoing process in place for under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director to identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks review the performance of the Chairman.
The use of external faced by the Company, which is reviewed regularly.
All providers for this purpose is kept under review.
business units are required to confirm annually that they have In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors undertaken risk management during the year as required by and the Group Chief Executive was evaluated by the Chairman the Group Risk Framework, and that they have reviewed the in individual meetings.
The Group Chief Executive individually effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
The results of appraised the performance of each of the executive directors.
this review are reported to and reviewed by the Group Audit Committee and the Board, and it was confirmed that effective Internal and external support processes of internal control, including financial, operational All directors have direct access to the services of the Company and compliance controls and risk management, as required Secretary who advises them on all corporate governance by the Group Risk Framework, were in place throughout the matters, on Board procedures, and on compliance with period covered by this report, and that they complied with the applicable rules and regulations.
In order to ensure good revised guidance on the Combined Code issued in October information flows, full Board and committee papers are 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
Internal audit teams execute provided to the directors by the Company Secretary in the risk-based audit plans throughout the Group, from which all ordinary course approximately one week before each Board significant issues are reported to the Group Audit Committee or committee meeting.
The procedures for the management of The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors risk and the systems of internal control operated by the Group have the right to seek independent professional advice at the are described in more detail in the Risk Management section Companys expense where this is appropriate to enable the on pages 72 to 80. directors, either individually or as a group, to properly fulfil their obligations.
92 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance In line with the Turnbull guidance, the certification provided In performing its duties, the Committee has access to employees above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where and their financial or other relevant expertise across the the Group does not exercise full management control.
In Group and to the services of the Group-wide Internal Audit these cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance Director and the Company Secretary.
The Committee may and risk management arrangements are in place to protect also seek external professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, the Group company who The Committees terms of reference, which are set by is party to the joint venture must, in respect of any services the Board and kept under regular review, are available on our it provides in support of the joint venture, comply with the website at http: www.
co. uk prudential-plc requirements of the Group Governance Framework, which aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may maps out the internal approvals processes.
In line with the be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, at Group Risk Framework and as set out within the section on the Companys registered office.
Risk Management on pages 72 to 80, the management of the relevant business unit discusses material issues and risks and Membership includes them, where appropriate, in the regular risk reports The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent to the Group.
non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: Disclosure of information to auditor Kathleen ODonovan ACA Chairman The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Keki Dadiseth FCA until 31 December 2007 directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Ann Godbehere FCGA from 1 October 2007 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys James Ross until 31 December 2007 auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps Lord Turnbull KCB CVO that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information Membership is selected to provide a broad set of financial, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of commercial and other relevant experience to meet the that information.
This confirmation is given and should be Committees objectives.
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section The Board has designated Kathleen ODonovan as its audit 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. committee financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes, and has determined that she also has recent and relevant Board Committees financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board has established audit, remuneration and nomination The Board has further determined that Ann Godbehere, committees as standing committees of the Board with written who held senior financial positions in the insurance sector, terms of reference, which are kept under regular review.
brings additional recent and relevant financial experience These committees are key elements of the Groups governance to the Committee.
framework, and reports on each are included below: Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out in their Audit Committee Report biographies on page 88.
This report sets out the responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee the Committee and the activities carried out Meetings by the Committee during the year to meet its objectives.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
By invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Finance Director, the Role of the Committee Company Secretary and Group Legal Services Director, the The Committees principal responsibilities consist of oversight Group-wide Internal Audit Director, and other senior staff from over financial reporting, internal control and risk management, the internal audit, group risk and group compliance functions and monitoring auditor independence.
Its duties include where appropriate, as well as the lead partner of the external gaining assurance on the control over financial processes and auditor attended meetings.
Other audit partners also attended the integrity of the Groups financial reports, monitoring the some of the meetings to contribute to the discussions relating performance, objectivity and independence of the external to their areas of expertise.
auditor, and reviewing the work of the internal auditor.
93 Corporate governance report continued A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number Financial reporting of years which is continually updated to ensure all matters for As part of its review of financial statements before which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the recommending their publication to the Board, the Committee appropriate time of year.
The Committees business during focused on: critical accounting policies and practices and any the year included the following: changes, decisions requiring a major element of judgement, unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures, significant audit Review of half-year and full-year results, press releases adjustments, the going concern assumption, compliance with and annual report and accounts: accounting standards, and compliance with obligations under examination of critical accounting policies and key the Combined Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
judgmental areas: In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by senior review of US filings and related external audit opinion: management on developments in international accounting review of changes in and implementation of Group standards.
Accounting Policies in compliance with International Accounting Standards and practices: Confidential reporting approval of external auditors management representation At each meeting, the Committee received and reviewed letter, review of external auditors full-year memorandum, a report on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is external audit opinion and final management letter: made available to employees to enable them to communicate monitoring of auditor independence and the external confidentially on matters of concern, and actions taken in auditors plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness of the response to these calls.
The Committee also considered external audit process, the external auditors qualifications, whether any internal control implications arose from expertise and resources, and making recommendations for communications received.
No internal control implications the re-appointment of the external auditor: were raised from calls to the confidential reporting line.
monitoring of the framework and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and Turnbull Business unit audit committees compliance statement, including Sarbanes-Oxley Each business unit has its own audit committee whose procedures: members and chairmen are independent of the respective monitoring the effectiveness of the Group Risk Framework business unit.
The chairmen of these committees report and reviewing the half-yearly key risk report: regularly to the Committee, and their meetings are attended by review of the internal audit plan and resources, and senior management of the respective business unit, including monitoring of the audit framework and internal audit the business units chief executives and heads of finance, risk, effectiveness: compliance and internal audit.
Business unit audit committees monitoring the effectiveness of compliance processes and have adopted standard terms of reference across the Group, controls, and performance against the Group Compliance with only minor variations to address overseas requirements or Plan: particular requirements of the business.
All terms of reference review of its own effectiveness, using external consultants, include escalation of significant matters to the Committee, and review of its terms of reference: and approval of the business unit internal audit plans and review of anti-money laundering procedures, and overseeing the adequacy of internal audit resources.
Also allegations received via the employee confidential included are presentations from external auditors, and private reporting lines.
meetings with local external auditors and the business unit heads of internal audit.
During the year, the business unit audit During the year, the Committees standing agenda items also committees reviewed and approved their respective internal included other reports from group-wide internal audit, group audit plans, resources and the results of internal audit work.
risk, group compliance and group security functions.
In addition, the Committee received presentations on a range Internal control and risk management of topics including financial control, risk management, and The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal actuarial assumptions and methodologies.
control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing of particular significance after each Committee meeting, and and managing business risks.
Throughout the year, the the minutes of Committee meetings were circulated to all Committee received the minutes of the Disclosure Committee Board members.
and the Group Operational Risk Committee and noted their The Committee recognises the need to meet without the activities.
Further information on those committees appears presence of executive management.
Such sessions were held on pages 98 and 74. in March 2007 with the external and internal auditors, and in July 2007 with the external and internal auditors and the Head of Group Security.
At all other times, management and auditors have open access to the Chairman.
94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbaneswith the latest standards and best practice in establishing, Oxley Act, the Group must undertake an annual assessment maintaining and monitoring auditor independence and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Further details are provided on page 99.
Audit fees Internal audit For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Committee The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit approved fees of 9.1 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
for audit services and other services supplied pursuant to Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting relevant legislation.
In addition, the Committee approved the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities under the Combined fees of 2.3 million to KPMG for services not related to audit Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and provides independent work, which accounted for 20 per cent of total fees paid to the assurance on the Companys processes of identification and external auditor in the year.
Non-audit services primarily related control of risk.
The Committee agreed the work programme to actuarial and basic tax compliance work, and to the provision of the internal audit function to be undertaken during 2007. of attestation and comfort letters.
In accordance with the Groups Each of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, Auditor Independence Policy, all services were approved prior the heads of which report regularly to the Group-wide Internal to work commencing, and each of the non-audit services was Audit Director.
Internal audit resources, plans and work are confirmed to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake, overseen by the Committee and by business unit audit as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Across the Group, total internal audit headcount the non-audit services being provided to the Group by KPMG stands at 135.
The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports at regular intervals during 2007.
A summary of audit fees is functionally to the Committee and for management purposes provided in note I4 on page 280. to the Group Chief Executive.
Formal reports are submitted to the Committee on a Auditor performance and independence quarterly basis, with interim updates where appropriate, As part of its work during 2007, the Committee assessed the and views are also sought at the private meetings between the performance of the external auditor, its independence and Committee and the internal auditors, as well as during regular objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In private meetings between the Chairman of the Committee addition to questioning the external auditor and the Group and the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Finance Director, which is a regular feature of meetings, The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process audit function by means of regular reviews, some of them was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise carried out by external advisers, and through ongoing dialogue administered by Group-wide Internal Audit, supplemented by with the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
External reviews interviews with senior finance staff and Committee members.
of internal audit arrangements and standards were also In addition, the Committee reviewed the external audit conducted in 2006 and 2007 to ensure that the activities and strategy and received reports from the auditor on its own resources of the function are most effectively organised to policies and procedures regarding independence and quality support the oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
These control, including an annual confirmation of its independence reviews, performed by Deloitte, confirmed that the internal in line with industry standards.
audit function complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors international standards for the professional practice of internal Re-appointment of auditor auditing and is operating effectively.
The Group operates a policy under which at least once every five years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee External audit to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the The external audit was last put out to competitive tender in external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship 1999 when the present auditor was appointed.
The Groups Auditor Independence and 2007 the Committee formally considered the need to Policy ensures that the independence and objectivity of the re-tender the external audit service and concluded that, given external auditor is not impaired.
The policy sets out four key the significant changes in accounting, audit and regulatory principles which underpin the provision of non-audit services requirements, the interests of the Company were better served by the external auditor, namely that the auditor should not: by retaining the existing auditor through a period of continuing change.
In addition, the Committee concluded that there was Audit its own firms work: nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring a change.
make management decisions for the Group: During the year, following the approval of the 2006 Annual have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or Report, a new lead audit partner was appointed by KPMG be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Audit Plc, in line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All services provided by the auditor in accordance with this Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness policy are pre-approved by the Committee.
The Committee and independence, the Committee has recommended to the reviewed and updated the policy in 2007 to ensure alignment Board that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the 95 Corporate governance report continued Company, and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Meetings Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold office until the end The Committee normally has scheduled meetings at least four of the 2009 Annual General Meeting will be put to a shareholder times a year and a number of additional meetings, as required, vote at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2008. to review remuneration policy and the application of that policy.
While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are Review of Committee effectiveness not members, they attend meetings unless they have a conflict During the year, the Committee undertook a formal review of interest.
During 2007, a total of seven Committee meetings of its own effectiveness, conducted by an independent were held.
consultant who prepared a report on the findings and presented this to the Committee at its meeting in October.
Nomination Committee Report Recommendations to improve processes identified by the Role of the Committee review were discussed by members, and improvements are The Nomination Committee the Committee, in consultation being implemented during 2008.
The Committee is satisfied, with the Board, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and based on the findings of this review, that it had been operating experience on the Board and identifies the role and capabilities as an effective audit committee, meeting all applicable required at any given time, taking into account the Groups legal and regulatory requirements.
Further reviews of the business.
Candidates are considered on merit against those effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken regularly, criteria, and the Committee makes recommendations to the and will from time to time be conducted by external Board regarding suitable candidates for appointments.
appropriate cases, search consultants are used to identify candidates.
Remuneration Committee Report The Committee has formal terms of reference set by the Role of the Committee Board, which are reviewed regularly, and which are available The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines on our website at http: www.
co. uk prudentialthe remuneration packages of the Chairman and executive plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies directors.
It also agrees the principles and monitors the level may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, and structure of remuneration for a defined population of at the Companys registered office.
senior management as determined by the Board.
In framing its remuneration policy, the Committee has given full Membership consideration to the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report prepared by the directors and the Chairman, as set out below: Board is set out in full on pages 102 to 123.
In preparing the report, the Board has followed the provisions of the Combined Sir David Clementi FCA MBA Chairman Code, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Bridget Macaskill and the Companies Acts.
James Ross Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, Meetings the Committee consults the Chairman and the Group Chief The Committee meets as required to consider candidates for Executive about the Committees proposals relating to the appointment to the Board and to make recommendations to the remuneration of all executive directors.
The Committee has Board in respect of those candidates.
The Group Chief Executive access to professional advice inside and outside the Company.
is closely involved in the work of the Committee and is invited to The Committee has formal terms of reference set by the attend and contribute to meetings.
Board, which are reviewed regularly, and which are available During 2007, the Committee met formally twice.
The on our website at http: www.
co. uk prudentialmembers of the Committee discussed candidates on a number plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies of other occasions throughout the year, as required by the may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, recruitment process.
The Chairman also updates the full Board at the Companys registered office.
on Committee matters on a regular basis.
During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Membership Sir Winfried Bischoff and Ann Godbehere as non-executive The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent directors, who were appointed by the Board on 2 August 2007, non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: and the appointment of Tidjane Thiam as an executive director, which will become effective on 25 March 2008.
Full Bridget Macaskill Chairman biographical details of these new directors are set out Keki Dadiseth FCA on pages 87 and 88.
Michael Garrett The process of evaluating the skills and composition of the James Ross from 1 January 2008 Board is ongoing, and is kept under regular review in order to ensure appropriate plans for succession to the Board are in Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out in their biographies on page 88.
96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance place.
During the year, the Committee continued the search Any change to the Memorandum or the Articles of Association for additional non-executive directors, which is an ongoing must be approved by special resolution of the shareholders in process, and employed professional search consultants to accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts.
Changes oversee the initial phase.
to the Articles of Association will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting.
Details of the proposed changes are set out Relations with shareholders in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is sent to Communication with shareholders shareholders and is also available on the Companys website As a major institutional investor, the Company is acutely at http: www.
co. uk prudential-plc investors aware of the importance of maintaining good relations with agminfo 2008 its shareholders.
We regularly hold discussions with major shareholders and a programme of meetings took place during Share capital 2007.
A perception survey into the views of the Companys On 31 December 2007, the Companys issued share major investors is undertaken on an annual basis by an capital, which is set out in note H11 on page 258, consisted independent firm, and the results of this survey are presented of 2,470,017,240 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all fully to the Board.
Board members also regularly receive copies paid up and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The number of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company of accounts on the share register at 31 December 2007 was and the sector, to further develop their knowledge and 75,948 2006: 79,881.
The Company is listed on the New York understanding of external views about the Company.
The Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, Chairman and the non-executive directors provided feedback referenced to its ordinary shares, under a depositary to the Board on topics raised with them by major shareholders.
Should major shareholders wish to meet newly appointed directors, or any of the directors generally, they are welcome Rights and obligations to do so.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares The Group maintains a corporate website are set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
co. uk containing a wide range of information There are no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, and of interest to private and institutional investors, including each share carries one vote on a poll.
If votes are cast on a the Groups financial calendar.
The shareholder information show of hands, each shareholder present in person or by section on pages 340 to 341 contains further details which may proxy has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, be of interest to shareholders.
in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants Annual General Meeting are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill owners, the voting rights are normally exercisable by the Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, registered owner, either at the trustees discretion or at the Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 15 May 2008 at 11.00am.
direction of the participants, in accordance with the relevant The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an plan rules.
Rights to dividends under the various schemes are important forum for both institutional and private shareholders set out in note I2 on pages 276 to 277. and encourages all its shareholders to vote.
Shareholders will again be given the opportunity to put questions to Restrictions on transfer the Board on matters relating to the Groups operations In accordance with English company law, shares may and performance.
be transferred by an instrument of transfer or through At its Annual General Meeting in 2007, the Company an electronic system currently CREST, and transfer is continued its practice of calling a poll on all resolutions.
The not restricted except that the directors may in certain voting results, which included all votes cast for and against circumstances refuse to register transfers of shares, but each resolution at the meeting, and all proxies lodged prior only if such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and published from taking place on an open and proper basis.
If the on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the directors make use of that power, they must send the meeting.
The Company also disclosed the number of votes transferee notice of the refusal within two months.
withheld at the meeting and on its website.
This practice Some of the Companys employee share plans include provides shareholders present with sufficient information restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to regarding the level of support and opposition to each the plan.
As described in the Directors Remuneration Report, resolution, and ensures all votes cast either at the meeting non-executive directors use a proportion of their fees to or through proxies are included in the result.
purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be transferred during a directors period of office.
In addition, all Company constitution directors hold a number of qualification shares, which they The Company is governed by the Companies Acts and would also be expected to retain during their tenure of office.
other applicable legislation, and by its Memorandum and the Articles of Association.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association are available on Prudentials website at http: www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru memorandum 97 Corporate governance report continued Significant shareholdings opinions, based on its audit of the financial statements and As at 13 March 2008, the Company had received notification its review of the EEV basis supplementary information: and to in accordance with Rule 5.1.
2 R of the UK Listing Authoritys report its opinions to the Companys shareholders and to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules from Legal & General Company, respectively.
Its opinions are given on pages 301 Investment Management Limited and in accordance with and 334.
Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 from Barclays PLC Company law requires the directors to prepare financial of holdings of 5.17 per cent and 3.025 per cent respectively statements for each financial year which give a true and fair of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
The criteria applied in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the statement of directors Powers of directors to issue shares responsibilities on page 300.
The directors require authority from shareholders in relation After making appropriate enquiries, the directors consider to the issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares are that the Group has adequate resources to continue its issued, the Company has to offer the shares to existing operations for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore shareholders pro rata to their holdings, unless it has been given continue to use the going concern basis in preparing the authority by shareholders to issue shares without offering them financial statements.
The Company seeks authority from its shareholders on an annual basis to issue shares, up to a US corporate governance and regulations maximum amount, and to issue up to five per cent of its issued The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act was passed by the US share capital without observing pre-emption rights, in line with Congress in July 2002 to establish new or enhanced standards relevant regulations and best practice.
for corporate accountability in the US.
As a result of the listing Details of shares issued during 2006 and 2007 are given of its securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company in note H11 on page 258.
Shares issued in 2005 dis-applying is required to comply with the relevant provisions of the Act pre-emption rights amounted to 745,478, which were issued as they apply to foreign private issuers, and has adopted under the Groups share option schemes.
The total number procedures to ensure this is the case.
of shares issued dis-applying pre-emption rights amounted In particular in relation to the provisions of Section 302 of to less than 7.5 per cent over the last three years.
the Act, which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has been established reporting to the Powers of directors to buy back shares Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Group Finance Director The directors also require authority from shareholders in relation and comprising members of senior management.
The to the buying back of shares by the Company.
The Company objectives of this Committee are to: seeks authority by special resolution on an annual basis for the buyback of its own shares in accordance with the relevant Assist the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance provisions of the Companies Acts and other related guidance.
Director in designing, implementing and periodically The Company has not made use of that authority since it was evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2007.
This existing procedures: authority is due to expire at the end of this years Annual General monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure Meeting.
A special resolution to approve the renewal of this controls and procedures: authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive Meeting on 15 May 2008. and Group Finance Director with regard to the scope and content of all public disclosures made by the Company Other information which are of material significance to the market or Financial reporting investors: and The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, performance and financial position of the Group and are matters raised by other components of the disclosure responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages process.
These may include, to the extent they are relevant 127 to 299 and the supplementary information on pages 302 to to the disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the 332.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to form independent Group Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor of the Companys internal controls.
98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to Compensation for loss of office support the certifications by the Group Chief Executive and None of the terms of employment of the Companys the Group Finance Director of the effectiveness of disclosure directors includes specific change of control agreements.
procedures and controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
Terms applying on a termination of their office are set out in The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require the the Directors Remuneration Report on page 110.
In the US, Companys management to report on the effectiveness of in line with normal employment practice, senior executives internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on participate on a discretionary basis in a plan which provides Form 20-F, which is filed with the US Securities and Exchange for compensation in the event that their employment is Commission.
To comply with this requirement to report on the terminated as a result of a takeover.
In addition, three effectiveness of internal control, the Group has undertaken a employees in our Asian business participate in a similar plan.
significant project to document and test its internal controls over financial reporting in the format required by the Act.
The annual assessment and related report from the external auditor will be included in the Groups annual report on Form 20-F that will be published in the coming months.
In addition, the Disclosure Committee has regard to the UK Listing Regime, and evaluates whether or not a particular matter requires disclosure to the market.
Payment policy It is the policy of the Group to agree terms of payment when orders for goods and services are placed and to pay in accordance with those terms.
Trade creditor days, based on the ratio of amounts which were owed to trade creditors at the year-end to the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 22 days.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material events affecting the Company since the end of the financial year.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation Holdings Limiteds life insurance and fund management joint ventures with China International Trust & Investment Corporation Citic, if there is a change of control of the Company, Citic may terminate the agreements and either i purchase the Companys entire interest in the joint venture or require the Company to sell its interest to a third party designated by Citic or ii require the Company to purchase all of Citics interest in the joint venture.
The price of such purchase or sale is to be the fair value of the shares to be transferred, as determined by the auditor.
99 Corporate governance report continued Information required to be disclosed in the directors report Information required to be disclosed in the directors report may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Page number s Business review Overview and 4-64 Operating and financial review Disclosure of information to auditor Corporate governance report 93 Directors in office during the year Corporate governance report 87-89 Principal activities Operating and financial review 25 Dividend recommended for the year Operating and financial review 35 Political and charitable donations and expenditure Corporate responsibility review 84 Financial instruments Operating and financial review 65 Post balance sheet events Corporate governance report 99 Future developments of the business of the Company Operating and financial review 26-64 Employment and employee involvement Corporate responsibility review 82-83 Creditors policy on payment and practice Corporate governance report 99 Structure of share capital, including restrictions on the Corporate governance report 97-98 transfer of securities, voting rights and significant shareholders Rules governing appointments of directors Corporate governance report 89 Rules governing changes to the articles of association Corporate governance report 97 Powers of directors generally and in relation to issuing Corporate governance report 89, 98 or buying back shares Significant agreements impacted by a change of control Corporate governance report 99 Agreements for compensation for loss of office Corporate governance report 99 or employment on takeover In addition, the risk factors set out on pages 336 to 339 are incorporated by reference into this directors report.
On behalf of the Board of directors Philip Broadley Group Finance Director 13 March 2008 100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report 102 Directors remuneration report 101
