Audit committee report Committee members The current members of the Audit Committee are the independent non-executive directors Giles Coode-Adams chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 December 2007 and Mark Robertshaw.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2007.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 42.
Role of the Committee The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually.
Its duties include the review of the adequacy of the accounting systems and financial control of the Group, the interim and full year financial statements, and the Groups accounting policies.
The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by a review of the work of the Group internal audit department, review of reports produced by the compliance functions, reviews of the half-year and annual financial statements, review of the scope and findings of the annual external audit, and periodic reviews with senior management.
The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis and the frequency of the reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding the rotation of audit partner or change of audit firm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality, and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is anticipated to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditors should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditors to provide certain non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditors has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 9 on page 80.
The Audit Committee also approves significant changes to the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act confidential reporting or whistle blowing policy.
During 2007, the Committee received presentations on Group information security policy, the financial risk management disclosures required by IFRS7 and on the activities of the VCT and EIS investment management team.
Presentations were received from the auditors on the 2006 audit progress and findings, and on their 2007 audit plans and interim findings.
A meeting was also held with the auditors with no management present to discuss the audit process and interface with management.
Members of the Committee visited our offices in Singapore, Jersey, Liverpool and London.
On invitation, the finance director, other executive directors, compliance officers, senior internal audit staff and the external auditors attend meetings to assist the Committee to fulfil its duties.
The Committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
53 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
