Nomination committee report Committee members Members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Giles Coode-Adams, Oliver Corbett, Andy Pomfret and Mark Robertshaw who all served on the Committee throughout 2007, and David Harrel who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 December 2007.
The Committee met formally on three occasions in 2007.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 42.
It also met informally on a number of occasions, particularly in connection with the arrangements for the chairman to become non-executive with effect from 1 January 2008 and as part of the director selection processes referred to below.
Role of the Committee The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new directors.
When considering possible candidates, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The Committee considered short-term cover arrangements in the finance team and the recruitment of a finance director in light of the serious illness and subsequent tragic death of Sue Desborough.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee recommended the appointment of David Harrel and John May as new non-executive directors to the Board.
A specialist non-executive search firm was used rather than open advertising.
Their appointments coincided with the departures from the Board of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Roy Morris.
The Committee was keen to maintain the balance of executive and non-executive directors, and was mindful of the need to ensure adequate succession planning for non-executive directors.
Non-executive committee members are exposed to senior management below board level during visits to Group offices, Audit Committee and strategy day presentations, and attendance at Rathbone Investment Management Limited board meetings.
The Committee also discussed the retirement and re-election of directors at the AGM.
All directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every three years.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a fixed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
The Committee are mindful of the Combined Code requirement that any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly vigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
