The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 52 Corporate governance The Group continues to be committed to the principles of corporate Board composition governance contained in the Combined Code the Code for which the The Directors acknowledge the need to segregate the responsibility for Board is accountable.
operating the Board from the management of the underlying business.
Consequently, the roles of Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters and The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 Chief Executive Paul Pindar are separated.
of the Combined Code except in respect of the independence of the Board.
The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Eric Walters: three Independence of the Board A.
3.2 Following the appointment of Eric further independent Non-Executive Directors, Peter Cawdron Senior Walters a Non-Executive Director ofThe Capita Group Plc since January Non-Executive Director, Martina King and Bill Grimsey: and four Executive 2001 as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 August 2006, the Board, excluding Directors: Paul Pindar, Chief Executive, Gordon Hurst, Group Finance the Chairman, consists of four Executive and three Non-Executive Directors Director and Company Secretary and Paddy Doyle and Simon Pilling, and as such does not fully comply with the Code regarding the balance of Joint Chief Operating Officers.
However, the Board believes that the current composition is in line with the principles of the Code as it is led by a Non-Executive Chairman Peter Cawdron will retire as Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2008 and its composition remains suitable for the nature and size of the Group.
and as part of the Boards orderly succession planning, Martin Bolland was We believe that the collective skills, experience and approach to running appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2008.
Martin Bolland was the business are appropriate for driving the Group forward and achieving the appointed following a formal and rigorous recruitment process.
We constantly review the composition of the Board to ensure considering Mr Bollands appointment, the Nomination Committee met, that it continues to meet the needs of the Group.
with Eric Walters chairing the proceedings, and Peter Cawdron took no part in the process.
One-on-one meetings were also undertaken with the Group The Boards Non-Executive Directors, Peter Cawdron, Eric Walters, Finance Director and Chief Executive.
Martina King and Bill Grimsey are regarded as independent and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere The Senior Non-Executive Director is available, as necessary, to lead meetings with their judgement.
of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors and or the Chairman being present and meets with shareholders to understand any The Code states that after nine years on the Board, non-executive directors concerns.
Biographies of the Directors can be found on page 50. cease to be independent.
Although he has served for over 10 years, the Board is satisfied that Peter Cawdron remains independent with strong financial Director induction and professional development skills and a good knowledge of the business and its sectors and continues to On joining the Board, all Directors receive an appropriate induction enhance the overall balance of the Board.
Peter Cawdron will retire as programme involving appropriate documentation, meetings and visits to Senior Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2008.
Capita businesses with other Directors, attendance at Divisional Board meetings and discussions with advisers and senior management from across Board responsibilities and effectiveness the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the direction of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
It is also All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment that relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various identifies and manages appropriately the risks associated with the business committees of the Board, at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary, as set out on pages 16, 2021 and 54.
Gordon Hurst, who is also Group Finance Director, is available to all Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Group Board procedures The Board demonstrates its commitment to the strategic direction and are complied with.
control of the Group by scheduling a series of meetings in the year.
It can meet as necessary outside of this schedule to consider any urgent matters The decision to combine the roles of Group Finance Director and Company that may arise.
It sets the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring Secretary was taken when Capita was a smaller entity and as the Group has sufficient financial and human resources are in place to meet those aims.
evolved this approach has been regularly reviewed and has proven to work The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its well.
Capita owns a company secretarial business that provides services to obligations to clients, employees, suppliers, the community and other key numerous private and quoted companies and a team from this business stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule directly supports Gordon Hurst in his role as Company Secretary.
of matters that can only be decided by the Board including the Groups During the year, the Directors received appropriate ongoing briefings and business strategy, annual budget, annual and half-yearly financial results, information, including updates on governance and regulatory issues, to dividends and major corporate activities.
The Board also considers regular enable them to perform their roles.
They also attended external courses reports from the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Joint Chief where appropriate.
The Board is provided with complete, timely and relevant information to ensure that informed judgements are made in Board performance evaluation pursuit of the Groups objectives.
A full Board performance evaluation was conducted in 2006 and during the The Board also reviews the performance of management in meeting year to 31 December 2007, the Board continued to review outcomes of that business objectives, plans the succession of key executives, and determines evaluation, which were positive.
A full Board appraisal will be conducted in appropriate remuneration levels through the Remuneration Committee, the year to 31 December 2008. a committee of the Board.
The operational management of the Group is The performance of individual Executive Directors is appraised annually by delegated to the Divisional Executive Board, which is comprised of the the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Chairman Group Executive Directors and five Divisional Executive Directors and meets is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by Peter Cawdron, taking on a monthly basis.
into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the constructively and independently the business development plans that are Non-Executive Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
proposed by executive management and monitor the performance of the Non-Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Non-Executive management teams in the delivery of agreed business objectives and targets.
Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman encourages and engages in an open dialogue with Non-Executive Directors in particular, who are at liberty to meet with Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors him as a group or individually as they feel fit, without the presence of Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles Executive Directors.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained.
of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Acts.
The Non-Executive Directors meet once a year without the Executive Directors present.
All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association.
Governance The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 No person other than a Director retiring at the meeting shall be appointed Remuneration Committee or re-appointed a Director of the Company at any general meeting unless Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the he she is recommended by the Directors.
Directors remuneration report on pages 5762.
No person other than a Director retiring at a general meeting as set out The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit above shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between seven and Committees were updated during the year to reflect changes in best 35 days notice, executed by a member qualified to vote on the appointment practice.
The terms of reference are displayed in the investor centre at or re-appointment, has been given to the Company of the intention to www.
co. uk investors propose that person for appointment or re-appointment, together with notice executed by that person of his her willingness to be appointed Board and committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance or re-appointed.
During 2007 the Board met nine times, excluding ad hoc meetings solely to deal with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the The Non-Executive Chairman and, where appropriate, the Non-Executive Remuneration Committee each met two and three times during the year, Directors have, following the evaluation process described above, considered respectively.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
the performance of Paddy Doyle and Martina King, who are subject to Attendance is recorded in the table below.
re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and is satisfied that they Nomination Remuneration Audit continue to be effective and demonstrate a clear commitment to the role.
Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Nomination Committee Scheduled meetings 92 3 4 The Nomination Committee comprised Eric Walters Chairman, Eric Walters 82 3 Peter Cawdron, Martina King and Bill Grimsey throughout the year.
The Committee reports to the Board and its duty is to seek suitably skilled Paul Pindar 8 and experienced candidates to be Non-Executive Directors and ensures Gordon Hurst 9 plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
Paddy Doyle 7 When considering the constitution of the Board, the Nomination Simon Pilling 8 Committee carries out a rigorous review, taking into account the need for Peter Cawdron 92 3 4 progressive refreshing of the Board.
Core competencies and attributes Martina King 92 3 4 required to fill the roles are set out and independent external search Bill Grimsey 92 3 4 consultants engaged, where appropriate, to identify potential candidates.
The Chairman of the Company will not take part in any discussions regarding Any Directors non-attendance at Board Meetings or meetings of the Audit, the consideration of the appointment of a new Chairman.
Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness or an absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the Audit Committee Chairman of the relevant committee.
The Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors throughout the year and was chaired by Peter Cawdron, who has significant and recent Dialogue with institutional shareholders relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee meetings are attended, by The Board encourages and seeks to build up a mutual understanding of invitation, by the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders.
As part of Director, Group Compliance Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance this process, the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and by representatives of the external auditors.
Director and Joint Chief Operating Officers make regular presentations and At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues of concern, to obtain feedback and to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All the reporting and related matters including the half year and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and understand their views more fully.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the any significant areas of judgement that materially impact reported results.
Senior Non-Executive Director are personally available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
It also monitored the internal controls that are operated by management to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external responsibility for managing shareholder communications and always acts in auditors, and it advised the Board on the appointment, independence and close consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting of the Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance objectivity of the external auditors and on their remuneration both for statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope Director ensure all appropriate communications are made to the London and timing of the statutory audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Shareholders can also access up-to-date Committee annually performs an independent assessment of the suitability information through the investor centre section of the Groups website.
A telephone helpline, 0871 664 0300, provides a contact point directly to and performance of the external auditors in making its recommendation to the Board for their re-appointment.
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the annual internal All members of the Board, including Non-Executive Directors, receive a audit programme and for ensuring that the business risk management report on any significant discussions with shareholders and the feedback that follows the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts and internal audit functions are adequately sponsored and resourced.
It also monitored the resourcing levels and performance of the Groups and shareholders is also circulated.
All brokers reports and analysts briefings compliance function.
At the meeting to review the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts, the The Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
Directors, including the chairmen of the various committees, are present Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by the Groups external auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and to answer any questions.
The Group uses the Annual General Meeting to independence of the external auditors was safeguarded.
There is a policy in communicate with private investors and encourages their participation.
place to monitor and approve the use of the auditors for non-audit services.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 6 on page 77.
The lead Social and environmental responsibility audit partner is rotated on a five yearly basis.
Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental responsibilities can be found on pages 3033.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 54 Corporate governance Internal control In addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the The Group Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Group compliance function reporting through the Group Finance Director and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Group compliance team, for, inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or in conjunction with dedicated compliance teams within the relevant disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of businesses, independently monitor regulatory compliance by way of financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a risk-based work programmes and support operations in identifying and system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part of the Group risk framework achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Both the Group compliance function and the Group risk and business absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is an assurance function routinely appraise the Groups senior management and ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key internal control.
The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include control procedures include the following: regular reports from the Divisional Executive Board, periodic updates from the Audit Committee based on its review of risk management, business The Divisional Executive Board has responsibility to set, communicate and assurance and compliance reports by the relevant Group functions: monitor the application of policies, procedures and standards in areas discussions with and reports from the external auditors and other advisers including operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, and periodic reports from relevant regulators.
human resources and health and safety, information security and property management and corporate social responsibility and the environment Based on the above, the Board has concluded that it is satisfied with the process of monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance Authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and in the Directors, within limits set by the Divisional Executive Board under powers revisedTurnbull Guidance 2005.
The Board and the Audit Committee have delegated by the Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, positions within the Group, other than Board appointments, requires the operational and compliance controls and risk management in accordance with approval of the Divisional Executive Board.
It establishes key operational, the Code for the period from 1 January 2007 to the date of approval of this functional and financial reporting standards for application across the Annual Report and Accounts.
No significant failings or weaknesses were whole Group.
These are supplemented by operating standards set by local identified during this review: however had there been, the Board confirms management teams, as required for the type of business and geographical that necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
location of each subsidiary and business unit Comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual Additional Information business unit level and summarised at the Divisional and Group level.
Group activities Financial plans are reviewed and approved by both the Divisional Executive The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a leading UK provider Board and the Board.
Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary of professional support services and business process outsourcing solutions control beyond specified levels and detailed written proposals have to organisations across the public and private sectors.
The Groups nine to be submitted to the Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject chosen markets are central government, local government, education, of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Board health, transport, life and pensions, insurance, financial services and other Results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive management corporate organisations.
accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce executive members of the Board on a Group-wide basis at the business costs of delivery and enable them to transform the way that they deliver unit level each month services to their customers.
The services that the Group provides are A framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business essential to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, information security, The Group designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes specific provision for solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, risk-based due diligence in respect of business acquisitions and new human resources, property and customer service functions.
Exposure to business risks is monitored as an integral maintains leading positions in its markets due to its ability to draw on its part of the monthly challenge to business results discussed above and by wide base of professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive the Audit Committee business process transformation and change management skills.
The Groups principal activities are managed through seven operating divisions The Group risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups comprising HR Solutions & Property Consultancy, Insurance & Specialist businesses, including all financial services related business streams, by a Services, Financial Services, ICT & Advisory Services, Life & Pensions, number of formally constituted local boards, which in turn are underpinned Professional Services and Integrated Services, plus the Group Sales and by dedicated risk committees.
These committees provide an appropriate Marketing Division.
Group support services report direct to Group Executive means to routinely monitor the risk profile of these businesses, including Directors.
A review of the development of the Group and its business regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to be challenged activities during the year is contained in the Business review on pages 0248. and tracked The Group risk management framework is monitored and developed as Profits and dividends required by the Group risk and business assurance function, in conjunction The Group profit before taxation and after amortisation amounted to with the Group compliance function, to ensure that it remains appropriate 228.7m 2006: 193.2m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of to business requirements and consistent with best practice 8.0p per share 2006: 6.3p per share to be paid on 9 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the Register on 28 March 2008.
This gives a total dividend The Group risk and business assurance function reports to the Group for the year of 12.0p per share 2006: 9.0p per share.
Additionally, a special Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
In addition dividend of 25p per share was paid in October 2007. to independently facilitating the Groups risk management framework, it delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance on Directors the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on page 50. business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest risk Paddy Doyle and Martina King will retire by rotation at the forthcoming to the Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
independent view of those risks is taken by the Group risk and business Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters other significant commitments are a assurance function partnership in Englefield Capital, a private equity firm, and non-executive directorships of a number of private companies.
None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than their contracts of employment and no Director has a service contract exceeding one year.
Governance The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Voting rights and share capital Disabled persons On 28 February 2008 the Company had received notifications that the It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for following were interested in 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to Companys ordinary share capital: participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled Percentage Nature of total shares of holding to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other positions in the Group.
Baille Gifford & Co 4.94 Indirect FMR LLC 4.78 Indirect Employee involvement Fidelity International Limited 3.93 Indirect The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance LloydsTSB Group Plc 3.93 Indirect and development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development Legal & General Group Plc 3.58 Direct offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal development.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive 1 At the date of this report, 609.3m ordinary shares of 2 15thp each have been range of key business and management skills courses and an annual issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of The Group encourages all its employees to participate fully in the business 18.1m new ordinary shares.
A further 0.3m new ordinary shares have been through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date Recap, the Groups newsletter, frequent email notices, internal notice of this report.
board statements, and Capita Online, a regular communication reviewing the performance of the Group from the perspective of the Directors.
The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own These communication initiatives enable employees to share information issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2007 and again within and between business units and employees are encouraged to at the Extraordinary General Meeting in September 2007.
During the year contribute news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong the Company acquired 6.6m 2006: 52.9m ordinary shares, representing communications network and employees are encouraged, through its 1% of the issued share capital see note 26 on page 93.
During the year open door policy, to discuss with management matters of interest to the 6.55m shares, representing 1% of the issued share capital, were cancelled employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
and the remaining 41,163 share are held in treasury.
The Group grants share options to senior employees, on a discretionary The Companys share capital was consolidated on 17 September 2007, basis, in order to reward their long term commitment to the Group.
The with every 31 existing ordinary shares replaced with 30 new ordinary shares.
granting of all share options is subject to the approval of the Remuneration The consolidation resulted in a reduction in the number of shares in issue by Committee.
The share option schemes have been a key factor in attracting, 19.96m shares.
retaining and motivating senior employees across the Group.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save AsYou Earn Scheme, Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both firmly entitled to participate in the payment of dividends pro rata to their holding.
established and are designed to promote employee share ownership and to The Board may propose and pay interim dividend and recommend a final give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success of the dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of the profits available for Group.
20% of the Groups eligible employees have share options or own distribution under English law.
A final dividend may be declared by the Capita shares.
shareholders in the general meeting by ordinary resolution, but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
In keeping with its belief that employees are the Groups most valuable asset, the Group operates an annual employee awards scheme, celebrating At any general meeting a resolution put to vote of the meeting shall be the core values that embody the organisation and rewarding employees decided on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the for service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community results of the show of the hands or on the withdrawal of any other demand and innovation.
for a poll a poll is properly demanded.
On a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company Further information on our employee initiatives can be found on pages 2729. shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Payment of suppliers The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with contract terms.
The Company had an average of 42 days purchases regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any 2006: 43 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Charitable and political donations Restrictions on transfer of shares During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.5m 2006: 0.5m.
The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute No political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups discretion refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which charitable donations and work within the community can be found on is not fully paid.
They may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in page 32. certificated form unless the instrumented form of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office of the Company or at such other place Financial instruments as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, unsecured loan recognised person where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the notes, bank loans, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and these is to raise funds for the Groups operations.
In addition various other such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise directly right of the transferor to make the transfer.
From time to time, the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk and form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted currency risk.
from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer: and they may refuse to register any such transfer in The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate favour of more than four transferees.
risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
The Group borrows in selected currencies at fixed and floating rates of Going concern interest and makes use of interest rate swaps to generate the desired The Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the interest profile and to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 56 Corporate governance In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between Change of control continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bonds, bank loans, All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy any performance conditions at that time.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that and other financial institutions.
The bonds issued by the Group contain a the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit change of control provision which requires prepayment of the full facility risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash amount in the event that a change of control occurs and the Groups credit and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial investments and certain rating falls below investment grade.
The Group currently has 461.1m of derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from bonds in issue.
The Group has a maximum exposure equal to There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, alter the carrying amount of the above receivables and instruments.
or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has investments in overseas operations which are affected by foreign exchange movements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk and auditors except in respect of its overseas operations in India which generate exposure Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial to movements in the INR GBP exchange rates.
The Group seeks to mitigate year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company the effect of this exposure by executing forward currency contracts to fix and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the GBP cost of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in INR.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: These forward currency contracts are designated as cash flow hedges Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently and it is the Groups policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged items in order to maximise hedge Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent effectiveness.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors Under the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Act 2004 which amends the Companies Act 1985, companies are under an presume that the Group will continue in business.
obligation to disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information directors.
The current Articles of Association of the Company contain an relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors indemnity in favour of the Directors of the Company which indemnifies are unaware them in respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from the Each of the Directors has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered office of expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information and to the Company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
available at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above before the meeting until it ends.
Auditors The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors will be disclose with reasonable accuracy at anytime the financial position of the put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and relationship with external auditors and the key safeguards are: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Group Risk and Business Assurance Director monitors the To the best of each Directors knowledge, the financial statements contained independence of the auditor as part of the Groups assessment of auditor within this Annual Report and Accounts give a true and fair view of the effectiveness and reports to the Audit Committee assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the The Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the external undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Audit fee against other comparable companies both within and without Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance its sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the The Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Details of the principal risks fees accruing to the external auditor, and specific assignments are and uncertainties can be found on page 21. discussed in advance with the external auditor and flagged for the approval of the Audit Committee as appropriate and in accordance with the Annual General Meeting Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by auditors.
The 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Deutsche The Audit Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB, on an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and on 6 May 2008.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be proposed.
independence of the relationship with the external auditor.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which was sent to Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts and includes notes selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is explaining the business to be transacted.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector customers granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 59.88m ordinary and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the shares.
This authority was renewed at the EGM in September 2007 and will award process for external audit assignments.
expire at the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Memorandum and the Articles of Association of the Company and to any directions given by special resolution, including the Companys power to repurchase its own shares.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
