40 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance This report sets out the Companys approach to corporate governance in The directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the 2007.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of Best aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group Practice set out in section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Corporate Governance the Combined Code and sets out the extent Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: of our compliance with the Code.
The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company Compliance with the Combined Code The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to Throughout 2007 the Group has complied with the Principles and certain adjustments.
Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not appointed a senior independent director.
The non-executive directors The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out as a formal schedule have a unanimous view that the appointment of a senior independent of matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the director is not appropriate at this time.
All non-executive directors are Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Matters reserved to the encouraged to communicate directly with executive directors and senior Board include: management outside of formal meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure The Board Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation of long term shareholder Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements value.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for organising and Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets directing the affairs of the Company and the Group in a manner that Changes to the Groups capital structure will promote the success of the Company and is consistent with good Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes to corporate governance practice, and for ensuring that in carrying out accounting practices or policies.
its duties the Company and the Group meet legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors, who may exercise all the power of the Company subject to the Articles of Association the Articles, relevant law and any directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting by shareholder resolution.
The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions to committees.
A director must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal in which he or any person connected with him has a material interest otherwise than by virtue of his interests in securities of the Company.
However, a director shall be entitled to vote in certain limited circumstances which are set out in full in the Articles.
Amendments are being proposed to the Articles at the 2008 AGM regarding directors conflicts of interest in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Further details are set out in the notice of AGM.
Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 41 The Board met 13 times during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Board Group Audit Nomination Remuneration Investment Board Risk Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 1 13 6 7 4 5 2 5 George Culmer 13 6 2 5 Noel Harwerth 12 6 2 Andy Haste 13 6 2 5 Edward Lea 11 7 5 2 Simon Lee 2 12 Malcolm Le May 11 4 2 John Maxwell 13 6 4 5 2 Bridget McIntyre 13 John Napier 13 4 2 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes 1.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and George Culmer regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee GAC and Andy Haste regularly attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Simon Lee agreed not to attend the Board meeting on 21 May 2007 due to the business of the meeting creating a potential conflict with his interests as a director of Codan A S. Board balance and independence Nomination Committee Details of the directors who served during the year can be found on During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by John page 34.
The other member of the Committee was John Maxwell.
Malcolm Le May was appointed to the Committee on 19 December At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the 2007.
The attendance record of directors during 2007 is shown in the Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
The Committee met four times during 2007. directors have been determined by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both The Nomination Committees principal duties are to review the individually and collectively without the executive directors being structure, size and composition of the Board and to evaluate the present.
The Chairman met the independence criteria of the directors skills, knowledge and experience.
When appointing new Combined Code on his appointment in 2003 and continues to meet directors, regard is given to the size of the Board and the balance of the criteria set out in the Code.
There have been no changes to his executive and non-executive directors as well as the skills and external commitments since then which might affect his responsibilities experience already represented by the existing Board members, to the Group.
None of the executive directors serve on the board of and those which would be desirable on the Board going forward.
The Committee has access to external recruitment consultants in order to help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the Directors have access to the services and advice of the General leadership needs and succession planning of the Board when making Counsel and Group Company Secretary and in addition may take decisions on new appointments.
Resolutions to re-appoint directors at independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, taking into account furtherance of their duties.
the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Appointments to the Board The directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to be a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director.
A director who is appointed by the directors shall retire at the following AGM and will put himself forward to be elected by the shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles and the Combined Code, the directors submit themselves for reappointment at the first AGM after their appointment and for re-election every three years thereafter.
There are no directors retiring by rotation at the 2008 AGM.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
42 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Induction and professional development reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and Directors undertake an induction programme and will receive a range of detect fraud and other irregularities.
information about the Company when they join the Board.
This includes background information on the Group and details of board procedures, The directors must present financial statements for each financial year, governance issues and directors responsibilities.
The induction in accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and regulations, programme also includes a series of meetings with members of the which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of Board and various briefings and presentations regarding the business the profit or loss and cashflows for that period.
Financial statements for from executives.
the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Development and training for the directors is an ongoing process which Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
includes briefings on legislative changes and on corporate governance issues.
Directors also receive regular presentations about the Companys In preparing such financial statements the directors are required to: operations and there are regular discussions on strategy, customer marketing and employee satisfaction.
Opportunity is also created for Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent basis non-executive directors to make informal visits to different parts of the using reasonable and prudent judgement Group and to meet with local management.
State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been followed and explain any material departures Performance evaluation State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in In 2007 the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance accordance with IFRS to assess how well the Board, its committees and the directors were Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The review included the use of a comprehensive questionnaire.
Responses from the questionnaire were collated and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above subsequently discussed by the Board.
Strong positive feedback on requirements in preparing the financial statements.
the workings of the Board was received and potential improvements identified through the evaluation process will be implemented.
Internal control The non-executive directors are responsible for the evaluation of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control Chairmans performance and take into account the views of the executive systems and for monitoring effectiveness.
Implementation and directors in their evaluation.
As part of the ongoing performance maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the evaluation process the Chairman has regular one to one meetings executive directors and senior management.
The performance of with all the non-executive directors.
internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Group Audit Committee GAC.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, with The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups systems of responsibilities clearly divided between them.
This separation of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders responsibilities is formalised in role statements which have been approved investment.
This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk by the Board.
management framework and operational, regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as necessary the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide with the Group CEO on developments between Board meetings and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial ensuring that both the Group CEO and his executive management team misstatement or loss.
Following the review of the internal control systems, have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those the Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary to rectify any objectives is reviewed.
The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for significant failings or weaknesses identified as a result of the review have the executive management of the Group and for liaising with the been, or are being, taken.
Chairman and keeping him informed on all material matters.
The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Director, Remuneration Audit, Risk and Compliance and his team on the integrity of the control Details of the directors remuneration and the Groups policies on environment and also receives reports from the external auditors based remuneration are set out in the remuneration report on pages 45 to 56. upon their audit work.
The GAC also receives reports on the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Board, through the Financial reporting Board Risk Committee BRC, considers reports from risk specialists The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records both internal and external to the Group, and reviews Group level risk are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, management information.
the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 43 Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business External auditors managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and their During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP were, on a number of occasions, compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed by The Board considers that the current reporting framework delivers the GAC.
This gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the sufficient information to monitor the systems of internal control and to appropriateness of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
The Board sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise such an therefore considers that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and engagement.
The GAC is satisfied that this protocol has been followed managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place during and there are no matters that would compromise the independence of 2007 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory duties.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
The Board has accepted the GACs recommendation that a resolution be put to the 2008 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Further detail on the overall risk framework is set out on pages 27 to 29. external auditors.
Group Audit Committee It is the GACs responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in the Group The GAC is chaired by Edward Lea who has been Chairman of the whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with employees who Committee since October 2003.
The other members of the Committee wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either do not feel are Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell.
In 2007, the Committee met seven comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied times.
The attendance record of directors in 2007 is shown in the table on with the local management response.
They can raise their concerns with page 41.
The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance, who will either directors who have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group investigate or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Group Director, Enterprise Risk offered such safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their Management and the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance are personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
The Chairman and other members of executive management are also invited to attend from time to time.
The outcomes Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group include: of meetings are reported to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all GAC meetings.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and The GACs principal duties are as follows: effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial resource is given to the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance reporting process and for approving the appointment to, and removal of the holder from, that position.
To monitor compliance To have oversight of internal and external audit functions The Board Risk Committee To manage the systems of internal controls The BRC, which meets at least quarterly, is chaired by George Culmer, To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The BRC also comprises the Group CEO and other members of executive management.
The Committee is authorised To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups by the Board under its terms of reference to manage all risks faced by the risk management.
The Board approved Group risk appetite is set by reference to policies, control limits and other mechanisms.
The Committees principal The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and duties include: information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
Defining the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board The GAC meets regularly with internal and external auditors without Approval of policy and minimum standards that are consistent with the management present.
The partner of the Groups external auditors, who risk appetite is responsible for the external audit, attends meetings regularly.
Each year, Ensuring that risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an the GAC considers the performance of the external auditors prior to a appropriate manner resolution on their reappointment and remuneration at the AGM.
Overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
44 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Investment Committee chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May, meets twice a Committees make themselves available to take questions from year and comprises all of the non-executive directors, the Group CEO shareholders at and after the AGM.
and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee assists the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy and monitors the execution of Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any that strategy and the Groups investment performance.
general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for Financial control framework holding the meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on In 2006 the Company voluntarily delisted from the New York Stock the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time Exchange and terminated its American Depository Receipt ADR appointed for the taking of the poll.
In January 2007 the Company suspended its US SEC registration and its reporting obligations to the SEC also ceased at that At any general meeting every shareholder present shall have one vote on time.
The registration was permanently terminated on 31 December a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by 2007.
As a result of the SEC deregistration, the Company is no longer proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
In the required to be compliant with the US Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002. case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the However, the elements of Sarbanes Oxley compliance which have chairman of the meeting shall be entitled to a casting vote.
All resolutions added value have been carried forward in the Groups financial were put to a poll at the AGM in 2007.
Voting at the AGM is conducted control framework.
electronically, with the results being announced to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Corporate governance framework The Groups corporate governance framework describes and prescribes By order of the Board how the Group is directed and managed by setting out the matters Mark R Chambers reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board and General Counsel and Group Company Secretary management committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures 26 February 2008 and controls.
The terms of reference for key committees of the Board explaining their role and the authority delegated to them are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Delegated authorities The Group operates a Delegated Authority Policy which specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and on to other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences set out specific limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within their area of responsibility.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis and small shareholder groups on request and non-executive directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders as required.
In addition, investor relations events are held during the year to increase shareholders understanding of the business.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM.
The AGM Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and contains separate resolutions on each substantive issue including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
All directors are requested to attend each AGM.
