Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
In governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its addition, following the listing of ADS representing common activities.
shares on the NYSE, an interim written affirmation was required and was filed in October 2007.
More detailed information about Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the company the Audit Committee and its work during 2007 is set out in the has complied with all of the provisions of the revised Audit Committees Report on pages 103 and 104.
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code except in relation to the authority Board of directors reserved to the Board to make the final determination of the The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the remuneration of the executive directors, which is explained in company.
It has overall responsibility for leading and the paragraph headed Remuneration Committee.
controlling the company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board approves The company has also complied with the Smith Guidance on Group strategy and monitors performance.
The Board has Audit Committees in all material respects.
adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved to it for its decision.
This Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act, specific schedule is reviewed annually.
standards of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are the US.
The company complies with all applicable sections of distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and The New York Stock Exchange executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has As a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares ADS responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt with the authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the development of policy and strategy and operational company must disclose any significant ways in which its management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive and corporate governance practices differ from those followed by other executive directors.
US companies under the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards.
In addition, the company must comply fully with the All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance provisions of the listing standards that relate to the and the financial and risk management of the company.
composition, responsibilities and operation of audit Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
These provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the US Securities Exchange There were nine scheduled Board meetings during 2007.
The Act of 1934. directors were supplied with comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting covering the Groups principal The company has reviewed its corporate governance business activities.
Members of executive management attend arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the and make regular presentations at meetings of the Board.
In NYSEs corporate governance listing practices, with the addition to scheduled meetings, 20 ad hoc Board meetings exception of the following.
The Nominations Committee is and Chairmans Committee meetings were held during 2007 to chaired by the Chairman of the Board, who may not be consider the acquisition of ABN AMRO.
These meetings were currently considered independent under the UK Combined attended by the majority of directors.
Code, and the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Remuneration Committee, both of which are permitted by the The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors UK Combined Code since the Chairman was considered and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as independent on appointment.
The companys Audit, directors of the company.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Board balance and independence Board to be independent.
The NYSEs corporate governance The Board currently comprises the Chairman, six executive listing standards also require that a compensation committee directors and ten non-executive directors with effect from 1 has direct responsibility to review and approve Group Chief May 2008, and the change in role of Larry Fish to nonExecutive remuneration.
The Board, rather than the executive director of the company, the Board will comprise the Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the Chairman, five executive directors and eleven non-executive final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief directors.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently, and is Executive, which is explained on page 101 in the paragraph considered to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of headed Remuneration Committee.
the company and the diversity of its businesses.
The directors provide the Group with the knowledge, mix of skills, The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the experience and networks of contacts required.
The Board NYSEs corporate governance listing standards that relate to Committees contain directors with a variety of relevant skills the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit and experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any committees.
In May 2007, the company submitted its required individual.
annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 99 Governance Corporate governance continued The non-executive directors combine broad business and Performance evaluation commercial experience with independent and objective The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous annual judgement.
The balance between non-executive and executive evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective and individual directors.
leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the companys business activities.
The names and The performance evaluation of the operation and effectiveness biographies of all Board members are set out on pages 92 of the Board, the Remuneration Committee and the and 93.
Nominations Committee was undertaken in the autumn of 2007.
This was conducted internally using a detailed The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review questionnaire and individual meetings with each director.
and the provisions of the Code will be taken into account in Amongst the areas reviewed were the role of the Board, Board respect of the balance of the Board.
The Code requires the composition, Board meetings and processes, Board Board to determine whether its non-executive members are performance and reporting, external relationships and Board independent.
A separate performance evaluation of the Audit Committee was also undertaken internally in late 2007 using a The Board comprises nine independent and seven detailed questionnaire and meetings with Audit Committee non-independent directors including executive directors, in members and attendees.
Bob Scott has been nominated as the senior independent director.
The report on the Board evaluation, which was designed to assist the Board in further improving its performance, was The Board considers that all non-executive directors are considered and discussed by the Board as a whole and a independent for the purposes of the Code, with the exception separate report on the outcomes of the evaluation of the Audit of Bud Koch who was formerly Chairman, President and Chief Committee was also considered and discussed by the Board.
Executive Officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. which was The Board evaluation involved detailed consideration of Board acquired by Citizens Financial Group, Inc. in 2004.
Larry Fish composition, Board engagement in risk management and will not be considered an independent non-executive director capital planning and the format of the Board meetings.
Board also considered the range and balance of its activities and was content that it was allocating appropriate time to such Re-election of directors key matters as monitoring business performance, risk appetite At each Annual General Meeting, one third of the directors and strategy.
retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Taking into account their review and discussions the directors non-executive directors who have served for more than nine have concluded that the Board is effective in meeting its years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board will objectives and fulfilling its duties and obligations.
The directors consider their independence at that time.
The proposed are also satisfied that each of the Boards Committees Audit, re-election of directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
Remuneration and Nominations carries out its delegated duties effectively.
The names of directors standing for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are contained on page 97 and further In addition, each director discussed his or her own information will be given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders performance as a director and their Board evaluation in relation to the companys Annual General Meeting.
The senior independent director canvassed the views of the executive directors and Information, induction and professional development met with the non-executive directors as a group without the All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on Chairman present to consider the Chairmans performance.
All directors have access to the advice and The Board is satisfied that each director continues to services of the Group Secretary and General Counsel who is contribute effectively to the Board and the Group and responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures demonstrates commitment to his or her role as a director.
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, Board Committees to obtain independent professional advice at the companys In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the expense.
Board has established a number of Board Committees with particular responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the membership are reviewed on a regular basis.
The names and Board, including visits to the Groups major businesses and biographies of all Board Committee members are set out on meetings with directors and senior management.
The induction pages 92 and 93. is tailored to the directors specific requirements.
Directors are advised of appropriate training and professional development The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and opportunities and undertake the training and professional Nominations Committees and the standard terms and development they consider necessary in assisting them to conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are carry out their duties as a director.
available on the Groups website www.
com and copies are available on request.
100 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Audit Committee Meetings All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonThe number of scheduled meetings of the Board and the executive directors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and meetings each year.
The Audit Committees report is set out individual attendance by members is shown below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Total number of meetings Remuneration Committee in 2007 9 6 3 2 The members of the Remuneration Committee comprise independent non-executive directors, together with the Number of meetings Chairman of the Board.
The Remuneration Committee holds attended in 2007 at least three meetings each year.
Sir Tom McKillop 9 3 2 Sir Fred Goodwin 9 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and making all relevant Mr Buchan 8 6 3 disclosures in relation to the formulation and review of the Mr Cameron 8 Groups executive remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Dr Currie 9 3 remuneration arrangements for the executive directors and the Mr Fish 9 Chairman.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained Mr Fisher 9 on pages 105 to 114.
Mr Friedrich 9 6 Responsibility for determining the remuneration of executive Mr Hunter 9 6 2 directors has not been delegated to the Remuneration Mr Koch 9 Committee, and in that respect the provisions of the Code have not been complied with.
The Board as a whole reserves the Mrs Kong 9 3 authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of Mr MacHale 9 6 directors as it considers that this two stage process allows Mr Pell 9 greater consideration and evaluation and is consistent with the unitary nature of the Board.
No director is involved in decisions Sir Steve Robson 9 5 regarding his or her own remuneration.
Mr Scott 9 3 2 Nominations Committee Mr Sutherland 8 3 1 The Nominations Committee comprises independent nonMr Whittaker 9 executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
Relations with shareholders The company communicates with shareholders through the The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Annual Report and by providing information in advance of the Board in the formal selection and appointment of directors.
Individual shareholders can raise considers potential candidates and recommends appointments matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the of new directors to the Board.
The appointments are based on Group at any time throughout the year.
Shareholders are given merit against objective criteria, including the time available of the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting the potential director and the commitment which will be or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of the required.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the Nominations Committee considers succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonCommunication with the companys largest institutional executive directors.
The Nominations Committee takes into shareholders is undertaken as part of the companys investor account the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks relations programme.
The Chairman meets with the Groups of contacts which are anticipated to be needed on the Board top 20 investors once every 12 to 18 months to receive their in the future.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and feedback on issues such as strategy, business performance non-executive directors meet to consider executive succession and corporate governance.
During the year, the directors planning.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or received copies of analysts reports and a monthly report from her own succession.
the Groups investor relations department which includes an analysis of share price movements, the Groups performance against the sector, and key broker comments.
In addition, information on major investor relations activities and changes to external ratings is provided.
The senior independent director would be available to shareholders if concerns could not be addressed through the normal channels.
The arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders are considered as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 101 Governance Corporate governance continued The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Internal Control over Financial Reporting and, if appropriate, the senior independent director The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US communicate shareholder views to the Board as a whole.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December The Board commissions a survey of investor perceptions 2007. periodically.
The survey is undertaken on behalf of the Board by independent consultants and the outcomes of the study are The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control considered by the Board.
over financial reporting as of 31 December 2007 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Internal control of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system Framework.
of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and Management has excluded from its assessment the internal external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and control over financial reporting of ABN AMRO Holdings N. V. regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard which was acquired on 17 October 2007.
ABN AMRO to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it Holdings N. V. represented 40.7% of the Groups total assets, a crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal negligible proportion of the shareholders total equity, 7.7% of control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of the Groups total income and 0.2% of the Groups profit after failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide tax as of and for the year ended 31 December 2007. reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2007, the Groups internal control over The Board has established a process for the identification, financial reporting is effective.
evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended The Groups auditors have audited the effectiveness of the 31 December 2007 and to 27 February 2008, the date the Groups internal control over financial reporting and have given directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This process an unqualified opinion.
is regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Managements report on the Groups internal control over Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by financial reporting will be filed with the SEC at the same time the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. as the Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is Disclosure controls and procedures reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the Executive management committees or boards of directors in companys disclosure controls and procedures as defined in each of the Groups businesses receive regular reports on the rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 have significant risks facing their business and how they are being been evaluated.
This evaluation has been considered and controlled.
In addition, the Group Board receives monthly risk approved by the Board which has instructed the Group Chief management reporting.
Additional details of the Groups Executive and the Group Finance Director to certify that, as at approach to risk management are given in the Risk 31 December 2007, the companys disclosure controls and management section of the Business review on pages 70 to procedures were adequate and effective and designed to 90.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from ensure that material information relating to the company and its RBS Risk Management and Group Internal Audit.
In addition, consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by the Groups independent auditors present to the Audit others within those entities.
Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system Changes in internal controls of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other There was no change in the companys internal control over regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and to materially affect, the companys internal control over regulation section on pages 231 to 233. financial reporting.
102 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement The members of the Audit Committee are Archie Hunter of the external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, Chairman, Colin Buchan, Bill Friedrich, Joe MacHale and Sir which takes into account relevant legislation regarding the Steve Robson.
All members of the Audit Committee are provision of such services by an external audit firm.
The Audit independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee Committee reviews the policy annually and prospectively holds at least five meetings each year, two of which are held approves the provision of audit services and certain non-audit immediately prior to submission of the interim and annual services by the external auditors.
financial statements to the Group Board.
This core programme is supplemented by additional meetings as required, four Annual audit services include all services detailed in the being added in 2007.
Audit Committee meetings are attended annual engagement letter including the annual audit and by relevant executive directors, the internal and external interim reviews including US reporting requirements, periodic auditors and finance and risk management executives.
At least profit verifications and reports to regulators including skilled twice per annum the Audit Committee meets privately with the persons reports commissioned by the Financial Services external auditors.
Since 2000, the Audit Committee has Authority e. g. Reporting Accountants Reports.
undertaken an annual programme of visits to the Group's business divisions and control functions.
The object of the Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory programme is to allow the Audit Committee to gain a better audits required by any Group companies that are not understanding of the risk and control issues facing the Group incorporated in the UK.
Terms of engagement for these audits and an invitation to attend is extended to all non-executive are agreed separately with management, and are consistent directors.
The programme of future visits is considered with those set out in the audit engagement letter, as local annually and the norm is for three or four visits to be regulations permit.
The prospectively approved non-audit services include the The Board is satisfied that all the Audit Committee members following classes of service: have recent and relevant financial experience.
Although the Board has determined that each member of the Audit capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert and is relevant reviews of registration statements: independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related guidance, the provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to statements of the Group: the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the Board as a provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an must be rendered by the external auditors: Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any such director, any duties, obligations or liability that are greater tax compliance services: than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in corporate finance services relative to companies that will the absence of such a designation.
Nor does the designation remain outside the Group: and of a director as an Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member insolvency work relating to the Groups customers.
The Audit Committee approves all other permitted non-audit The Audit Committee is responsible for: services on a case by case basis before their commencement.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and monitors the assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and independence and objectivity of the external auditors when it in making all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial approves non-audit work to be carried out by them, taking into affairs of the Group: consideration relevant legislation and ethical guidance.
Information on the audit and non-audit services carried out by reviewing accounting and financial reporting and the external auditors is detailed in Note 4 to the Groups regulatory compliance: accounts.
reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: and monitoring the Groups processes for internal audit, risk management and external audit.
Full details of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee are available at www.
com RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 103 Governance Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess It is intended that there will be an external review of the the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and effectiveness of the Audit Committee every three to five years, the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the intervening relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
 conducted an external review of this evaluation are reported to the Board.
of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee in 2005.
An internal review of the Audit Committees performance was The Audit Committee is responsible for making undertaken in 2007 and a separate report on the outcome was recommendations to the Board, for it to submit the Audit considered and discussed by the Board which concluded that Committees recommendations to shareholders for their it effectively discharged its responsibilities.
approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Since 2005, divisional audit committees have been responsible auditors.
The Board has endorsed the Audit Committees for reviewing each divisions business.
These committees recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve report to the Audit Committee which has concluded that they the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as external operate effectively.
auditors at the Annual General Meeting in April 2008.
The Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the external auditors as authorised by shareholders at the Annual Archie Hunter General Meeting.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2008 The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the external auditors.
It is intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit every three to five years, in line with best practice, with internal reviews continuing in the intervening years.
In 2007, KPMG conducted a review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit and concluded that the function operated effectively.
The Board considered the external review findings and also concluded that the Group Internal Audit function was effective.
104 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance
