Corporate governance report This section of our Annual Report sets out our The Groups strategy: Time commitment The Board is satisfied approach to corporate governance in 2007.
In Major acquisitions and disposals: that the Chairman and each of the nonit you will find information on the Board, how it Significant new business activities: executive Directors committed sufficient operated, how it delegated its responsibilities The Annual Report and Accounts and time during 2007 to the fulfilment of their to the Executive team and to the Board other financial statements: duties as Directors of the Company.
None of Committees, how those Committees The annual budget: and the non-executive Directors has any conflict discharged their responsibilities and how The issue and repurchase of the of interest which has not been disclosed to we evaluated the effectiveness of the Board, Companys shares.
the Board in accordance with the the Committees and the Directors.
It also sets Companys Articles of Association.
out how we engaged with our shareholders The composition of the Board External non-executive directorships The and how we approached our corporate and There are currently 12 Directors.
In addition Board believes, in principle, in the benefit social responsibilities.
to the Chairman, there are four executive of executive Directors and other employees Directors and seven non-executive Directors, accepting non-executive directorships of Corporate governance review 2007 of which five are considered by the Board to other companies in order to widen their This section explains our overall approach to be independent.
Biographical details of the skills and knowledge for the benefit of the corporate governance, how we have applied Directors can be found on pages 20 and 21.
The Board has adopted a policy the principles of the 2006 Combined Code There were no changes to the composition on external appointments, which is on Corporate Governance the Code, the of the Board during the year.
designed to ensure that employees remain extent to which we have complied with the able to discharge their responsibilities to the The Chairman is Michael Miles.
He is Codes provisions and an explanation of the Group.
Directors and employees are usually responsible for leading the Board.
His other one area where we have not complied.
permitted to retain any fees paid in respect responsibilities are to ensure the effectiveness of such appointments.
Under the policy, As one of the UKs largest asset managers, of the Board, monitor and evaluate the corporate governance is very important to executive Directors may not take on more performance of the Chief Executive and us.
We are committed to business integrity, than one non-executive directorship of a ensure there is appropriate dialogue with high ethical values and professionalism FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship our shareholders.
The Board of of such a company.
None of the executive The Chief Executive is Michael Dobson.
He Schroders plc supports the highest Directors currently holds a directorship of is responsible for the executive management standards of corporate governance.
of the business of the Company and its In 2004 the Board adopted the Schroders To avoid potential conflicts of interest, subsidiaries.
This includes recommending Governance Guidelines.
These Guidelines non-executive Directors are expected to to the Board the Groups strategy for building form the basis for how the Board and the inform the Chairman before taking up any shareholder value over the long-term Committees operate, what is expected of additional external appointments.
Directors and how they discharge their Board meetings The Board held five meetings The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive duties.
During 2007 the Board reviewed and during 2007, including a two-day off-site are totally separate and each has a written updated these Guidelines and the Groups meeting which considered the Groups job description setting out their respective other core governance documents, including strategy.
The Board has a two-year rolling responsibilities.
Both job descriptions were the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the plan of items for discussion, agreed between reviewed and updated in 2007.
Board and the terms of reference of the the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
This principal Board Committees, to ensure that The Senior Independent Director is Sir Peter plan is reviewed and adapted regularly to they remained appropriate for Schroders Job.
He is available to shareholders if they ensure that all of the matters reserved to taking into account current best practice.
have concerns which have not or cannot the Board, as well as other key issues, are The Guidelines, and all the other documents be resolved through discussion with the discussed at the appropriate time.
At each mentioned in this report, are available on the Chairman or the executive Directors.
Board meeting the Chief Executive provided website at www.
com or from the Sir Peter also chairs meetings of the a review of the business and how it was Company Secretary.
non-executive Directors at which the performing and the Chief Financial Officer performance of the Chairman is reviewed.
provided a detailed review of the Groups The role of the Board financial position.
In 2007 the range of The non-executive Directors The Board The Board is accountable to shareholders subjects discussed included: considers that Andrew Beeson, Luc for the creation and delivery of strong, Bertrand, Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther and sustainable financial performance and longThe strategic development of the Group, Kevin Parry are independent non-executive term shareholder value.
The Board achieves including its people strategy.
None of the factors implying a this through a combination of deciding on The Groups financial results: lack of independence, as set out in the issues itself, delegating responsibility to Board The budget for 2008: Code, applies.
George Mallinckrodt and Committees and delegating authority to the The level of dividend and the use of the Bruno Schroder are also non-executive Chief Executive.
Certain matters can only be Groups capital: Directors, but do not meet the test of decided by the Board.
These are contained Our regional businesses in Asia, Europe independence in the Code.
However, the in the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the and the Americas: Board considers that both of them bring Board and include consideration and Our key business areas including valuable experience to Board deliberations approval of such matters as: Investment, Distribution, Private Equity and that at all times they act in the best and Private Banking: interests of the Company.
Our IT and operational platform: Possible acquisitions and the review of the acquisitions of NewFinance Capital and Aareal Asset Management: and Regulatory and governance issues.
Corporate governance report 24 25 Attendance at the Board meetings is set out Chairmans Committee Meetings of the Board effectiveness in the table below: Chairman and non-executive Directors, Evaluation The Board, led by the Chairman, usually without the executive Directors reviewed during the year the effectiveness present, are held prior to most scheduled Maximum Meetings of the Board and the principal Board possible attended Board meetings.
The Board considered attendance were held in 2007 and matters discussed alternative evaluation methods and agreed Michael Miles 5 5 included the evaluation of the Board, the that internal evaluation using a SchrodersJonathan Asquith 5 5 performance of the Chairman and the Chief specific questionnaire complemented by Andrew Beeson 5 4 Executive, senior management succession interviews between the Chairman and and investment performance.
The Chief Luc Bertrand 5 5 individual Directors where required was Executive attended two meetings at the appropriate.
The performance of the Board Alan Brown 5 5 invitation of the Chairman.
Committees and individual Directors was Michael Dobson 5 5 considered as part of this evaluation process.
Sir Peter Job 5 5 Delegated authorities The Board has a The responses to the questionnaires were Merlyn Lowther 5 5 formal schedule of matters reserved to it, analysed and discussed with the Chairman.
subject to which authority to manage the George Mallinckrodt 5 4 A report was prepared on the findings of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive.
Kevin Parry 5 5 evaluation process and this was considered He in turn delegates authority to the senior Bruno Schroder 5 5 by the whole Board at the Board meeting in executive team which meets as the Group Massimo Tosato 5 4 February 2008.
This is chaired by the Chief Executive and generally meets The performance of the Chief Executive was Information to the Board Before each Board twice each month to oversee the strategic considered by the Chairmans Committee meeting Directors received comprehensive management of the Groups business.
against his objectives agreed with the papers and reports on the issues to be The current members and their areas Chairman for the year.
The outcome discussed at the meeting.
Senior executives of responsibility are set out below: was discussed by the Chairman with below Board level also attended meetings the Chief Executive.
to make presentations on their areas of Michael Dobson Chief Executive responsibility.
This gave the Board the The Chairmans Committee, led by Sir Peter opportunity to have direct access to a Jonathan Asquith Vice Chairman and Head of Job in his role as Senior Independent Director, Fixed Income, Property and broader group of executives below Board also assessed the performance of the Corporate Development level.
In addition to Board papers, Directors Chairman with input from the whole Board.
Stephen Brooks Chief Financial Officer are provided with relevant information Sir Peter discussed with the Chairman the Alan Brown Chief Investment Officer between meetings.
This included outcome of this review.
Jamie Dorrien-Smith Head of Americas information on management changes, Induction All new Directors undertake an analysts commentaries on the Company, Lester Gray Head of Asia Pacific induction programme on joining the Board.
our competitors and the asset management Ken Lambden Head of Equities The aim of this programme is to introduce industry generally.
Directors were also sent Philip Mallinckrodt Head of Private Banking new Directors to the Groups business, its copies of the minutes of the Group Markus Ruetimann Head of Operations and IT operations and its governance arrangements.
Massimo Tosato Vice Chairman and Head The induction programme includes meetings of Distribution Support to the Board The Board Secretary with senior management, visits to offices, John Troiano Head of Global Institutional is responsible for advising and supporting presentations on key business areas and Business the Chairman and the Board on corporate relevant documentation.
The Board receives Howard Trust Group General Counsel governance matters.
Directors have presentations on business and functional access through the Board Secretary areas, new business and strategic The Board delegates certain of its to independent professional advice at developments, changes to the regulatory responsibilities to its Remuneration the Companys expense.
environment and the impact of specific Committee, Nominations Committee and issues, such as the implications of the Insurance and indemnities The Company Audit Committee.
Summaries of the terms of new Companies Act.
maintains appropriate Directors and reference of these Committees are set out on Officers liability insurance.
pages 27, 38 and 39 respectively, together with reports on the Committees activities At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, during the year.
The Chairmen of the Audit, shareholders authorised the Company to Remuneration and Nominations Committees provide indemnities to Directors in certain reported to the Board on the matters circumstances and to fund a Directors considered, and any significant issues that defence costs.
Following the 2007 Annual had arisen, at the next Board meeting after General Meeting the Company granted the Committees had met.
Meetings of the specific deeds of indemnity to each of Nominations Committee were held after the the Directors.
conclusion of scheduled Board meetings.
All Directors received copies of the minutes of all Committee meetings.
Corporate governance report In order to keep the Board informed of the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Shareholder relations wider developments within the business Committees.
The Chief Executive provided Ongoing communication across the and on general issues affecting their role shareholders at the meeting in April 2007 Companys shareholder base, including as Directors, a series of specific briefing with a review of the Groups business in 2006. institutional investors and private and sessions were held outside of Board employee shareholders, is achieved mainly The Annual Report and Accounts and the meetings.
These were open to all Directors.
through the publication of the annual and notice of meeting are sent to shareholders at One of the principal objectives was to interim reports and quarterly trading least 20 working days prior to the date of the ensure that there was consistency of updates, the announcement of significant Annual General Meeting.
knowledge on the issues considered.
The developments affecting the Group and the Board held three briefing sessions in 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and Compliance with code provisions and the topics covered included the use investor information, including webcasts The Company complied with all of the of derivatives within the business and the of the presentations of the interim and final provisions of section 1 of the Code management of associated risks, the results made by the Chief Executive and throughout the year except for one.
Neither Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Chief Financial Officer, can be found at Bruno Schroder nor George Mallinckrodt are Process and product development.
considered independent under the provisions be continuing with these briefings in 2008.
The Board as a whole is responsible for of the Code.
Consequently, less than half ensuring that dialogue with shareholders of the Board excluding the Chairman takes place.
During the year the Chief comprised independent non-executive Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and Directors.
Bruno Schroder is a representative other senior executives conducted a series of the principal shareholder group and the of meetings with and presentations to Board considers that it is appropriate for this institutional investors, analysts and group to be represented on the Board.
The prospective shareholders to review the Board considers that George Mallinckrodts Groups strategy and prospects and to business and international experience are discuss corporate governance matters.
of great value to the Board.
Over 30 such meetings were held in 2007.
The Chairman is also available to meet institutional shareholders, as is the Senior Michael Miles Independent Director.
Feedback from Chairman shareholders is available to the Board 10 March 2008 from the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to question the Chairman and other Directors, including
