Nominations Committee report In this section we set out the role of the There were no changes to the composition Support The Committee received information Nominations Committee, its membership of the Committee during the year.
and support from management during the and what it considered during the year.
year to enable it to carry out its duties and Report on the Committees activities responsibilities effectively.
The Committee Role of the Committee in 2007 has the right to appoint external advisers The Board has delegated to the Committee Meetings and Attendance The Committee, where it believes it is appropriate.
responsibility for reviewing and proposing which meets as often as required, met appointments to the Board and for five times during the year.
Attendance recommending any other changes to by Committee members at each meeting the composition of the Board or the Board is set out in the table below: Committees.
The principal responsibilities Maximum of the Committee include: possible Meetings attendance attended reviewing the composition of the Board Michael Miles 5 5 and making recommendations to the Andrew Beeson 5 4 Board with respect to the role and responsibilities required for each Luc Bertrand 5 3 appointment: Sir Peter Job 5 4 ensuring there is a formal, rigorous Merlyn Lowther 5 5 and transparent procedure for the George Mallinckrodt 5 4 appointment of new Directors: Kevin Parry 5 5 selecting and or interviewing potential Bruno Schroder 5 5 candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committees: identifying and recommending suitable Principal issues addressed during 2007 candidates for the roles of Chairman were: and Senior Independent Director: The size and composition of the Board developing and recommending and the principal Board Committees: and appropriate criteria for determining The Committees terms of reference and Director independence: the discharge of its responsibilities.
periodically reviewing the terms of appointment of the non-executive The Committee reviewed the size and Directors: and composition of the Board and the three conducting an annual review of the principal Committees: Remuneration, Audit Committees performance, periodically and Nominations.
Following the review, the reviewing the adequacy of its terms Committee reaffirmed the principles agreed of reference and recommending any in 2003 that the Board should continue to changes to the Board.
have a balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors and The full terms of reference of the Committee Directors who have a connection with the are available on www.
com or principal shareholder group.
from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
The Committee also undertook a review of its terms of reference and its operation to ensure The composition of the Committee the terms of reference reflected best practice All non-executive Directors are members of and were appropriate for the Company.
This the Committee, the composition of which at review included benchmarking against other the end of 2007 was: FTSE 100 companies.
The review concluded that the terms of reference were broadly in line Michael Miles Chairman with other companies and reflected current Andrew Beeson best practice and it was agreed that there Luc Bertrand should be no extension of the Committees Sir Peter Job current role.
The terms of reference were Merlyn Lowther updated to reflect the current operation of George Mallinckrodt the Committee.
This included clarifying that Kevin Parry all non-executive Directors were members of Bruno Schroder the Committee and that the Chief Executive In addition the Chief Executive, Michael would normally be invited to attend meetings.
Dobson, is generally invited to attend The revised terms of reference were approved Committee meetings.
