Audit Committee report 38 39 In this section we set out the role of the Audit Other issues As well as the agreed schedule Report on the Committees activities Committee, its membership and the matters of issues the Committee also received reports in 2007 it considered during the year.
and presentations on various subjects Meetings and attendance The Committee connected principally to the control met four times in 2007 and there was full environment within the Group.
These included Role of the Committee attendance for all meetings.
presentations on the management of major The Board has delegated to the Committee To assist the Committee in fulfilling its role, IT projects, the implications for the Group responsibility for overseeing the financial a number of senior executives are invited to of the Marketing in Financial Instruments reporting and internal control of the Group attend Committee meetings.
These include Directive and the provision of information and for maintaining an appropriate the Chief Financial Officer, the Heads of to the external auditors.
The Committee relationship with the Companys auditors.
Group Compliance, Group Risk, Group also reviewed the scope and level of cover The main role of the Committee is to Internal Audit and the Group General provided by the Groups Directors and encourage and safeguard the highest Counsel.
Each of these provided reports Officers liability insurance and the standards of integrity, financial reporting, on their areas of responsibility to each appropriateness of cover provided by other risk management and internal control.
The Groups external insurances, the governance of the Groups In doing this the principal responsibilities auditors, , are also pension arrangements and the governance of the Committee include: represented at each meeting and presented of outsourced activities.
Each of these reports reports on their activities.
Reviewing the form and content and was discussed fully by the Committee.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys During the year the Committee met Non-audit services and auditor and the Groups financial statements: separately on two occasions with the independence The Group has adopted a Reviewing and monitoring the Groups external auditors and with the policy covering the provision of non-audit arrangements for ensuring the objectivity Head of Group Internal Audit without services to the Group by the external and effectiveness of the external and executive management present.
This policy was adopted by the internal audit functions: provides an opportunity for the external Committee in 2004 to enhance further the Recommending to the Board the and internal auditors to raise matters of governance of the provision of such services appointment, re-appointment or removal concern in confidence.
No issues of and provide a clear and transparent of the external auditors: significance were raised in 2007. framework to ensure the objectivity and Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness The Committee has a formal programme of independence of the external auditors.
of the Companys internal controls and issues which it covers during the year.
This Under the policy the provision of any service risk management systems: and programme is formulated by the Committee that might lead to a conflict of interests is not Reviewing and monitoring the Companys Chairman and the Company Secretary and permitted unless other possible providers are ethical standards and procedures for is designed to ensure that all matters that fall themselves conflicted.
In such exceptional ensuring compliance with regulatory and within the Committees remit are reviewed at cases the Audit Committee must approve financial reporting requirements and the the appropriate time.
each service and approval will only be given Groups relationship with the relevant where the Committee is satisfied that regulatory authorities.
Principal issues considered during appropriate measures are in place to manage 2007 were: The Committee reviewed its terms of or mitigate any potential conflict of interest.
reference in February 2007 and proposed The annual financial statement for 2006 During 2007 there were no instances where certain amendments to clarify its role in and interim financial statement for 2007:  were engaged respect of the Groups UK subsidiaries The external audit plan for 2007: to provide services which might lead to a that are regulated by the Financial Services Group Internal Audits plans for 2007 and conflict of interests.
The revised terms of reference 2008 and its quarterly reports on its The policy also has strict rules in relation were approved by the Board and are available activities and the control environment: to the approval of contracts for non-audit on www.
com or from the The Groups risk management process, services which do not present a possible Company Secretary at the registered office.
including key risks facing the Group: conflict of interest.
All contracts for nonThe Groups overall governance and audit services must be notified to the Head The Composition of the Committee risk framework: of Finance Operations and contracts valued The members of the Committee are: The appropriateness of the accounting in excess of 5,000 require prior approval.
policies used in drawing up the Kevin Parry Chairman The Groups external auditors are also Groups accounts: Luc Bertrand required to provide a report to the Audit The Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Andrew Beeson Committee every six months detailing all Assessment Process as required under Merlyn Lowther non-audit services, including the level of the Capital Requirements Directive: fees charged, and to have their own internal There were no changes to the composition The external auditors year-end report, processes to ensure that the firm, its of the Committee during the year.
All of the interim report and management letter: partners and its staff are independent of the members are independent non-executive The performance, independence and Group.
They must also provide confirmation Directors.
For the purposes of the objectivity of the external auditors, of their independence annually.
Combined Code, Kevin Parry, a former including a review of non-audit fees:  has provided partner in the accountancy firm KPMG LLP, The performance of Group Internal such confirmation in respect of 2007. is considered by the Board to have recent Audit: and and relevant financial experience.
The arrangements for employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties relating to the Companys operations.
Audit Committee report The policy was reviewed by the Committee Committee evaluation in 2007 and the Committee was satisfied The annual evaluation of the Committees that the policy remained appropriate and effectiveness was undertaken as part of the was being adhered to.
In 2007 the value overall Board evaluation process.
The specific of non-audit services provided by findings relating to the Audit Committee were  to Group discussed with the Committee Chairman.
The range Chairman subsequently met with the other of non-audit services provided by members of the Committee and the Chief  in 2007 included Financial Officer to review the Committees tax advice, AAF report on internal controls role and responsibilities and the discharge and regulatory opinions on client money of those responsibilities in the light of current and assets for regulated subsidiaries.
To support the principles of independence, Support to the Committee the auditors have a policy governing the The Committee received information length of time a partner can work on the and support from management during the Schroders audit.
In accordance with year to enable it to carry out its duties and this policy  responsibilities effectively.
The programme of changed the senior audit partner in 2006. business-related presentations was integrated The Committee is satisfied that the external into the briefing sessions organised for the auditors remain independent.
whole Board during the year.
Reference to The Committee considered the these briefings are included in the corporate re-appointment of  governance report on page 26. as auditors, taking into account the results The Committee has access to external of the auditor assessment process, the independent advice at the Companys quality of work undertaken and the level of expense, normally through the Board audit fees.
The Committee concluded that Secretary.
it was appropriate to recommend the re-appointment of the auditors and that this recommendation be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
