Section 04 Governance 43 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Corporate Governance Report General principles Directors The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate The Board governance.
During the year to 31 December 2007 and as With effect from 1 January 2008, the Company is led by a Board detailed below and in the Remuneration Report, the Company comprising five Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Throughout 2007, however, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Code on Corporate Governance June 2006.
Directors comprised more than half of the Board.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be Ethics and Business Integrity Policy independent of management.
They each have wide areas of Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business experience and have no business or other relationship that could integrity and ethics which underlies the Carillion values of materially interfere with their independent judgement.
David openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable, Garman is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation.
The Ethics and Integrity Policy demonstrates how Carillion In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors will conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
The policy applies to all employees of any Carillion group A detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate governance company.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is and will be procedures and compliance was again conducted in 2007 by the reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The internal the quality and value of its work and through the reliability evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors and reputation of its employees.
on i the role of Directors, ii the performance of the Board, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, iii Board Committees, The policy is iv leadership and culture, v Corporate Governance vi Directors remuneration, vii relations with shareholders and viii Board business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes.
We do accountability and audit.
The Board at its meeting in November not sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or 2007 reviewed the results of the internal evaluation and, where gifts-in-kind.
We will investigate fully all alleged breaches.
required, issues were acted upon in order to further enhance the We will dismiss any employee who has breached this policy effectiveness of the Boards procedures and working practices.
mutual respect: we do what we say we will do.
We treat our people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding This is the sixth year that this process has taken place and will discrimination and bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy be repeated annually as the Board considers it satisfactory.
working environment, and respect sustainable principles in In addition, reviews of the performance of each of the Directors all our dealings has taken place.
trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the We respect the trust placed in us by others, not least when Group Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and we are asked to take responsibility for aspects of their business encompasses the following parameters or resources.
We maintain and demand high professional standards and demand honesty and openness.
We avoid the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to conflicts of interest wherever possible, and we proactively provide continuity, experience and governance while the declare any unavoidable conflicts for open scrutiny and Group Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination resolution and the driving force legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward We clearly communicate procedures for disciplining those of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the who do not comply with the law or our standards and policies.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline We maintain a system for confidential reporting of breaches of their respective roles encourages the Chairman and of our standards and policies Group Chief Executive to work well together to provide human rights: we support the belief that human rights are effective and complementary stewardship universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in our the Chairman must: operations.
We support the United Nations Universal take overall responsibility for the composition and capability Declaration on Human Rights.
of the Board consult regularly with the Group Chief Executive and be This policy is carried into Carillions business through a series of available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion to carry into practice support to the Group Chief Executive.
its reputation for conducting business to the highest ethical the Group Chief Executive must: standard which is essential to its relationships with customers, manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day to business partners, employees, shareholders and the public.
day activities The detailed procedures reflect the way Carillion competes for prepare and present to the Board strategic options for business, through the quality and value of its work and through growth in shareholder value the reliability and reputation of its people.
set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy and its implementation ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
44 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Board had a programme of ten meetings in 2007 and also Audit Committee meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
David Maloney, Chairman David Garman A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Steven Mogford consideration and decision is maintained.
These matters include Vanda Murray statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive financial statements and the recommendation of dividends Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit appointments to, and removals from, the Board and the terms Committee on pages 45 to 47. of reference and membership of Board committees approval of Group strategy and annual budgets Nominations Committee approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies Philip Rogerson, Chairman authorisation for any acquisition or disposal David Garman review of the internal control arrangements and risk David Maloney management strategies John McDonough review of corporate governance arrangements.
Steven Mogford Vanda Murray The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance the Board and any matters outside of these limits must be referred of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes to the Board for consideration.
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is planning to ensure that processes and plans are in place with responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures regard to both Board and senior appointments.
and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Attendance at meetings in 2007 The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take attended by each Director during 2007 was as follows: independent professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee The Board is provided with regular and timely information on Number of the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and meetings held 10 4 2 3 of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading 1 Richard Adam 8 matters, markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
David Garman 10 4 2 3 2 Christopher Girling2 Board Committees The principal Board Committees are the Remuneration Committee, Donald Kenny 10 the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The David Maloney 10 4 2 3 Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
John McDonough 10 3 The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees are Steven Mogford 9 3 2 3 available on the Carillion website at www.
com or on Vanda Murray 10 4 2 3 request from the Company Secretary.
Roger Robinson 10 The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: Philip Rogerson 10 3 1 Appointed on 2 April 2007.
Remuneration Committee 2 Left the Company on 2 April 2007.
David Garman, Chairman David Maloney Other Board matters Steven Mogford Policy on external appointments Vanda Murray Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of fees received for such appointments.
John McDonough is a Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc and Richard Adam is on pages 48 to 55. a Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc.
Section 04 Governance 45 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Nomination and remuneration of Directors At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by November 2007 the Directors visited the Groups operations in the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Dubai.
Directors also visit other operations and staff.
The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is For the Board appointment made in 2007, the Nominations encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the Committee used the services of the executive recruitment Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements consultant JCA.
Details of potential candidates were provided in this respect.
by JCA and initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with selected candidates Relations with shareholders were then held with Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from Committee met to recommend an appointment, which was time to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group then approved by the Board.
Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are objectives.
The details of these meetings are reported to the normally for three years: re-appointment is subject to review and Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive is not automatic.
Director are available for meetings with representatives of major shareholders as required.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend participation in the work of committees and other advisory the Companys Annual General Meeting.
services in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of of the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on and Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General independent external advice.
Meeting on 7 May 2008 to respond to shareholders questions.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Accountability and Audit Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent NonRetirement of Directors by rotation Executive Directors: All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Directors retiring and seeking David Maloney, Chairman re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on David Garman 7 May 2008 are Philip Rogerson and David Garman.
Steve Mogford Vanda Murray Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
Accordingly, David Maloney is an accountant who previously held a number David Hurcomb will seek election at the 2008 Annual General of senior finance posts including Chief Financial Officer for Meeting.
Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts, Chief Financial Officer for the Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed to the Audit and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are Committee in December 2005. available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday bank holidays David Garman is Chief Executive of TDG plc and was appointed excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
to the Audit Committee in October 2004.
Induction and development of Directors Vanda Murray is Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Group, Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack Deputy Chairman elect of the North West Development Agency on joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other and a Director of The Cheshire Building Society.
Vanda was duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005. addition, all new Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters as the operation and activities of the Steve Mogford is Chief Executive of Selex Sensors and Airborne Group, the role of the Board and the Companys corporate Systems SpA and was appointed to the Audit Committee in governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the September 2006.
Companys external advisors, where appropriate, on changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
46 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation Internal controls of the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of external auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of as it requires from time to time.
The Committee also meets the internal control system.
However, such a system can provide privately with both the external and internal auditors.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal the review of the annual and interim financial statements Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the consideration of the impact of changes to accounting Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, regulations and the financial and accounting policies of the evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and Carillion Group non-financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks compliance with statutory and other external requirements faced by the Group including Joint Ventures and overseas reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under results of its audit work and the response of management review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
its cost-effectiveness Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are across the Group is provided through a combination of techniques complementary monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and auditors and ensuring that the services provided including effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by non-audit services provide a proper balance between the business and reports its findings to management, the objectivity and value for money Executive Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan recommending to the Board the external auditors to be is presented to and approved by the Audit Committee annually proposed to shareholders for appointment.
recommendations to improve the system of control are made by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any recommendations is followed up and reported on quarterly information necessary to fulfil its duties, ii call any member of Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and procedures and control processes implemented by when required and iii obtain external professional advice, at management the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the fulfilment of its duties.
Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to ensure the control In 2007, the Committee met on four occasions and dealt with the environment in their business areas is appropriate.
They also following matters confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating internal audit reports including control of risk effectively annual and interim financial statements Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application KPMG audit review of internal controls in key business projects and on policy and top ten risks procedure changes.
reappointment of KPMG 2007 audit plan Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
internal audit review The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and assessment of the going concern basis ensures that the level of confidence required by the Board is review of compliance with the Combined Code obtained.
It also ensures the financial reporting process is the external audit fee.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive access to the Audit Committee members.
Directors which also reflect their membership of the Audit Committee and other Board committees.
Any significant internal control issues would be disclosed in this report.
Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to 31 December 2007 Risk management Financial statements The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an In this context, the Committee also reviews the written reports independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the of KPMG on issues arising from the annual audit and the review Major Projects Committee see below.
This appraisal ensures of the interim results.
that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
Section 04 Governance 47 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals from The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis to assess by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of the strategic risks facing the Carillion Group.
The conclusions of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of the Risk Forum are reported to the Audit Committee.
KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts also has discussions with the auditor, without management being as the sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgmental including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
This committee has delegated authority up to specified levels of risk as determined by a risk The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance assessment matrix, beyond which Board approval is required.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses and the Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and local KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for approval.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards.
The guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting current audit director responsible for the Carillion engagement is and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has in his third year of signing the report.
There is also rotation of key a policy to prosecute individuals found to have defrauded the members within the audit team.
Learning points for management are identified and action plans implemented to minimise the Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been recurrence of fraud.
and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about not compromised.
In summary, the procedures are malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work is available.
of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support is required then this is considered competitively Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion of significant risks applicable to its areas of business together uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may competitively be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, general and systems consulting: all significant consulting including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, projects are subject to competitive tender.
competition, corporate social responsibility, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management is also responsible Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give for timely and accurate reporting of business performance and prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates for ensuring compliance with the policies set by the Board in its in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is to areas of business.
Regular performance review meetings are determine that other potential providers of the services have held where management reports to the Executive Directors been adequately considered.
on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in the audit of the Group.
the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular Health and safety financial information, which includes key performance indicators A review of the Groups progress on health and safety is provided and a summary of risk.
These key performance indicators and risks in the Group Chief Executives report on page 18 and the Groups are listed in the Group Chief Executives Review on pages 16 to Sustainability performance is contained in the Sustainability review 19.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board on pages 33 to 35. considers the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by the Audit Committee.
This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
R F Tapp Audit independence Secretary The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the 5 March 2008 objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
