211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 35 Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Group has taken to apply the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board considers that the Group has achieved compliance with all the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the financial year.
The Board The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group and for ensuring that the right strategy and controls are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and the wider community of individuals and organisations which benefit from the Groups activities.
St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board meets six times a year, with additional meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis as required.
During 2007 there were six formal Board Meetings plus an additional all day strategy meeting.
A table containing the Directors attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 38.
Prior to each Board meeting, members are supplied with an agenda and pack containing reports on current trading, sales, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Chairmen of the various sub-committees of the Board also report to the Board at each meeting and copies of board committee minutes are included in the packs for information purposes.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, a copy of which can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the corporate website.
The primary responsibilities of the Board are to: determine the overall strategy of the Group: ensure that the Groups operations are well managed and proper succession plans are in place: review major transactions or initiatives proposed by the executive Directors: implement appropriate Corporate Governance procedures: periodically review the results and operations of the Group: ensure that proper accounting records are maintained and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Group from fraud and other significant risks: identify and manage risk: and decide the Groups policy on charitable and political donations.
A Board Control Manual sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group and defines the terms of reference of the Committees of the Board and the Groups risk policies.
In addition, it contains detailed job descriptions of the Directors showing their individual responsibilities.
The Manual is reviewed by the Board annually.
35 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 36 Corporate Governance Report continued The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
No single individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the continued effectiveness of the Board of Directors and communication with shareholders.
He also liaises with senior members of the Partnership and acts as a sounding board to the senior management team, where they feel it appropriate.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Group and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises an Executive Chairman, five independent non-executive Directors, two nonindependent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
Changes to the Board during the year include the resignation of Mark Lund in January 2007, the appointment of David Bellamy as Chief Executive in May 2007 and the appointment to the Board of David Lamb, Group Business Development Director, in December 2007.
Simon Gulliford resigned as a non-executive Director in February 2008.
The Nomination Commiteee has started the process to find a replacement non-executive Director with the assistance of an external search consultancy.
When determining whether a non-executive Director is independent, the Board considers for each non-executive Director whether they are independent in character and judgement, how they conduct themselves in Board meetings, whether they have any relationships or other circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement, and whether they act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders at all times.
The Board has considered the independence of Derek Netherton with particular care given that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board does not believe that it is in the interests of the Group to replace Derek Netherton with a further non-executive Director appointment at the present time.
Derek continues to contribute significantly to the Board and its Committees through his individual skills and considerable knowledge of both the Company and the financial services industry.
His financial and actuarial knowledge is particularly helpful in connection with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and he continues to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which he discharges his responsibility as a Director at Board and Committee meetings by questioning and constructively challenging management as and when he considers it appropriate.
This matter is subject to annual review by the Board with the assistance of the Nomination Committee.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available on request and will be available at the Annual General Meeting in April 2008.
The Senior Independent Director Michael Sorkin has acted as the Senior Independent Director since May 2005.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 37 Corporate Governance Report continued Professional Development Directors receive training in their duties and responsibilities on appointment as part of an induction process designed to assist them in their understanding of the business, including meeting with members of senior management, Partners and visiting some of the Groups offices.
The Directors are also offered training on an ongoing basis via a rolling programme coordinated by the Company Secretary.
During 2007 a number of non-executive Directors attended location meetings and the Double Partner Development Conference, where they received presentations on the business and had an opportunity to meet with Partners and staff.
Non-executive Directors are briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and have an opportunity to meet with shareholders as necessary.
The Directors are regularly updated on their duties and responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as well as independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made available as necessary to ensure that the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments applicable to their roles and topical issues are also addressed before each Board meeting.
For example, the Board have been updated by the Company Secretary on the new Directors duties and other material changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, as well as receiving pre-Board presentations on topical business projects by senior management that have included results of the 2007 staff survey, solvency update and an update on the implications and progress of FSAs Retail Distribution Review.
Performance Evaluation During 2007, the Chairman met each non-executive Director on a one-to-one basis as well as meeting the nonexecutive Directors together.
Issues discussed included feedback on Board issues, topics for pre-Board presentations, non-executive Director training requirements and the results of the performance evaluation of the Board.
In addition, the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance and to discuss other topical issues such as succession plans and the overall performance of the Board.
The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance and of its committees and individual Directors by way of a detailed questionnaire and interviews carried out by the Company Secretary.
The findings were presented to the Board and, as a result, a number of improvements are being made such as ensuring more information is provided in Board packs on competitor activity and more detailed discussions on succession planning.
The Senior Independent Director carried out a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
Board Committees The Board has formally constituted six committees, being the Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration, Risk and Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and terms of reference of the Board committees are reviewed at least annually and are available on request and on the Companys website.
37 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 38 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Meetings and Attendance The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2007 was as follows: Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment 7 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 6 meetings Sarah Bates 7 5 - - - 6 David Bellamy 7 - - - - Andrew Croft 7 - - - - 4 4 Jo Dawson 7 - - - - - Ian Gascoigne 7 - - - - - Simon Gulliford 6 - - 3 2 - Andy Hornby 7 - - - - - Derek Netherton 6 - 5 3 - - Mike Power 7 5 5 - - - Michael Sorkin 6 - 2 3 2 3 4 Roger Walsom 6 4 - - - - Mike Wilson 7 - - - 2 - Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the Director was a Board or Committee member.
David Lamb was appointed an executive Director on 3 December 2007, after the last Board meeting of the year.
He has not, therefore, been included for the purposes of the above table, however he is a member of the Investment Commitee and attended all meetings during the year.
David Bellamy and Ian Gascoigne attend Risk Committee meetings.
Mike Wilson and David Bellamy also attend Remuneration Committee meetings as required.
Audit Committee Members: Derek Netherton Chairman, Michael Sorkin and Mike Power The Audit Committee comprises solely independent non-executive Directors.
All of the Committee members held office throughout the year and at the date of this report and have considerable financial experience, as can be seen from their biographies on pages 27 to 29.
During the year, the Committee invited the Finance Director, the Group Risk Director, members of the Internal Audit and Risk Management team, an HBOS representative and the external auditor to attend meetings.
The Committee also received further training on IFRS during the year.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the corporate website and a summary is set out below: to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group, including reviewing and advising the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards: to review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors, the results of the audit work and the responses of management: to make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and to monitor their performance: to review any non-audit services provided by the external auditors and to maintain responsibility for ensuring the independence, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditors: to monitor and oversee the Groups internal control procedures and risk management processes: to approve the internal audit plan for the year and review reports on the results of such internal audits including the response of management: 38 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 39 Corporate Governance Report continued to review the activities, resources, organisational structure and operational effectiveness of the internal audit function: to receive reports from the internal audit function on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups control framework: to carry out an annual review of the Groups system of internal control: and to assess the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
During the year, the Committee formally reviewed and considered the following: the draft interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focussing on key areas of judgement and accounting policies: reports of the Risk Management and Internal Audit functions and findings of the external auditor: at each meeting a progress report on the internal audit plan and regular updates on the implementation of that plan: an annual review of the Groups system of internal control: the performance of the external auditor: the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing policy and HBOS related party transactions: and the outcome of SJP UK plcs Individual Capital Assessment.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors independence and the services provided by the external auditors.
In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has established a financial limit of 100,000 on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit advice and consultancy work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 82.
Remuneration Committee Members: Michael Sorkin Chairman, Derek Netherton and Roger Walsom.
The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent non-executive Directors.
Michael Sorkin, Simon Gulliford and Derek Netherton held office during the year.
Simon Gulliford resigned as a non-executive Director and member of the Committee in February 2008 and Roger Walsom has been apointed to serve on the Committee as Simons replacement.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the corporate website and a summary is set out below: to determine all remuneration for executive Directors and senior management: to determine the discretionary bonus scheme for executive Directors and to review the performance of the Directors against the scheme: to determine appropriate incentives to executive Directors to encourage enhanced performance including grants of options or awards of shares and determining the policy and performance conditions of such grants or awards: to determine the policy for and scope of termination payments and severance terms for executive Directors: and to be responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
Further details on the work of the Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 48.
39 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 40 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Members: Michael Sorkin Chairman, Derek Netherton and Mike Wilson In January 2007, Mike Wilson stepped down as Chairman of the Committee and was succeeded by Michael Sorkin.
Simon Gulliford resigned as a non-executive Director and member of the Committee in February 2008 and Derek Netherton has been appointed to serve on the Committee as Simons replacement.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the corporate website and a summary is set out below: to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required for a role and the preparation of a description of any new role and the capabilities required: to consider new appointments and to make recommendations on suitable candidates to the Board: and to consider succession planning for senior executive positions and the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
During the year, the Committee played a lead role in evaluating suitable candidates for the post of Chief Executive.
An external consultancy was appointed to assist with the search and helped the Committee to define and agree a set of objective criteria on which the merits of each candidate were then assessed.
Following a thorough process during which a number of external candidates were identified and interviewed, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of David Bellamy to the role.
This decision was considered and ratified by the full Board in May 2007.
In addition, the Committee considered and advised the Board on the appointment of David Lamb, Group Business Development Director, as an executive Director to the Board, following a review of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Committee will also in due course, consider suitable non-executive candidates to fill the post recently vacated by Simon Gulliford.
The Committee also reviewed the succession plans for Board and senior management and considered the results of the staff survey.
Risk Committee Members: Mike Power Chairman, Sarah Bates and Roger Walsom.
During 2007, the Chief Executive, Group Sales Director, Group Risk Director, members of the Internal Audit and Risk Management team and an HBOS representative were all invited by the Chairman to attend meetings.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website and a summary is set out below: to foster a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: to review the material and emerging risks affecting the Group and to call for reports from management on how material risks are being managed: to report to the Audit Committee and the Board on any material areas of concern or weakness identified by the Committee: to review and approve the Groups Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies: to carry out an annual review of the procedures for the identification, recording and mitigation of material risks across the Group: and to make recommendations for changes in risk related practices or procedures.
During the year, the Committee received regular updates by senior executives on risk identification and mitigation within specific areas of the business, including Risk Management structures relating to the financial advice provided by the St. Jamess Place Partnership and the Groups compliance arrangements.
In addition, the Committee considered the arrangements in place for Business Continuity Planning.
40 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 20 3 08 12:57 Page 41 Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee also formally reviewed and considered the following: the emerging, topical and corporate risks: reports from operational compliance on Risk Management: the annual Risk Appetite Statement: risk reports from the Irish life company St. Jamess Place International plc: the annual Money Laundering Reporting Ofcers report: SJP UK plcs Individual Capital Assessment: and the Internal Audit plan.
Investment Committee Members: Sir Mark Weinberg Chairman, Sarah Bates, Andrew Croft, David Lamb and Michael Sorkin Sir Mark Weinberg and Sarah Bates held ofce throughout the year.
Mark Lund was a Committee member until his resignation on 4 January 2007.
Andrew Croft, David Lamb and Michael Sorkin were appointed members of the Committee during the year.
Various members of the Asset Management team and advisers from Stamford Associates were all invited to attend meetings during the year by the Chairman.
The Committees main responsibilities are: to oversee the Groups investment management approach: to monitor the performance and suitability of the fund managers and to ensure that they follow the terms of their agreements with the Group: to make recommendations in relation to the appointment or removal of fund managers: to oversee market risk: and to consider and make recommendations in relation to the appointment and the continued effectiveness of the investment consultant.
In 2007, the Committee continued to monitor the Groups existing investment managers and focused on the key issue of diversication in order to reduce risk for investors.
During the year, the Committee formally reviewed and considered: the appointment of four new managers to run a range of newly created funds investing in different assets with different risk attributes: the replacement of a European equity manager with a new manager: and holding face-to-face reporting sessions with each fund manager on a regular basis throughout the year, giving members the opportunity to question them closely.
A copy of the Report of the Investment Committee 2007, which gives more details on the work of the Investment Committee, can be obtained by contacting the Company.
Urgent Issues Committee Comprising the Chairman and at least two other Directors, one of whom must be a non-executive Director, the role of the Urgent Issues Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can act only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, the issue under consideration will be referred for decision to the full Board.
The Committee did not meet during 2007.
41 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 42 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance The Group has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers.
During the year, members of the Board and other senior employees who act as Directors of subsidiary companies were each granted indemnities from the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount and protect recipients from certain losses and liabilities that they may incur to third parties in connection with the furtherance of their duties as Directors or employees of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of the indemnities are available to the shareholders upon request.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
In addition, there are regular meetings with the Companys brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and Dresdner Kleinwort, who facilitate meetings with other investors and their representatives.
Attendance notes from such meetings are circulated to members of the Board so they are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders should the need arise.
Non-executive Directors are also available to meet with major shareholders on request.
Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions on the Groups plans and strategy and the activities of the Board and its Committees.
Relationship with HBOS plc The Company and Halifax Group plc entered into a Relationship Agreement in order to regulate the relationship between the two companies after the completion of the Partial Offer in June 2000.
The Relationship Agreement was novated to HBOS plc following the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company can operate independently of the HBOS group and to provide that the relationship between members of the HBOS group and the SJP Group will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under the Agreement, HBOS has power to appoint a number of Directors to the Board and its Committees.
The number varies in relation to HBOS shareholding in the Company and HBOS currently has the right to appoint three non-executive Directors to the Board.
As at the date of this report, HBOS has appointed two non-executive Directors to the SJP Board, being Jo Dawson and Andy Hornby.
Risk & Risk Management Introduction The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risk are an integral part of SJPs management process.
Understanding the risks we face and managing them appropriately enables effective decision making and helps us to achieve our business objectives.
As shareholders will appreciate, however, like any successful business we must take some risk, and where we do this we seek to manage our exposure in accordance with our Risk Appetite Statement as described on the following page.
The information contained opposite in The Risk Management Framework and Principal Risks & Uncertainties sections is an integral part of the audited financial statements.
42 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 43 Corporate Governance Report continued The Risk Management Framework The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the framework within which risk is managed at SJP.
At the hub of this framework is our Risk Appetite Statement.
Through our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets out the risk boundaries, by specifying the types of risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board to ensure that it remains current and continues to take account of any emerging or topical risk.
For example, our Risk Appetite Statement currently explicitly precludes the Group from: the manufacture of, or provision of advice on, products which promise guaranteed investment returns: taking any credit or insurance related risks through the manufacture of general insurance or lending products: and the sale of with-profits business.
Supporting the implementation of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a formal risk policy, which clearly sets out our objectives, principles and high level roles and responsibilities in relation to risk management.
This policy underpins the deployment of sound risk management throughout the organisation and does so via a range of individual sub-risk policies and processes in areas including insurance risk, market risk, credit risk, group risk and liquidity risk.
High level oversight of our Risk Management Systems is provided by the Risk Committee of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group and it reviews and assesses corporate and emerging risks.
Further information on the Risk Committee is set out on pages 40 and 41.
At an operating level, all key business divisions across the Group are required to maintain risk schedules which record specific risks and vulnerabilities to which they may be exposed, as well as providing detail on how these vulnerabilities are being managed and whether the exposure is increasing or decreasing.
Production and maintenance of these schedules is the responsibility of individual business areas, with new or emerging risks being reported to, and challenged by, the Executive Committee on a bi-monthly basis.
Sitting alongside all of the above elements of the risk framework, we also have a central Group Risk function whose primary role is to ensure that an appropriate Risk Management System is in place, that it is fit for purpose and is working as intended.
It is responsible for the ongoing development and co-ordination of risk management and, importantly, for the consolidation, reporting and, where appropriate, escalation of risk related management information.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Group are considered to be inherent within both our business model and the market environment within which we operate.
At the time of preparing this report, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the high level controls and processes in place by which we aim to mitigate those risks are over page : 43 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 44 Corporate Governance Report continued Mitigation Business Model Risks We employ a number of specialist managers specifically to That the Groups distribution strength may be eroded due to an manage the recruitment and retention of high quality Partners.
inability to recruit and retain Partners of the appropriate quality.
Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good quality, experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
We actively manage and monitor the performance of That our approach to investment management may fail to deliver our investment managers through the Investment Committee and expected results to clients of the Group.
a firm of professional external advisers Stamford Associates.
We are able to, and do, react swiftly to poor fund performance and we replace underperforming fund managers where this is felt appropriate.
We seek to maintain open and mutually beneficial relationships That the Group may face regulatory censure should it fail to with our regulators.
Via our Group Risk Department, we have a comply with historic, current or future regulation.
range of compliance monitoring activities designed to ensure we remain compliant with applicable regulations.
We maintain close working relationships with our outsourced That the Groups outsourcing dependent business model may business partners and should have sufficient warning of any come under threat should any of its key investment management material changes that may impact upon our business model.
or administration business partners decide to exit or significantly All relationships are governed by formal agreements with revise their strategy.
adequate notice periods and full exit management plans.
Strong alternative providers exist in the market.
We closely monitor competitor activity and the marketplace for That a major and successful new entrant to the adviser-based mass signs of any potential new entrants or threats.
As noted above, we wealth management market has an impact on the key drivers of also have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and SJPs business.
retention over the last 15 years which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
Established SJP Partners have significant equity stakes in their practices and these are structured to aid retention.
We have a range of strategic initiatives in place including, for That developments in the industry or in the scale of SJPs business example, regular staff surveys and consultation groups which have an adverse effect on SJPs culture and ultimately the enable us to monitor the sentiment of our staff and advisers and continuing success of the business.
identify any adverse or potential adverse impacts upon our culture.
Market Environment Risks Where appropriate, we maintain dialogue with the UK Financial That changes in the wider regulatory, legislative or tax Services Authority FSA, the Irish Financial Regulator and other environment in which the Group operates ultimately lead to a key industry bodies on proposed or potential changes which may significant decline in new business volumes.
Where necessary, we will develop alternative strategies to minimise the impact of any changes.
We closely monitor the performance of our business plan, the That a major and prolonged economic downturn and or stock performance of the markets and consumer confidence.
Robust market crash leads to a failure to meet targets and to a significant management information is used to facilitate this monitoring and underperformance of our business plan.
to identify early signals of a market decline.
44 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 45 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This includes a responsibility for financial, operational and compliance controls in managing the risks inherent in the business.
The Audit and Risk Committees of the Board along with the appropriately staffed and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities.
The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas and have established processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Adherence to regulatory codes of conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit Committee conducts an annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and other risk management systems.
The review also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the internal audit function, and the potential impact on these processes as a result of any changes during the year to the risks that the Group faces.
When control issues of significance have occurred the Audit Committee has received full and detailed reports from management and internal audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous improvement.
Where appropriate, such cases have been taken forward to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit Committee for noting and discussion.
In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate risks and as such can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the Boards view, the information it has received from entity wide risk assessment, operational management, and the reports issued by the internal auditors was sufficient to enable it to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides that, in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
45 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 46 Corporate Governance Report continued The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the methodology contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: identified and described the business covered by the EEV Principles: applied the EEV Principles consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
