Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for the thereafter, to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
overall management of the Group and for ensuring that proper The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters standards of corporate governance are maintained.
specifically reserved for its decision.
These matters include determining and reviewing the strategy of the Company and the This report describes how the Board have applied the principles Group, overseeing the Groups compliance with statutory and and provisions of the Code of Best Practice contained in the regulatory obligations and issues relating to the Companys and Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the the Groups capital.
Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The directors confirm that throughout 2007 the Company It is also responsible for the Groups structure and areas of complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code except operation, financial reporting, ensuring there is a sound system that non-executive directors are not formally invited to meet major of internal control and risk management and appointments to shareholders as part of their induction programme.
The Group has a policy on delegated authority which non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings sets out how executive authority is delegated from the Board to with major shareholders and analysts and they receive, in a timely the CEO and on to the executive directors and other senior manner, accurate information reflecting the views of the management.
In addition, specific responsibilities have been Companys institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
delegated to Board Committees which have adopted terms of reference that govern their authority which can be found on The Company is a public company, listed on both the London the Companys website at www.
and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and has sufficient share capital in public hands.
The directors confirm that, throughout the The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
One of the financial year, the Company complied with the provisions of meetings includes a two day offsite meeting devoted to the Appendix 14 of the HK Listing Rules.
review and development of Group strategy.
During 2007, two of the meetings were held outside the United Kingdom in countries The directors confirm that the Company has in place a code of where the Group operates.
The directors use these overseas conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms visits to meet staff, corporate customers and local government no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the HK Listing and regulatory officials.
Rules and that the directors of the Company complied with this code of conduct throughout the financial period.
The directors are given accurate, timely and clear information so that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, The Board financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
In As at the date of this report, the Board is made up of the addition, all directors have access to the services and advice Chairman, four executive directors and ten independent nonof the Group Company Secretary and may take independent executive directors and is collectively responsible for the success professional advice at the expense of the Company in the of the Company.
In accordance with the Combined Code, at all furtherance of their duties.
times during the year, at least half the Board comprised nonexecutive directors.
All directors are subject to election by The following table shows the number of Board and shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of individual directors.
Audit & Risk Board Board Nomination Board Sustainability and Board Audit & Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Responsibility Scheduled Committee Ad hoc Committee Ad hoc Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2007 8 6 2 3 1 5 3 E M Davies 8 3 1 3 J W Peace 4 4 2 2 P A Sands 8 3 G R Bullock 3 3 Sir CK Chow 8 M B DeNoma 8 J F T Dundas 8 6 2 2 2 1 3 V F Gooding 8 2 3 2 R H P Markham 7 6 1 3 0 R Markland 8 6 2 3 1 5 R H Meddings 8 S B Mittal 4 4 P D Skinner 6 3 O H J Stocken 7 5 0 0 Lord Turner 8 6 2 4 K S Nargolwala 5 5 Mr Peace was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 August 2007, and was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 3 August 2007.
Mr Mittal was appointed as an independent non-executive Director with effect from 1 August 2007.
Mr Bullock was appointed as Group Executive Director on 6 August 2007.
Mr Dundas was appointed as a member of the Board Nomination Committee on 23 February 2007.
Miss Gooding was appointed as a member of the Board Remuneration Committee on 23 February 2007.
Mr Stocken was appointed to the Sustainability and Responsibility Committee on 11 September 2007.
Mr Nargolwala resigned from the Board on 6 September 2007.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The directors have a diverse range of skills and experience Audit and Risk Committee and each brings an independent judgement and considerable The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are: knowledge to the Boards discussions.
On appointment, each director receives a comprehensive and tailored induction Mr R H P Markham chairman covering the Groups business and operations and also the Mr J F T Dundas legal, regulatory and other obligations of a director of a dual-listed Ms R Markland company.
As well as a formal induction, directors receive ongoing Mr J W Peace appointed 3 August 2007 training through a wide ranging programme to continually Lord Turner develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
Where All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive an independent non-executive director is appointed to one of directors.
The Board considers that each member brings a broad the Boards committees, additional relevant training is provided.
experience and knowledge of financial reporting to the Committees Mr Peace was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior deliberations.
The Board is satisfied that the Committees Independent Director, and Mr Mittal was appointed as an chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
independent non-executive director both with effect from 1 August 2007.
Mr Peace and Mr Mittal have substantially The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the completed their induction programmes.
Companys annual and interim financial statements, circulars to shareholders and any formal announcements relating to the The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in Groups financial performance, including significant financial respect of legal proceedings and other claims against its directors.
reporting judgements contained in them.
The Committee In addition, the Company has granted qualifying third party also reviews the recommendations for provisions against bad indemnities to the directors and these indemnities remain in or doubtful loans and other credit exposures.
It keeps under force as at 26 February 2008. review the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies The Boards executive directors are not permitted to hold more and considers changes to them.
Ultimate responsibility for the than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
approval of the annual and interim financial statements rests Details of the directors other directorships can be found in their with the Board.
At least once a year, the Committee meets separately with each Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Group Chief Executive of the external auditor and Group Head of Internal Audit without The separate roles and objectives of the Chairman, Deputy management being present to discuss matters relating to the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are clearly defined in auditors remit and any issues arising from the audit.
written role descriptions which have been approved by the In relation to the Groups internal audit function, the Committees Board and are available on the Companys website at responsibilities include: www.
monitoring and assessing the role and effectiveness of the Independent Non-Executive Directors Groups internal audit function and receiving reports from The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are the Group Head of Internal Audit on these matters: and independent and has received from each of them the annual confirmation of independence required by the HK Listing Rules.
considering the appointment, resignation or dismissal of Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The reviews of the non-executive directors who have served In relation to the Groups external auditor, the Committees on the Board for more than six years are covered in the section responsibilities include: on the work of the Board Nomination Committee below.
considering and making recommendations to the Board Mr J W Peace, in addition to being Deputy Chairman, is the on the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or dismissal Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders may discuss any of the external auditor: issues or concerns with the Senior Independent Director where they have been unable to resolve them through existing channels approving the terms of engagement, nature and scope of for investor communications.
The Chairman meets with the nonthe audit: executive directors without the executive directors being present reviewing the findings of the audit including any major issues at least annually.
that arose during the course of the audit: The Board is aware of the other commitments of its nonreviewing and monitoring the cost effectiveness of the audit executive directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict taking into consideration relevant UK professional and with their duties as directors of the Company.
Changes to the regulatory requirements and approving the audit fee: and commitments of the non-executive directors are reported to the Board.
monitoring the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work and providing prior approval of substantial non-audit work, Board Committees in accordance with the Groups policy.
The Board has four committees with specific delegated authorities: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board Nomination The Committee reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee and the compliance with relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
It Sustainability and Responsibility Committee previously the also reviews the Groups overall principles for risk management Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee.
and the processes by which each risk type is managed.
It considers reports on the management of risk, including The Boards committees are able to take independent adherence to Group standards, and reports on compliance with professional advice or use external consultants, where appropriate, policies in respect of liquidity, capital adequacy and interest rate at the Companys expense.
The Committee reviews the Groups internal Details of these committees and their members are given right financial controls and the Groups internal control systems and and on pages 70-71. reports on these to the Board.
Details of the Companys internal www.
com 69 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued controls and how risk is managed can be found under the Mr Markham has served on the Board for more than six years and Internal Control section on pages 71 and 72. the Committee has carried out a rigorous review of his performance and contributions to the deliberations of the Board During the year the Committee had six scheduled committee and the Audit and Risk Committee during 2007.
The Committee, meetings where it covered all its responsibilities set out in its as part of its review, has taken into account the need for the Terms of Reference.
The Committees activities also included progressive refreshing of the Board and believes that Mr Markham regular reviews of progress towards the implementation of Basel continues to be committed to the Company and remains II: monitoring the risks associated with the Groups rapid growth independent in character and judgement.
in countries such as China: and it reviewed the Groups policy and procedures for the governance of its subsidiaries.
A further In addition, the Committee has reviewed the performance of the two half-day informal meetings were held to consider more closely non-executive directors standing for re-election at the 2008 AGM the Groups new areas of business, balance sheet management and made recommendations to the Board on their re-election.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussion concerning their own performance or circumstance.
Arrangements are in place by which the Companys employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in Board Remuneration Committee matters of financial reporting or other areas.
These arrangements The members of the Board Remuneration Committee are: are covered in the Companys Speaking Up policy.
The Ms R Markland chairman Committee is responsible for reviewing these arrangements Miss V F Gooding appointed 23 February 2007 and for ensuring that any matters of concern are investigated Mr P D Skinner appropriately.
Mr O H J Stocken Board Nomination Committee Lord Turner The members of the Board Nomination Committee are: The Committee determines the pay and benefits of the Group Mr E M Davies chairman Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and all other executive Mr J W Peace appointed 20 February 2008 directors.
It also reviews and approves the remuneration of Mr J F T Dundas appointed 23 February 2007 certain other highly paid senior management.
The remuneration Mr R H P Markham of all directors and senior management is subject to regular Ms R Markland monitoring to ensure that levels of remuneration and compensation are appropriate.
The Committees responsibilities include: A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and and details of the work of the Committee are included in the making recommendations with regard to any changes that the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 85.
Committee deems necessary to ensure the Board has the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience: Sustainability and Responsibility Committee The members of the Sustainability and Responsibility where Board vacancies arise, evaluating the skill, knowledge Committee are: and experience needed to fill the vacancy, and identifying and nominating suitable candidates to the Board: and Mr E M Davies chairman Mr P A Sands keeping under review the succession plans for the Group Mr J F T Dundas relating to both directors and other senior executives to Miss V F Gooding ensure the Company continues to compete effectively in the Mr O H P Stocken appointed 11 September 2007 marketplace and making consequential recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers matters relating to how Standard The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations Chartered can build a sustainable business through consideration to the Board for the appointment of the Group Chairman, Group of environmental protection, social investment, economic Chief Executive or any other director.
The Group Chairman will development and other sustainability and responsibility matters not chair any meeting at which the Committee is considering which are an integral part of enhancing the Companys long-term the appointment of a successor to the Group Chairman.
In the selection process for new directors, the Committee can The Committees responsibilities include: consult external advisors.
An external search consultant was used ensuring that the Groups sustainability and responsibility in the selection processes prior to the appointments of Mr Peace aspirations and business activities are aligned: as an independent non-executive director, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director and Mr Mittal as an independent responding to emerging sustainability and responsibility non-executive director.
Before recommending the appointment of issues arising from external trends in sustainability, regulation, a non-executive director, the Committee considers the suitability legislation, stakeholder guidance and reporting: of a candidate against the skills, knowledge and experience reviewing new Company policies or material changes to required to produce a balanced Board.
In addition, the existing policies relating to matters of sustainability and Committee takes into account whether the candidate would responsibility, to ensure changes are in line with sustainability have an appropriate amount of time to devote to their duties.
and responsibility principles and reflect emerging trends and During the year, the Committee reviewed and was assured of developments: and the Groups succession planning processes and the succession ensuring that the Group is in a position to deliver an annual plans relating to executive directors and other senior executives Sustainability Review in line with best practice.
with continued focus on both the identification and development of a successor pool that reflects the diversity of our geographic footprint.
70 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 During the year, the Committee discussed progress against the Auditor Independence and Objectivity sustainability priority areas including the Groups response to The Company has adopted a policy on the use of non-audit services protecting the environment, responsible selling and marketing of provided by the Companys external auditor, KPMG.
The Audit and products and services, microfinance and financial inclusion, and Risk Committees pre-approval is required before the Company uses diversity and inclusion.
non-audit services that fall within definitions contained in the policy.
The non-audit services of KPMG will only be used where the The Committee ensures that the Group continues to make Company benefits in a cost-effective manner and the auditor progress in its efforts to understand and respond to the concerns maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
The Group has a formal plan for stakeholder engagement that builds on the comprehensive work In addition to audit-related services, KPMG provided the following already carried out on employee engagement and customer types of services in 2007: satisfaction.
In 2007, this plan focused at a Group level on the tax advisory and compliance: socially responsible investment analyst community, development organisations as well as on the development and environmental advice and support with due diligence exercises: departments within the UK government.
advice on IFRS accounting: The findings of this stakeholder research, alongside peer analysis regulatory reviews and reporting: and consideration of recognised sustainability benchmarks and indices are used in setting the agendas for the Committees corporate recovery services: and meetings.
risk and compliance advisory services.
Performance Evaluation Details of the amounts paid to KPMG during the year for audit The Board is responsible for ensuring that a rigorous evaluation and non-audit services are set out in note 8 to the accounts.
is carried out of its performance, and that of its committees and individual directors.
Going Concern The Board is satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to During 2007, each of the directors completed a questionnaire and continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason it supplementary interviews were held between the Chairman and continues to adopt the going concern basis when preparing the each of the non-executive directors.
The evaluation of the financial statements.
Chairman formed part of this process.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board and the Board was Internal Control satisfied that it continues to operate in an effective manner.
The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its Individual appraisals of the directors were undertaken during business and financial activities in a manner which enables it to 2007 by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Board maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks Nomination Committee as appropriate.
which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to The Board Nomination Committee and the Board Remuneration external events.
To achieve this, the Board has established a Committee each conducted a questionnaire based self-assessment process for the identification, evaluation and management of of their effectiveness.
The performance of the Audit and Risk the risks faced by the Group which operated throughout the year Committee was evaluated by an independent external assessor.
The ended 31 December 2007 and to 26 February 2008, the date Sustainability and Responsibility Committee carried out a full review of the Board approved this annual report and accounts.
It should be its remit during 2007, and as a result, revised its terms of reference.
recognised that such a process can only provide reasonable, not Relations with Shareholders absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board recognises the importance of good communications This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance shareholders and general presentations are made when the for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of financial results are announced.
The AGM is used as an Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and revised opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
The system of internal control of the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
The Combined Code requires companies send the notice of the AGM to shareholders at least 20 working days before the date The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is of the meeting.
In addition to this requirement the Company will reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, Group always give shareholders the 21 days notice required by the management, and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit and Risk Companies Act 2006 and the HK Listing Rules.
Separate Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2007 and The Company displays the proxy voting on each resolution at the reported on its review to the Board.
The Committees review was AGM and the full voting results on the Companys website.
The supported by an annual business self-certification process, which notice of AGM is also available on audio cassette and CD.
was managed by Group Internal Audit.
The Company encourages its shareholders to receive the Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and Companys corporate documents electronically.
The annual and standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures interim financial statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars across the Group through its programme of business audits.
The are all available electronically.
Shareholders are also able to vote work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM.
If you do risk as determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
not already receive your corporate documents electronically and Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit and Risk would like to do so in future please contact the Companys Committee, the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive.
Registrars at the address on page 166.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive and immediate corrective action is required.
com 71 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued The Risk Review on pages 43 to 61 describes the Groups risk Compliance with these policies and procedures is the management structure.
The Groups business is conducted responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy rewarding performance, guidance to managers was published statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This explicitly states that account should be taken that there are written policies and procedures to identify and of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including those manage risk including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit risks are escalated to senior management through clearly risk.
The Board has established a management structure that documented internal reporting procedures such as MANCO.
clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social authorities are documented and communicated.
Executive risk issues and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
committees regularly review the Groups risk profile.
The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks and The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends impact on the Groups business.
These risks are implicitly and forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets recognised in reaching lending decisions explicitly identified in and prior periods, are monitored closely.
Financial information is the Groups lending policies.
The Group has adopted the revised prepared using appropriate accounting policies, which are applied Equator Principles 2 that set procedures, based on the consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have been International Finance Corporation guidelines, for recognising the established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing environmental and social impacts and risks associated with of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
The Principles have been embedded in the include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation Groups project finance lending policy and procedures.
of accounts and the valuation of assets and positions.
The Group continues to review and, where appropriate, Compliance and Regulatory Matters strengthen its money laundering prevention policies, procedures During 2004, Standard Chartered Bank entered into a Written and training.
Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
New York State Banking Department to address deficiencies relating to compliance with applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations governing anti-money laundering.
The Bank achieved full compliance with the terms of the Written Agreement during 2007, and accordingly the Written Agreement was lifted by the regulators.
Group Code of Conduct The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this is supported by the Groups core values.
The Group Code of Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities The Group complies with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and reporting on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters and is committed to the communities and environments in which it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards of responsible business are maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
The Group has established and maintains policies and procedures in relation to SEE related risks.
Details of these policies can be found on the Companys website at: www.
Through the Groups risk management structure and control framework, the Board receives regular and adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also work with line management to assist them in designing procedures to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In every country, the Country Management Committee MANCO supported by the Country Operational Risk Group CORG is responsible for ensuring there are risk management frameworks in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The Country Chief Executives chair both the MANCOs and CORGs.
72 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007
