Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 19 Corporate governance This statement, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 24 to 29, explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied as follows: The Board The overall strategy and objectives for the Group are agreed by the Board as a whole, with the day to day management being delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors, with each Executive Director being responsible for the performance of his area of the business.
The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
However, the NonExecutive Directors have a particular role to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors, to scrutinise and challenge performance, assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls, and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior executive roles.
A Board performance evaluation exercise, which included the work of the Board Committees, was undertaken in spring 2007, led by the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
A number of matters were identified as being areas for improvement and these will be addressed during the year.
Directors The Board currently consists of five Executive and five Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent under the terms of the Combined Code.
Baroness Wilcox retired from the Board in June 2007.
The full Board met five times during the year under review and five meetings are scheduled for the current year.
The Non-Executive Directors generally meet privately with the Chairman and Chief Executive at least twice each year.
The Non-Executive Directors meet with no Executive Directors present at least once each year, inter alia to review the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Under the Companys Articles of Association one-third of the Board is subject to retirement and re-election each year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Directors have agreed that every Director will submit himself or herself for re-election at least every three years regardless of whether he or she would be required to retire by rotation under the Companys current Articles of Association.
The Board does not consider it necessary to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive at this stage of the Companys development.
The Chairman and Chief Executive has extensive experience in managing a listed company and unrivalled knowledge of the floor coverings market and the Board believes that it is in shareholders interests that he takes a leading role in running the Company.
The Chairman and Chief Executive is not a member of any Board Committee although he attends Committee meetings if invited.
All major decisions are taken after full consultation with the Non-Executive Directors, and the Senior Independent Director in particular, and in accordance with the procedures specified under the Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board.
Baroness Noakes has been the Senior Independent Director since June 2004.
Each Board member receives monthly trading results, commentary and an update on key business issues and prior to each Board meeting receives a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board covers key areas of the Companys affairs, including property and business acquisitions and disposals above a set limit, and this was reviewed during 2006 07.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
20 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings For the period to 28 April 2007 the Directors attendance at meetings was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings: 5 4 3 5 Executive Directors Lord Harris 5 M J Harris 5 I P Kenyon 5 J Kitching 5 3 C G Sollesse 5 Non-Executive Directors G Brady 1 S Metcalf 5 4 5 Baroness Noakes 5 4 3 5 M Toogood 4 4 2 G Weston 5 3 3 Baroness Wilcox 5 1 Scheduled meetings for 2007 08 5 4 2 3 Since appointment on 1 March 2007.
Mr Weston joined the Remuneration Committee in June 2006.
Baroness Wilcox left the Remuneration and Nomination Committees in June 2006 on ceasing to be considered independent on attaining nine years service and retired from the Board in June 2007.
Board Committees The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, as described below.
Executive Directors attend both the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on the request of the respective Chairman of each Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
The Terms of Reference of each Committee are available on the Companys corporate website www.
During the year the Committee memberships were as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Membership: Solelyindependent Majority independent Solelyindependent non-executives non-executives non-executives J Kitching Member S Metcalf Member Became Chairman in June 2006 Baroness Noakes Chairman Joined Committee as Member Chairman in June 2006 M Toogood Member Member G Weston Member Joined Committee in June 2006 Baroness Wilcox Chairman to June 2006 Chairman to June 2006 when left Committee when left Committee Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 21 With effect from the start of the 2007 08 financial year, Mr Brady has joined the Audit Committee in succession to Mr Toogood, who has joined the Remuneration Committee in succession to Baroness Noakes.
The Audit Committee consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Baroness Noakes, who is a qualified accountant and is considered to be suitably qualified to be the Audit Committee Chairman.
Baroness Noakes, Mr Metcalf and Mr Toogood served for the whole year.
At the year end Mr Toogood left the Committee and was succeeded by Mr Brady.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
There were also regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors at which management was not present.
In 2006 07 there were four Committee meetings, with four planned for 2007 08.
An annual calendar was used to ensure that the Committees terms of reference were fully addressed over the year.
The Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: Reviewing the Groups draft 2006 preliminary annual results announcement and financial statements and the 2006 07 interim statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: Reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the Groups accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting standards and methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions: Reviewing the effectiveness of the 2006 external audit and recommending to the Board, after due consideration, the reappointment of the external auditors at the AGM: Reviewing the application of the policy on non-audit work performed by the Groups external auditors together with the non-audit fees payable to the external auditors in 2006 07: Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2007 accounts, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: Reviewing the process for ensuring that senior management confirm that they have supplied the auditors with relevant audit information: Reviewing the internal auditors reports on the Groups systems of internal control and reporting the results of this review to the Board: and Reviewing the Executive Directors reports on key risks to the business and the work of the risk management committee and working groups.
Carpetrights policy is for the auditors to carry out mainly audit and assurance related activities.
The policy places a premium upon the auditors independence and the auditors are only allowed to undertake non-audit work if this is in line with the policy to ensure that the auditors independence has not been compromised.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the Committee undertook a form of self assessment: no significant training needs or operational omissions were identified.
The Nomination Committee comprises Baroness Noakes, Mr Toogood and Mr Weston, all independent Non-Executive Directors, and Mr Kitching.
This Committee was chaired by Baroness Wilcox until she left the Committee on ceasing to be classed as independent in June 2006 at which time Baroness Noakes joined the Committee and assumed the chair.
The Committee reviews annually the composition of the Board to ensure that at least half the Board is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors and recommends changes as necessary.
External search consultants assist in the search process for all new Board appointees and were used in the recruitment during the year of Geoff Brady, who joined the Board in March 2007.
The Nomination Committee considers the skills and competencies of the existing Directors when drawing up a specification for new appointments.
The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire by rotation should be recommended for re-appointment, and whether the appointment of Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of their three-year term should be renewed.
Committee members do not vote on their own re-appointment.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Remuneration Committees report is set out on pages 24 to 29.
22 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Internal control In accordance with the Turnbull Report the Directors are required to report on their review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys and the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness.
In order to fulfil this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The key elements of the Groups systems of internal control are as follows: Identification of business risks The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The Executive Directors Group the EDs Group, set up in 2005, has the objective of identifying and assessing risks to the Companys three-year strategy.
The EDs Group directs the UK and European Risk Management Committees, the former having been in existence for several years, to provide a risk response to each of the identified risks.
The EDs Group has provided regular reports to the Audit Committee and has considered the risk map and strategies adopted to mitigate the risks therein.
The UK Risk Management Committee structure has been revised to give better focus and now comprises a smaller number of the senior management team as regular members, who are able to call on the expertise of other managers as required.
The Committee, which meets at least quarterly, regularly reviews the risk management and control process and considers the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others and monitors the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
Additionally, the Corporate Responsibility, Business Continuity and Health and Safety Sub-Committees, each of which meet at least four times a year, report to the EDs Group.
The European Risk Management Committee consists of the European Finance and Trading Directors, together with senior Service Office managers and District Manager representatives from each country.
The Committee meets every other month, to consider all risk matters across the European operations.
Minutes are passed up to the EDs Group.
Health and Safety Enforcing the Health and Safety policy is a high priority for management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work or following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit review of all premises.
Procedures documentation Business Procedures and Systems Procedures Manuals are available to provide staff with a reliable source of reference on all Company procedures.
Procedures are reviewed regularly and updates are issued as necessary via a weekly bulletin to all stores and central departments.
Planning The Group operates a comprehensive planning system together with formal reviews and approval of annual budgets by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Key performance indicators are monitored weekly.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Where necessary, separate working parties are set up to investigate and recommend means of addressing significant areas of concern, in addition to the work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee.
The Internal Audit function undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, based on a risk analysis.
In particular, regular store audits take place at varying frequencies based upon a risk model so that audit input is commensurate with identified control risks.
An external whistle-blowing service provides an independent point of contact for any member of staff to raise concerns they are unable to raise directly with their line manager.
Concerns may be reported anonymously and feedback is given wherever possible.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 23 Monitoring and effectiveness On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by reviewing the internal audit programme and its findings, by reviewing the work of EDs Group, reviewing the half year and annual financial statements, and the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identifiable risks are closely examined so that appropriate action may be taken, or directed.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems of internal control during the year.
In particular, a Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant risks which affect the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains good communications with shareholders.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss the strategies and objectives of the Company.
Investors are welcome to meet with the Non-Executive Directors if they wish to do so and have such an opportunity at the Preliminary and Interim Announcements which are attended by the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executives.
Other arrangements are made during the year and investors have an open invitation to contact the Directors at any time.
The whole Board is briefed on any concerns raised by shareholders.
Trading updates will be issued as listed on the Calendar on page 71.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website.
Accountability and audit The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 30.
The Statement by the Auditors on their responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in their report on page 31.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 28 April 2007 and 29 April 2006 are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
Going concern The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to be a going concern for the foreseeable future.
In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Companys budget for the year ending 3 May 2008 and outline projections for the subsequent two years, including capital expenditure and cash flow forecasts.
Corporate Responsibility The Company is very aware of its responsibilities to the wider community and has published a Corporate Responsibility policy which is available on the corporate website www.
The policy includes relations with staff, shareholders and the community, trade bodies and suppliers and will be updated regularly.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period ended 28 April 2007 except provision A.
2.1 as the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, as discussed above and provision A.
3.2 as the independent Non-Executive Directors did not comprise 50% of the Board for the majority of the year although this has been rectified subsequent to the year end when Baroness Wilcox retired from the Board in June 2007.
Our auditors,  LLP, have reviewed the Directors statement on the Companys compliance to the extent required by the listing rules and their report appears on page 31.
