Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee meetings and one nomination The Board attaches great importance to ensuring committee meeting held during the year and the that the Company operates to high ethical and attendance by the directors was as follows: compliance standards.
In addition, the Board seeks to observe the principles set out in the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, established Number of meetings attended specifically for investment trust companies and Audit Nomination endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council in Board Committee Committee February 2006.
By following the Code, the Company continues to meet its obligations in John Reeve 7 2 1 relation to the FRCs Combined Code on Gary Allen 2 Corporate Governance.
June fide Moller 7 2 1 The Code provides a guide to best practice in Richard Jewson 7 2 1 certain areas of governance where the specific Martin Riley 6 1 1 characteristics of investment trusts suggest that Field Walton 7 2 1 alternative approaches to those set out in the Combined Code may be preferable.
retired 24 September 2007 COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE Independence of the Directors AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Each of the directors is independent of any Operation of the Board association with the management company and has no other relationships or circumstances Each of the directors is independent of any which might be perceived to interfere with the association with the management company exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the which might interfere with the exercise of five directors Mr Reeve and Mr Walton have independent judgement.
There is a formal served on the Board for more than nine years schedule of matters to be specifically approved from the date of their first election, but given the by the Board and individual directors may seek nature of the Company as an investment trust independent advice at the expense of the and the strongly independent mindset of the Company within certain limits.
The Board has individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the delegated the investment management, within view that all of the directors can be considered clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, to be independent.
In arriving at this conclusion and the administration of the business to the Board makes a clear distinction between the Investec Investment Management Limited IIM.
activities of an investment trust and a The Board makes all strategic decisions, reviews conventional trading company.
An investment the performance of the Company at Board trust has no employees or executive directors, meetings and sets the objectives for the the only significant relationship being with the Managers.
The directors have a range of business management company.
In overseeing this and financial skills or experience relevant to the relationship it is the view of the Board that long direction of the Company.
Mr R W Jewson is the service aids the understanding, judgement, Senior Independent Director.
objectivity and independence of the directors The Company Secretary is responsible to the and in no way detracts from any of these Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board qualities.
procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable rules and regulations including the AIC Re-election of directors Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated Directors are subject to re-election by representative of the Corporate Company shareholders at the first AGM following their Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter appointment and, thereafter, are subject to for the Board as a whole.
retirement by rotation at intervals of no more The content and presentation of Board papers than three years.
In addition, the appointment of circulated before each meeting contain sufficient each director is reviewed by other members of information on the financial condition of the the Board every year.
Key representatives of IIM attend each therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Board meeting enabling directors to probe on Non-executive directors are not appointed for matters of concern or seek clarification on specified terms.
Because of the nature of an certain issues.
investment trust the Board believes that the contribution and independence of a director is Temple Bar Investment Trust 23 Corporate governance continued not diminished by long service and, conversely, Board Audit Committee Nomination that a more detailed knowledge of the Company Committee Director ongoing evaluation and its business has a beneficial impact.
On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its The directors due to stand for re-election at the performance, together with that of the audit and forthcoming AGM are Mr Jewson, Mr Riley, Mr nomination committees and the effectiveness Reeve and Mr Walton.
The Board has carefully and contribution of the individual directors, considered the position of each of these including the Chairman, within the context of directors and believes it would be appropriate for service on those bodies.
The review encompasses them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the an assessment of how cohesively these bodies directors continues to be effective and to display work as a whole as well as the performance of an undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the individuals within them.
On the basis of these the role.
reviews the Board has concluded that it has a proper balance of skills and is operating Audit Committee effectively.
The audit committee is a formally constituted Relations with Shareholders committee of the Board with defined terms of reference which are available for inspection at Shareholder relations are given high priority by the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered both the Board and the Manager.
The principal Office of the Company.
It normally meets twice medium by which the Company communicates yearly and among its specific responsibilities are with shareholders is through the interim and a review of the audit plan for the year, the annual reports.
The information contained review of the Companys annual and half yearly therein is supplemented by regular NAV results, together with associated documentation, announcements and by a monthly factsheet and the review of the internal and financial available on the Companys website.
controls applicable to the management The Board largely delegates responsibility for company.
The Committee also reviews the cost communication with shareholders to the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of management company and, through feedback, the auditors with particular regard to non-audit expects to be able to develop an understanding fees, of which there were none in either the of their views.
The current shareholding current or prior financial years.
All of the constituency of the Company is such that there directors are members of the audit committee is only one major shareholder.
All members of and the Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The auditors, the Board are willing to meet with shareholders who the Board has identified as being at any time for the purpose of discussing matters independent, are invited to attend the audit in relation to the operation and prospects of the committee meeting at which the annual Company.
accounts are considered and any other meetings The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM that the committee deem necessary.
and encourages questions and discussion on Nomination Committee issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements have been A nomination committee has been established to established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme oversee a formal review procedure governing the investors to participate fully at Annual General appointment of new directors and to evaluate the Meetings.
A separate resolution will be proposed overall composition of the Board from time to at the AGM in respect of each substantially time, taking into account the existing balance of separate issue.
Following the formal AGM skills and knowledge.
proceedings the Manager makes a presentation The committee is also responsible for assessing to the meeting outlining the key investment the individual performance of directors and for issues that face the Company.
making recommendations as to whether they should remain in office.
This committee is chaired Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit by Mr Reeve.
The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all documents released by the Group and the Remuneration Committee Company, including the Annual Report, present a As all the directors are fully independent of the fair and accurate assessment of the Group and management company, the board as a whole the Companys position and prospects.
fulfils the function of a remuneration committee.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the 24 Temple Bar Investment Trust Company has adequate resources to continue in companies on matters such as the environment operational existence for the foreseeable future, or society as a whole, the ultimate objective is to including recourse to a 25 million overdraft deliver superior investment returns for facility with HSBC Bank.
directors continue to adopt the going concern Exercise of Voting Rights basis in preparing the accounts.
The Managers have been instructed to vote on The directors are responsible for the Group and behalf of the Company in accordance with the Companys system of internal control and for recommendations put forward by the National reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the the control process the Board has requested the Managers wish to vote in a different way to the Managers to confirm annually that they have recommendation of the NAPF this requires the conducted the Group and the Companys affairs specific approval of the Board.
in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Group and the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within Investec which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal control matters and does not believe that there is scope or necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that employed by the Manager.
Based on the foregoing the Group and the Company has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined Code.
Socially Responsible Investment The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in the best financial interests of the Company and its shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the ethical stance of investee Temple Bar Investment Trust 25
