22 Corporate Governance Introduction Board meetings The Board of Directors recognises the importance of high standards of The Board meets formally at least six times a year, with additional meetings corporate governance.
This Report and the Remuneration Report set out on as required.
The Board met formally seven times during the period including pages 25 to 30 explain that the Company has complied during the period with a strategy day.
All Directors formally attended these meetings with the the principles contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance exception of Steven Esom and Andrew Harrison who were both absent from Code except as stated to the contrary in this Report.
In accordance with the the meeting held on 25 May 2006, Jim Dale who was absent from the meeting Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, the relevant parts of held on 25 January 2007 and David Ross who was absent from the meeting this Report have been reviewed by the auditors and their opinion is contained on 29 March 2007.
These absences were due to prior engagements that in the Independent Auditors Report on page 33. could not be changed with the exception of Jim Dale who had to attend a family funeral.
The Company Secretary ensures that all Board papers are sent Board of Directors out to non-attending Directors and that, where possible, any comments they Composition of the Board have are received beforehand so that they can be expressed at the meeting.
There are currently five Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors including the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Deputy Operation of the Board Chairman.
Biographies of each of the Directors, their responsibilities and The wide range of experience and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors, Board Committee memberships are set out on page 21. combined with the skill sets of the Executive Directors, provides vast experience of retailing, mobile and xed line telecommunications and general business The following changes to the Board have taken place since last years experience, strong personal skills and independence of thought and perspective.
Annual Report: The overriding responsibility of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial and The appointment of Andrew Harrison as an Executive Director together with the responsible leadership to the Group within a framework of prudent and effective appointments of Baroness Morgan, Steven Esom and David Manseld all as controls.
These controls allow for the key issues and risks facing the business to Non-Executive Directors were approved at the Annual General Meeting held on be assessed and managed.
The Board determines the overall strategic direction 27 July 2006. for the Group, reviews management performance and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the Group to Between the period of 2 April 2006 and 24 April 2007 the Board comprised meet its objectives.
The Board is comfortable that the necessary controls and five Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors including the resources exist within the Group to enable these responsibilities to be met.
The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
All of the Board ensures that the Directors, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and Deputy Chairman were develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the considered to be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company regularly communicates with major shareholders and period from 2 April 2006 and 24 April 2007 half of the Board, excluding the has a dedicated internal investor relations department.
Briengs on market Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, were activity, together with the views of shareholders and analysts on the Company, Independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the Code.
These were Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, David Manseld, Steven Esom and Adrian are also regularly provided to the Board.
On 24 April 2007, the Company announced the appointment of David There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities between the roles Grigson as a Non-Executive Director with immediate effect, meaning the Board of the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer.
There are also documented then comprised five Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors.
schedules of matters reserved to the Board and matters delegated to The appointment of David Grigson will be proposed to the shareholders at the Committees of the Board.
Such reserved matters include decisions on strategic Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 July 2007 AGM and he is also and policy issues, the approval of published financial statements and major considered to be an Independent Director.
acquisitions and disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury and risk On 5 June 2007, the Company announced that Jim Dale would stand down management policies.
Strategic and policy issues are reviewed annually at as a Director of the Company with immediate effect.
a combined Board and senior executive strategy day.
Following all of the above changes to the Board and as from the AGM, the Performance evaluation Board will comprise four Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors During the period the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the including the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
The Board, and each individual Director, also Six of these Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Non-Executive Chairman undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs Suggestions for Good and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, are considered to be Independent Practice as guidance, the individual Directors initially completed separate Non-Executive Directors.
These are Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, questionnaires.
The results were collated and analysed by the Company David Manseld, Steven Esom, Adrian Martin and David Grigson.
Secretary, who prepared reports as appropriate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive officer and the Board as a whole.
Charles Dunstone is the Chief Executive officer, John Gildersleeve is The areas covered included the role of the Executive and Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman, David Ross is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Directors, the Board, the Board Committees, the Chairman of the Company, and Sir Brian Pitman is the Senior Independent Director.
preparation for and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of each All new Directors went through a formal process of induction principally carried Director, leadership, culture and corporate governance.
The results were then out by the Company Secretary.
All Directors are subject to election by considered by the Board as a specic item of business.
The Board proposes shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and that these exercises or similar ones continue to be carried out each year.
thereafter to re-election at least every three years.
Each Executive Director Following such performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that all those and David Ross has a service contract that can be terminated by either the Non-Executive Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM continue to Company or the Director on 12 months notice or less.
be effective and demonstrate a commitment to the role, including having time The Non-Executive Directors, apart from David Ross, have three year periods to attend all necessary meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
of appointment, the terms of which are substantially in the same format as suggested by the Code, with three month notice periods and no compensation The Chairman meets regularly with all the Independent Non-Executive Directors for loss of ofce.
Further details on each Directors remuneration, including the usually in the evening prior to a Board meeting.
This provides the opportunity dates of their contracts with the Company, are set out in the Remuneration to raise any questions regarding the performance of the Executive Directors or Report on pages 25 to 30. in respect of any other matters.
7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Governance Financial Statements 23 The Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive Directors, in review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness, having the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK first reviewed the results of a performance evaluation questionnaire completed professional and regulatory requirements: and by all the Directors apart from the Chairman.
The Board is of the opinion that review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to the Chairman had no other significant commitments during the period that supply non-audit services.
In this context the Committees remit requires it would have affected his performance in his role.
to report to the Board identifying any matters in respect of which it considers External appointments that action or improvement is needed and to make recommendations as to The Board supports Executive Directors taking up Non-Executive Directorships the steps to be taken.
as part of their continued development, and the Board believes that this will In the light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Committee ultimately benefit the Company.
Further details are provided in the recommended to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be retained as Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30. auditors of the Company.
This recommendation was endorsed by the Board.
Board Committees The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external There are five key Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, auditors species the types of work from which the external auditors are Insurance Compliance and Telecoms Regulatory, the last two Committees excluded: for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral to having been created during the period.
The Committees are provided with the Committee: and for which a case-by-case decision is required.
In order to sufficient resources via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio of non-audit direct access to independent professional advisors to undertake their duties.
fees to audit fees is monitored by the Committee within an overall limit set by Audit Committee the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
The Committee currently comprises the following Independent Non-Executive A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external auditors Directors: Adrian Martin Chairman, Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, David Manseld, Steven Esom and, following his appointment on 24 April during the period is set out below: 2007, David Grigson.
Both Adrian Martin and David Grigson are deemed by 2007 2006 the Board to be the Committee members with recent and relevant financial 000 000 experience.
All of the Committee members have extensive commercial Audit services: experience.
The Committee met formally four times during the period.
statutory audit 1,375 1,115 All members attended each meeting, with the exception of Sir Brian Pitman non-statutory audit 14 who was absent from the meeting on 26 October 2006 due to a prior engagement that could not be changed and David Grigson, who was Tax services: only appointed on 24 April 2007. compliance services 7 The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board on any significant issues advisory services 117 115 that may have arisen at the Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
Other services 53 22 During the period, all the requirements of the Code in respect of the Committee Total 1,545 1,273 were met.
The work undertaken by the Committee is described within the following sections of this Report.
Certain non-audit services are pre-approved by the Committee depending upon the nature and size of the service.
Tax services comprise compliance The Groups Chief Financial officer and other senior management attend services and technical advice associated with relevant UK and international Committee meetings by invitation of the Committee.
Representatives of the scal laws and regulations and, in particular, assessment of the potential Companys external auditors and the Group Director of Risk also attend these implications of proposed corporate transactions or restructuring.
meetings by invitation of the Committee.
The external and internal auditors have direct access to the Committee during formal meetings and time is set Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related work, the Committee has aside for them to have private discussions with the Committee, in the absence satisfied itself that the services undertaken during the period did not prejudice of management.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and considered reports from Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website, comply with the Group Director of Risk on the status of the Groups risk management the Code.
During the period, the formal calendar of items considered at each systems, findings from the internal audit function concerning internal controls, Audit Committee meeting within each annual cycle embraced the Code and reports on the status of any weaknesses in internal controls identied by requirements to: the internal or external auditors.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and any Remuneration Committee formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, The Committee currently comprises the following independent Non-Executive including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained Directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, Baroness Morgan, David Manseld, in them: Steven Esom, Adrian Martin, and, following his appointment on 24 April 2007, review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control and David Grigson.
risk management systems and to make recommendations to the Board: The Committee met formally five times during the period and each member, review the Companys arrangements by which employees may raise except David Grigson who was only appointed on 24 April 2007, attended concerns in confidence: every meeting with the exception of Steven Esom who was absent from the meeting on 26 May 2006 and Baroness Morgan who was absent from the monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: meeting on 28 September 2006.
Both absences were due to prior make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, engagements that could not be changed.
The Company Secretary ensures that re-appointment and removal of external auditors and to approve all Committee papers are sent out to non-attending Directors and that, where their remuneration and terms of engagement: possible, any comments they have are received beforehand so that they can www.
com 24 Corporate Governance continued be expressed at the meeting.
Other Directors, the Company Secretary, and reviews within each of the main operating divisions in the past year, the Group Director of Human Resources, the Head of Compensation and culminating in an assessment of key business risks by the Executive Directors Benets and advisors attended by invitation only.
A detailed description and senior management.
These risk assessments have been wide-ranging, of the Committees remit and work during the period is contained in the covering risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, counter-parties Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30.
Its terms of reference comply with and organisational change associated both with major projects and with the Code, are available on request from the Company Secretary and are acquisitions.
The risk management process operates throughout the Company, published on the Companys website.
The Chairman of the Committee being applied equally to the main business divisions and corporate functions.
updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The output from each annual assessment is a list of key strategic, financial, Nomination Committee operational and compliance risks.
Associated action plans and controls to During the period the Committee comprised the following Non-Executive mitigate them are also put in place where this is possible and to the extent Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, David Ross, Sir Brian Pitman and considered appropriate by the Board taking account of costs and benets.
The Committee meets as and when required and met once Changes in the status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix are formally during the period to discuss succession planning and a consideration reported regularly to the Audit Committee and at each Board Meeting.
of appropriate appointments to the Board.
The Committee also met in April The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal 2007 where it considered and recommended that David Grigson be appointed control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Spencer Stuart was used as an management the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring these external search consultancy for the appointment of future Independent Nonsystems.
The systems are based on a process of identifying, evaluating and Executive Directors and their work was carried out in conjunction with potential managing key risks and include the risk management processes set out above.
candidates sourced by the Group directly.
In April 2007 the appointment of The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period and up to the David Grigson was then unanimously approved by the Board.
date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The effectiveness The Committees terms of reference comply with the Code and are available of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance from the Company Secretary on request and are published on the Companys with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
These systems are also rened as website.
The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, regularly reviewing the The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate structure, size and composition of the Board and making its recommendations the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide to the Board.
It assists in evaluating the commitments of individual Directors reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
or breaches of laws and regulations.
Insurance Compliance Committee The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems The Committee is chaired by Baroness Morgan and is attended by Adrian of risk management and internal control in operation during the year and up to Martin and senior executives.
The role of the Committee is to review the the date of the approval of the Annual Report and financial statements and this Groups compliance with regulatory matters concerning the sale of insurance was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
products to customers and to provide the Non-Executive Directors, through Baroness Morgan, with visibility of compliance issues.
The Committee met Communication with investors formally three times during the period.
The Chairman of the Committee also The Board believes it is important to explain business developments and updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
The principal communication media used to impart Telecoms Regulatory Committee information to shareholders are news releases including results The Committee is chaired by David Manseld and is attended by David Goldie, announcements and Company publications.
In all such communications, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
The role of the Committee care is taken to ensure that no price sensitive information is released.
is to review the Groups compliance with xed line regulatory matters, consumer The Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have lead responsibility regulation across the xed and mobile businesses including Trading Standards, for investor relations.
They are supported by a dedicated investor relations Data Protection and Advertising Standards, and to provide the Non-Executive department that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts Directors, through David Manseld, with visibility of these compliance issues.
There is a full programme of regular dialogue with The Committee met formally twice during the period.
The Chairman of the major institutional shareholders, fund managers, analysts, retail brokers and Committee also updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
credit investors, upon which the Chairman ensures that the Board receives Other Committees regular updates at Board meetings.
The Board also receives periodic reports The Company also intends to create a new Group Finance Committee during on investors views of the performance of the Company.
All the Non-Executive the next year to formalise the regular meetings held between senior executives Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, are of the group finance, tax, treasury and legal departments.
Further details will be available to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
provided in next years Annual Report.
Further financial and business information is available on the Companys website, www.
Risk management and internal control The Company has established a risk management programme that assists The Company also communicates with shareholders through the Annual management throughout the Company to identify, assess and mitigate General Meeting, at which the Chairman gives an account of the progress of business, financial, operational and compliance risks.
The Board views the business over the last year, and a review of current issues, and provides management of risk as integral to good business practice.
The programme the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
is designed to support managements decision-making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
The risk management programme is supported by a dedicated team of risk specialists, including internal auditors, who comprise the Group Risk and Assurance function.
To ensure that all parts of the Company have a good understanding of risk, members of this team have conducted risk workshops 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
