Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the The directors biographies demonstrate Board administration corporate governance of the Group.
a range of experience and sufficient The Board has a schedule of eight They support the principles of good calibre to bring independent judgement meetings each year to discuss the corporate governance and code of best on issues of strategy, performance, Groups ordinary course of business.
practice laid down by the Revised resources and standards of conduct Every effort is made to arrange these Combined Code issued in 2006. which is vital to the success of the Group.
meetings so that all directors can The Board is responsible to shareholders attend: additional meetings are Throughout the year ended 31 December for the proper management of the arranged as required.
2007 the Board believes it has complied Group.
A Statement of the Directors with the principles and provisions Responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Board and its committees are recommended by the Revised Combined is set out on page 28, and a statement provided with appropriate information Code.
on going concern is set out below.
on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Board has a The manner in which the Company The Board has established Audit, formal schedule of matters reserved to has applied the principles of good Remuneration and Nominations it for decision, including, among other governance set out in the Revised Committees to which it has delegated things, developing the future direction Combined Code during 2007 is some of its responsibilities.
Each of of the Groups business, agreeing outlined below.
the committees has detailed terms policies and procedures, approving of reference, which can be viewed material transactions, budgets and Directors on the Companys website borrowings and monitoring the Groups The Board currently comprises two www.
All directors receive written executive directors, four non-executive schedule of business to be transacted reports prior to each Board meeting directors and the Chairman, whose during the year.
The responsibilities of which enable them to make an biographies are set out on page 13. each of the committees together with informed decision on corporate and All of the non-executive directors are an overview of their meetings during business issues under review.
All Board considered to be independent under the year are described below.
meetings are minuted and any any of the relevant codes and regulations.
unresolved concerns are recorded in In addition to the above the Chairman such minutes.
Beneath the Board there The Chairmans role under the Companys met with the non-executive directors is a structure of delegated authority arrangements is as a non-executive without the executive directors being which sets out the authority levels and the current Chairman, Keith Hamill present and the Senior Independent allocated to the individual directors and was, at appointment, independent Non-executive Director met with the senior management.
of the Company and the management.
other non-executive directors without The Chairman is responsible for the the Chairman being present to evaluate The terms of the directors service conduct of the Board and its oversight the Chairmans performance.
Appropriate agreements and letters of appointment of the Companys affairs and strategy feedback was provided following these are summarised in the Report on and the administration of the Board.
The Chairman has also Directors Remuneration set out The Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is provided appropriate feedback to the on page 27.
All directors are subject responsible for the management of non-executive directors.
to election by shareholders at the the business, the co-ordination of its first Annual General Meeting after activities and the development of their appointment.
David Clark succeeded John Spencer as Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director on 18 June 2007.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director has responsibility for dealing The Board and committee attendance record during 2007 of the directors who held with any shareholders who have concerns, office at the end of the year is as follows: which contact through the normal Audit Remuneration Nominations channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Board Committee Committee Committee or Finance Director has failed to Executive Directors resolve, or for which such contact is Terry Smith 8 8 inappropriate.
The Board believes that Paul Mainwaring 8 8 these arrangements facilitate the effective management of the business Non-executive Directors and provide a strong control Keith Hamill 8 8 4 4 1 1 environment.
David Clark 8 8 5 5 4 4 1 1 Michael Fallon 8 8 4 5 4 4 1 1 Richard Kilsby 8 8 5 5 3 4 0 1 Rupert Robson 7 8 5 5 4 4 excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to complete business approved by the Board or routine business.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 19 Corporate Governance Report continued director who has held office for three All directors have access to the services During the year the Audit Committee years or more is required to retire by of the Company Secretary and there are reviewed the cost effectiveness, rotation at the Annual General Meeting procedures in place for taking objectivity and independence of the but is entitled to seek re-election.
Paul independent professional advice at the external auditors and the level of fees Mainwaring and Rupert Robson were Companys expense if required.
The received in respect of the various appointed directors in October 2006 and Company arranges insurance cover in services provided by them in addition to January 2007 respectively and were respect of legal action against the the audit during 2007.
The auditors subsequently elected by shareholders at directors.
The Company Secretary is confirmed to the Audit Committee that the Annual General Meeting in June 2007. responsible for ensuring that the Board they did not believe that the level of keeps up to date with key changes in non-audit fees had affected their Reviews of the performance of the legislation which affect the Company.
The Audit Committee Board, its committees and individual The appointment or removal of the additionally considered the professional directors in respect of the previous Company Secretary is a matter reserved and regulatory guidance on auditor financial year have been undertaken.
independence and was satisfied with In this process, consideration was given the auditors representations.
The Audit to whether the Board or committee Audit Committee Committees policy is to use the most fulfilled its terms of reference The Audit Committee is chaired by appropriate advisers for non-audit satisfactorily, whether the terms of Richard Kilsby, who has recent and work, taking account of the need to reference needed to be revised, whether relevant financial experience.
the administration operated effectively members of the Audit Committee are and whether individual directors David Clark, Michael Fallon and Rupert The Audit Committee is responsible for performed their roles effectively.
The Robson, all of whom are Independent reviewing the interim and preliminary non-executive directors are responsible Non-executive Directors.
announcements of results and the for assessing the effectiveness of the statutory accounts prior to their approval Chairman in his absence.
David Clark, The Companys external auditors, the by the Board.
When conducting the Michael Fallon and Richard Kilsby will executive directors and the heads of Risk review, the Committee considers the seek re-election at the AGM in May 2008: Control and Internal Audit may attend continuing appropriateness of the the Board is satisfied that, following Committee meetings by invitation.
The accounting policies, judgements made formal performance evaluation, each of Committee has a discussion with the in the production of the numbers these directors performance continues external auditors at least once a year and the adequacy and appropriateness to be effective, and each demonstrates without executive directors being of disclosures.
present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
The Committee has reviewed In the event that any of the executive arrangements by which staff may, directors wished to take up a nonThroughout 2007 the Committees in confidence, raise concerns about executive appointment with another terms of reference included monitoring improprieties in matters of financial company, the Board would be the integrity of the financial statements, reporting or other matters.
In conducting amenable to such a proposal, provided reviewing the scope and findings of the review, the Committee also took that the time commitment involved the external audit, assessing the into account whether the policies were would not be too onerous.
Following independence and objectivity of the in line with the recommendations set the demerger of Collins Stewart plc on external auditors and making out in CP101 published by the Financial 19 December 2006, Terry Smith became recommendations for the re-appointment Services Authority.
Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
In that or removal of the external auditors, capacity, Mr Smiths annual fee is monitoring the internal audit function, The Audit Committee received reports 200,000, which he is entitled to retain.
reviewing the effectiveness of the from the internal audit function during Companys internal control procedures, the year and reviewed the schedule of The terms and conditions of overseeing and assessing the risk control work proposed by the internal audit appointment of the non-executive system and reviewing arrangements department, the resources available to directors will be available for inspection by which staff may, in confidence, carry out the schedule and key findings.
during normal business hours on any raise concerns about improprieties.
A system of reporting to follow up on weekday other than public holidays at all matters raised by both internal and the Companys offices from the date external audit was taken into account the notice of Annual General Meeting is in assessing the effectiveness of the posted until the conclusion of the internal audit function.
20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 The terms of reference of the Audit The Nominations Committee is The key risks facing the business are Committee will be available for inspection responsible for proposing candidates described in the Business Review.
These during normal business hours on any for appointment to the Board, having risks are assessed before any new weekday other than public holidays regard to the balance of skills, business is established and monitored at the Companys offices from the date knowledge and experience of the Board.
on a day to day basis as part of the the notice of Annual General Meeting The Nominations Committee also normal management process.
The Group is posted until the conclusion of the has responsibility for agreeing and has adopted a single set of policies for Annual General Meeting, and are also implementing procedures for the the management of risk to be applied available on the Companys website.
selection of new Board appointments, across all activities, and assesses and for reviewing candidate specifications monitors risk through the use of a The Audit Committee met five times and making recommendations to the Risk Assessment Framework, which is during 2007.
Board on all proposed new appointments considered by the Board on a regular basis.
and on any proposed re-election of an Remuneration Committee existing director.
Risk management and the operation of The Remuneration Committee comprises the internal control systems within the Michael Fallon, who is the Committees For non-executive appointments, Group are primarily the responsibility Chairman, David Clark, Richard Kilsby, the Committee also considers the of the executive directors and the Keith Hamill and Rupert Robson.
time commitment involved in the senior management.
These individuals The Board has delegated the following appointment in arriving at its decision, are allowed commercial independence responsibilities to the Remuneration and this is included in all new letters and flexibility within parameters Committee: agreeing the remuneration of appointment.
agreed by the Board to ensure that risks of the executive directors and the are clearly owned and managed on a Chairman, recommending and The terms of reference of the Nominations day to day basis and that systems of monitoring the level and structure of Committee will be available for control operate effectively.
remuneration of senior management inspection during normal business and granting share options under the hours on any week day other than Under the overall supervision of the Companys share option schemes.
public holidays at the Companys offices Board and the Chief Executive, the from the date the notice of Annual management team continue to The Chief Executive attends certain General Meeting is posted until the implement their business development parts of meetings of the Remuneration conclusion of the Annual General plans and monitor operational projects.
The Chairman Meeting and are also available on the The executive directors monitor does not attend meetings where his Companys website.
activities on a daily basis and ensure own remuneration is being discussed.
that appropriate controls are exercised Further details of the Companys policies The Nominations Committee met over the Groups operations.
The Board on remuneration, service contracts and once during the year, to propose the considers the monthly management share options are given in the Report appointment of Rupert Robson to accounts, budgets and plans and on Directors Remuneration.
discusses any issues arising therefrom.
of reference of the Remuneration Committee will be available for inspection Risk management and internal control The Risk and Treasury Committee is during normal business hours on any The Board is responsible for setting the responsible for developing policies and week day other than public holidays Groups risk appetite and ensuring that monitoring mechanisms which ensure at the Companys offices from the date it has an appropriate and effective risk that the Group operates in accordance the notice of Annual General Meeting management framework and monitors with the Boards risk appetite.
The Head is posted until the conclusion of the the ongoing process for identifying, of Group Risk Control reports to the Annual General Meeting, and are also evaluating, managing and reporting Finance Director.
The members of the available on the Companys website.
the significant risks faced by the Group.
Risk Committee are the Chief Executive, The Board is also responsible for the who acts as chairman, the Finance The Remuneration Committee met four Groups system of internal control Director and the Head of Group Risk times during 2007. and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The minutes of the Risk and In discharging its responsibilities in Treasury Committee are circulated to Nominations Committee this respect, the Board has appointed the Board.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Audit Committee to carry out the Keith Hamill, who is the Committees annual review of the effectiveness of The systems of internal control operated Chairman, David Clark, Michael Fallon, the internal control and risk management by the Group are designed to manage Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson.
The systems and to report to the Board rather than eliminate risk of failure terms of reference of the Nominations thereon.
This process has been in place to achieve business objectives, and Committee provide that the Chairman for the year under review and up to the can only provide reasonable and not of the Board would not be permitted to date of approval of the annual report, absolute assurance against material chair the Committee if it were dealing is reviewed regularly by the Board and misstatement or loss.
with the issue of his replacement.
accords with the Turnbull guidance appended to the Revised Combined Code.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 21 Corporate Governance Report continued A Group Risk Control team, which forms The Group is regulated by the Financial Relations with shareholders part of the embedded risk management Services Authority.
During the year the The Board recognises the importance process, is responsible for ensuring Company ensured that its controls were of communication with shareholders.
that the Risk Committee, executive consistent with the Integrated Prudential The Companys website, directors and senior management Source Book.
com, provides receive appropriate information and Authority changed the methodology information for shareholders on the exception reports to comply with the for the calculation of regulatory capital Groups activities, announcements, Groups risk management principles with the introduction of the Capital products and recent developments.
and policies for maintaining the Groups Requirements Directive in 2007.
The reports Group continues to maintain excesses There is regular dialogue with provided cover, inter alia, the current of regulatory capital in all its regulated institutional investors, fund managers status of existing controls, audits, loss entities and also at the Group level and and analysts, including presentations events, and any required action plans does not envisage any difficulties arising around the time of the results to remedy any identified shortcomings from any changes to be introduced announcements and also on request.
to the regulation of its businesses.
Following formal presentations to shareholders, the Companys brokers The Group has investments in a number The Board has put in place an Internal additionally provide feedback to the of joint ventures and associated companies.
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, Board from shareholders.
The Chairman Where the Group is not directly involved as required by the Financial Services maintains informal relations with in the management of the investment, Authority.
shareholders when necessary and is it can influence, through Board available to those shareholders who representation, but not control, the Internal audit have a policy of regular contact or who internal control systems present The Board has appointed wish to discuss specific matters.
The Boards review  to act as Senior Independent Non-executive of the effectiveness of the system of its internal auditor, following an Director and the other non-executive internal controls in those entities is extensive review of internal audit directors are available to meet with consequently less comprehensive than arrangements carried out during 2007. shareholders, should such meetings in its directly owned subsidiaries.
as the Groups internal auditor, are to The Audit Committee conducted a assess the effectiveness of the Groups The Business Review on pages 4 to 12, formal review of the effectiveness of risk management, internal controls which is incorporated by reference into the Groups internal control systems and governance process: to ascertain the Report of the Directors, includes a for 2007, considering reports from whether financial and operational detailed review of the business and management and the work of the Risk controls are appropriate and consistently future developments.
The review applied: to test the effectiveness of covered all key controls, including internal controls for the safeguarding The Board uses the Annual General financial, operational and compliance of assets: to assess the reliability and Meeting to communicate with investors controls, as well as the Groups risk integrity of management information: and welcomes their participation.
The findings and to ensure the adequacy of processes Notice of the Annual General Meeting, of the review were reported to and to ensure compliance with applicable laws and related papers, are sent to considered by the Board.
 shareholders at least 20 working days report their findings and make before the meeting.
The Chairman aims Compliance recommendations to the Audit Committee to ensure that all of the directors, The Group has a compliance function on a regular basis.
including Chairmen of the Committees which ensures that all the Groups of the Board, are available at Annual entities meet the rules of the regulators Going concern General Meetings to answer questions in each of the jurisdictions in which the The directors have satisfied themselves, and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes Group operates.
The compliance at the time of approving the financial cast on each resolution proposed at officers are in regular contact with the statements, that the Group has adequate general meetings are disclosed at those executive directors and report to the resources to continue in operational meetings.
To encourage shareholder Risk Committee, the Audit Committee existence for the foreseeable future, participation, those shareholders and the Board as appropriate.
and for this reason the financial whose shares are held via the CREST statements are prepared on a going system are offered the facility to submit concern basis.
their proxy votes via CREST.
22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007
