Corporate Governance Background of parameters for and the monitoring of investment strategy, the The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose review of investment performance and the extent to which how they have applied the principles and complied with the borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive officer is provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance responsible to the Board for the overall management of the the Code.
His duties include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the investment managers and their terms of reference, on the use of Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the derivatives and for all other aspects of the Companys affairs, Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
In addition, the AIC including shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the Association of industry matters, administration and the unquoted investments.
Investment Companies in May 2007, applies to the Company The Chief Executive officer reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes conrmation from each of the investment managers that they have carried out their duties in accordance Application of the Principles of the Code with the terms of their investment mandates and conrmation The Company is committed to high standards of corporate that the Boards investment limits and restrictions have been governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set adhered to, including those which govern the Companys tax out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an status as an investment trust.
The investment managers take investment trust company, many of the Companys day to day decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all but one of and are responsible for effecting those decisions on the best the directors are non-executive.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely manner, with management, The Board regulatory and financial information that is clear, accurate and The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
relevant, whether from the Chief Executive officer or otherwise.
Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
Representatives of the investment managers attend Board meetings on a regular basis, enabling the directors to monitor the The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the management of the Companys assets, to seek clarification on Companys memorandum and articles of association, and to such specic issues or to probe further on any points of concern.
approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board have from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The directors The Board currently consists of eight directors, all of whom are have access to the advice and services of the corporate company independent of the Companys various investment managers.
secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible With the sole exception of the Chief Executive officer, the to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Their biographical details, set out When a director is appointed he or she is offered a tailored on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, introductory programme.
Directors are also provided, on a commercial and professional experience with an international regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, perspective.
regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the most Board as they arise.
Directors are encouraged to attend suitable important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting training courses on an ongoing basis at the Companys expense.
28 Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election Board Committees and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Companys Articles of Association, new directors stand for The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for the duties election at the first annual general meeting following their of the Boards former Nominations Committee.
The duties of the appointment.
The Board has agreed that every director will stand former Management Engagement Committee are now the for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The responsibility of the Chief Executive officer.
The membership of Boards report on the independence of the directors is set out on the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is set pages 21 and 22. out on pages 2 and 22.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Audit Committee Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 32. appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors Remuneration Committee retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their The Committee comprises three non-executive directors commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience The Committee held four meetings during the year.
Its of various areas, the most important skill-sets being investment programme is to meet at least once a year, in advance of the year management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk end, and on other occasions as necessary.
management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and The Boards procedure in 2007 for evaluating the performance of review the Companys remuneration policy, to establish the the Board, its Committees and the individual directors was by incentive arrangements for, and to evaluate the performance of, means of individual meetings of the Chairman with each of the the Chief Executive officer, to assess the effectiveness of the directors.
A meeting of the directors was then held, without the Board and to consider the remuneration of the non-executive Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
It is also responsible for reviewing the composition of process is designed to show whether individual directors the Board and for proposing nominations for appointment to it.
continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to clarify the Each director is invited to submit nominations and external strengths and weaknesses of the Boards composition and advisers may be used to identify or assess potential candidates.
The Chairman has taken the lead in acting on the The nominations list is considered by the Board as a whole, results of the evaluation process, mindful of the requirement to although the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the refresh the composition of the Board from time to time without selection of his successor.
reducing the stability, sense of purpose and effectiveness of the Board that was highlighted by the evaluation process.
Two Board appointments were made early in 2007.
The directors reviewed the skills and experience required of potential new The Chairman of the Company is an independent director.
The Remuneration Committee, assisted by a specialist Mr Watson was appointed Senior Independent Director on rm of search consultants, Trust Associates Limited, prepared a 5 February 2008, after the year end.
Nevertheless, the Board short list of candidates and made a recommendation to the considers that, by design, the directors have different qualities Board.
The Board accepted the recommendations and its two and areas of expertise on which they may lead when issues arise.
invitations to join the Board were both accepted.
In addition, the Board has appointed separate chairmen to lead its two permanent committees.
Accordingly, any concerns can be Directors Remuneration conveyed to the director most qualied to address the subject.
The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27.
29 Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is The Board seeks to develop an understanding of the views of the subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully major shareholders by receiving reports from the Chief Executive in place during the year under review and up to the date of this officer and from the Witan Marketing Director on meetings that annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys they have with shareholders, investors and analysts and from the system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of Companys stockbrokers on contact it has with shareholders and the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, investors.
The Chairman, and other members of the Board if including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk requested, expect to be available to talk to major shareholders.
This review took into account points raised during the year in the regular appraisal of specic areas of risk.
The Board considers that the annual general meeting should provide an effective forum for individual investors to However, such a system is designed to manage rather than communicate with the directors.
The annual general meeting is eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairmen of the Audit objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Committee and the Remuneration Committee also expect to be assurance against material misstatement or loss.
present and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each During the year the Board undertook a full review of the resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Companys business risks.
These are analysed and recorded in a officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The Company receives each quarter from its main adopted a nominee share code which is set out on page 64. contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any known Accountability and Audit internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from its UK The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the based investment managers and its investment administrator accounts is set out on page 33. reports on their internal controls, each of which includes a report from the relevant companys auditors on the control policies and The report of the independent auditors is set out on page 34. procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk management into the The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, operations and culture of the Company and of its key suppliers.
including the various investment managers, the management of the investment portfolio, global custody which includes the The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited, is safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, authorised by the Financial Services Authority to undertake the management and financial accounting, company secretarial and regulated activities necessary to manage savings schemes for certain other administrative requirements and the registration investors.
The compliance structures required for these activities, services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and including a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the programme, have been duly put into place.
services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence receives and considers regular reports from the investment any concerns about possible improprieties, whether in matters of managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent the Board from its other contractors as required.
Its staff comprises only five people including the Chief Executive officer, who are well known to and have Internal Control frequent and informal contact with the members of the Board.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 30
