Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors in from the Board on 30 April 2007.
Mr Boyle was appointed to the applying financial reporting and internal control principles and Board and as a member of the Committee on 1 February 2007: to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups he became Chairman of the Committee on 30 April 2007. auditors.
Mr Boyle is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
The other two members are The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were appointed in 2002 and 2006 of reference, which comply with the Combined Code.
During respectively: details of their qualications and experience are the year the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and given on page 2.
The Committees programme is to meet at least recommended minor amendments to them: these were agreed three times a year: in advance of the publication of both the by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on request annual and the half year results and on at least one other from the Company Secretary and can be seen on the Companys occasion with an agenda that is focused on its broader website.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the The Committee held four meetings during the year, at two of Companys financial statements, including consideration of the which representatives of the auditors were present: to consider Companys accounting policies and significant reporting the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2006 financial judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial controls statements and to consider the plan for the audit of the Groups and risk management systems.
It reviews the scope and 2007 financial statements.
During the year the Committee effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the auditors conducted a review of the audit appointment and invited a independence and objectivity.
It makes recommendations in selected shortlist of rms to present to it.
The outcome of the relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including review was that the Board accepted the Committees their remuneration and the provision by them of any non-audit recommendation that Deloitte & Touche LLP be asked to services.
The Committee has established a procedure to ensure continue as the Groups auditors.
that the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit During the year the Committee addressed all the matters set out fees without due consideration being given by the Committee to as its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
In particular, the proposed appointment.
The Committee also reviews the the Committee considered the Boards processes for the review of process for negotiating and monitoring major contracts the Groups internal control and risk management systems and undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment restrictions concluded that the Group should not establish an internal audit and the values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures function : the subsidiary companys compliance with its that the Company maintains appropriate compliance with the responsibilities as a regulated entity: and the arrangements by requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of which staff may raise concerns about any possible improprieties.
The Committee reports to the Board, identifying matters on which it considers that action is needed and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, Robert Boyle including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Mr Colvill was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement 6 March 2008 32
