Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors of Centrica plc is committed to the Guidelines are in place concerning the content and presentation highest standards of corporate governance.
Throughout of Board briefing papers.
Comprehensive papers are provided the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company fully to Directors one week ahead of each Board meeting.
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
A procedure is in place for the Directors to seek independent The Company applied the relevant principles of the Code professional advice in respect of their duties at the cost of as set out in this report.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Board of Directors An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group, Board meetings and attendance and has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
This The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the schedule and the terms of reference for the Executive, Audit, year and supplementary meetings are held as and when Remuneration, Nominations, Corporate Responsibility necessary.
The Board had 9 scheduled and 4 unscheduled and Disclosure Committees are available on request and on the supplementary meetings during the year.
A table detailing Companys website at www.
individual Director attendance at Board and committee meetings during 2007 is set out below.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are also available on the Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business or Companys website.
All Directors who were unable to attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the The Board is specifically responsible for: relevant briefing papers and provided their comments to the the development of strategy and major policies: Chairman of the Board or committee, as appropriate.
the review of management performance: the approval of the annual operating plan, the financial The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director has provided statements and major acquisitions and disposals: assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what is health, safety and environment matters: expected of them.
the Groups system of internal control: and corporate governance.
One of the Boards meetings is specifically devoted to the development of the Groups strategic direction.
This is continually monitored and a half-year review is presented to and discussed by the Board.
Corporate Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Scheduled Supplementary Committee Committee Committee Committee 2007 Board and Committee attendance Number of meetings 9 45 24 4 Roger Carr 9 4 5 2 i Sam Laidlaw 94 21 ii Phil Bentley 93 4 iii Nick Luff 84 iv Jake Ulrich 94 2 Helen Alexander 9 2 3 5 2 Mary Francis 934524 v Andrew Mackenzie 924421 Paul Rayner 73432 Paul Walsh 61332 i Sam Laidlaw became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 11 December 2007. ii Phil Bentley became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 March 2007. iii Nick Luff joined the Board on 1 March 2007. iv Jake Ulrich ceased to be a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 11 December 2007. v Andrew Mackenzie became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 11 December 2007.
36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board membership and appointments The 2007 Board evaluation built upon the positive results and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their output of such previous exercises and focused on a number responsibilities are clearly established, formalised in writing and of key topics including: agreed by the Board.
There is also a balance of Executive and Board structure and composition: independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board of Directors Board dynamics and relationships: Board meetings: biographies including their Board committee membership are set out on pages 34 and 35. information flows and decision-making processes: committees: people and succession planning: and Nick Luff was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 March 2007 and was subsequently elected by shareholders reporting to shareholders.
at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Nick Luff replaced The evaluation process was carried out with one-to-one Phil Bentley, who became Managing Director of British Gas on 1 March 2007. interviews between the facilitator and each of the Directors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
In addition, As part of its annual review of corporate governance, the Board the Senior Independent Director chaired a meeting of the considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the other than the Chairman against the criteria specified in the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The output Code and determined that each remained independent.
from those interviews was compiled into a report prepared by the facilitator and this was presented to the Board at its meeting Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available to in December 2007, along with a number of recommendations shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the to address the issues raised.
normal channels has either failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The evaluation report concluded that the Board and its During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the committees continue to operate effectively and build upon the Chairman, met independently of management on a regular basis.
A small number of actions and improvements was identified from the evaluation and these will Full details of Directors service contracts, emoluments and be incorporated into the future Board programme.
The report also highlighted the importance of maintaining a focus on key subjects share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51. from the Board Planning Conference at future Board meetings.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness There is a formal, rigorous and transparent process in place for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process and development throughout the year ahead.
is described in the section on the Nominations Committee on As part of the Companys performance management system that page 39. applies to management at all levels across the Group, the Chief In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Executives performance is reviewed regularly by the Chairman Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders and that of the other Executive Directors by the Chief Executive.
at the first AGM following their appointment to the Board and The Remuneration Committee also assesses the performance thereafter are subject to re-election every third year.
Nonof the Executive Directors in connection with its determination Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term of remuneration levels as explained in the Remuneration Report and, subject to rigorous review and re-election, can serve up on pages 42 to 51. to a maximum of three such terms.
Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Jake Ulrich, Mary Francis and Board training Paul Rayner will be proposed for re-election at the 2008 AGM, An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual each to serve a further three-year term.
Directors is provided for each new Director.
Directors also receive training throughout the year.
Directors insurance and indemnities In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, At Board meetings and, where appropriate, committee meetings, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent the Directors receive regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the business, and to the legislative permitted by law, to each of the Directors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains and regulatory environments.
During 2007 the Board was briefed directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors on a variety of issues including: commodity risk and hedging strategy: and officers.
the risks and opportunities of upstream exploration activities: climate change strategy: Board evaluation improvements to customer service: During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous Health & Safety Baker Report review: and performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, including committees and individual Directors, with the assistance of an the codification of Directors duties.
independent external facilitator, Egon Zehnder International.
37 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued Board committees In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, The Board has delegated authority to its committees on which reports its findings to the Board, is authorised to: specific aspects of management and control of the Group.
monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial Written terms of reference for each of the Board committees statements, including a review of the significant financial have been approved by the Board and published on the reporting judgements contained in them: Companys website.
review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control and risk management systems: Minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Directors monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: on a timely basis.
establish and oversee the Companys relationship with All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the external auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
This membership structure gives the Non-Executive Directors insight monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys into the nature of the matters being discussed, brings continuity whistleblowing arrangements.
to membership and avoids undue reliance on particular members.
The full membership of each committee is detailed within the During 2007 the Audit Committee met four times and following committee reports: received comprehensive reports from the Director of Business Assurance, senior management and the external auditors, Executive Committee  LLP.
The Committee also During 2007 the Executive Committee comprised the Executive commissioned further reports in response to developing issues, Directors and those key senior managers whose biographical as appropriate, and, in respect of all ongoing issues, requested details are set out on pages 34 and 35.
Sam Laidlaw is Chairman clear objectives, timetables and achievement milestones against of the Committee.
which performance could be measured.
The output from each of these meetings was reported by the Committee Chairman The Committee oversees the management of the Group and to the next Board meeting.
is the decision-making body for those matters not specifically reserved to the Board and within the limits set out in the Groups At each of its scheduled meetings, the Committee met privately with the external auditors, and separately with the Head of delegated authority and expenditure control policy.
Following a review of decision-making arrangements during the Significant areas of review by the Committee during the year, the Committee moved from weekly to monthly meetings from November 2007.
At this time, the Committee established year included: the new British Gas billing system: a separate Investment Sub-Committee to consider and approve information technology general controls: proposed investment opportunities.
The core members of the Investment Sub-Committee are Sam Laidlaw, Nick Luff and risk profile of the Groups business model and risk mitigation: the internal financial control improvement programme: Grant Dawson with other members of the Executive Committee electricity prepayment debt and industry reconciliation attending, as appropriate.
The Investment Sub-Committee meets on a regular basis as business dictates, and the papers process: and ongoing compliance with the undertakings in respect and minutes are made available to all members of the of Centrica Storage Ltd. Executive Committee.
The Board has approved policies that restrict the types of nonThe following are also sub-committees of the Executive audit work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and Committee, with membership drawn from among the Executive Committee members and appropriate senior management: restrict the employment by the Group of former employees of the the Group Risk Management Committee: external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, within categories the Group Financial Risk Management Committee: and that the external auditors are permitted to carry out under the the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Board-approved policies, is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
The Groups Audit Committee policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancies and During 2007 the Audit Committee comprised Paul Rayner advisory projects is set out in note 7 to the Financial Statements Chairman, Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Andrew Mackenzie on page 81.
In addition, the Committee was provided with reports and Paul Walsh.
Paul Rayner, the finance director of a FTSE100 of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors company, is identified as having recent and relevant financial and, on a quarterly basis, a full breakdown of non-audit fees experience, as required by the Code.
The Board has determined incurred during the year.
that the members of the Committee are independent and that the membership meets the requirements of the Code.
In accordance with International Standard on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, the external auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
38 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Committee Relations with shareholders A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, investor relations and communication programme as part of its including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
Code in setting Executive Directors remuneration, is included within the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51.
Centricas website contains a wealth of up-to-date information for shareholders including share price information, news releases, Nominations Committee annual reports, speeches from the AGM, presentations to the During 2007 the Nominations Committee comprised Roger Carr investment community and a section on shareholder services.
Chairman, Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Sam Laidlaw, Andrew Mackenzie, Paul Rayner and Paul Walsh.
Throughout the year At its 2007 AGM, the Company passed a resolution allowing a majority of the Committees members were independent the website to be used as the primary means of communication Non-Executive Directors.
This facility provides significant benefits for shareholders and the Company.
Shareholders can still opt to receive The Committee is responsible for making appropriate their communications in a paper format.
recommendations to the Board for the appointment of replacement or additional Directors.
It is also responsible for The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to succession planning and Board evaluation.
In making its develop their understanding of the Company and ask questions recommendations, the Committee reviews the balance of of the Board on the matters put to the meeting, including this skills, knowledge and experience on the Board against current Annual Report and Accounts.
At the AGM, the Chairman and and future requirements of the Company and, as appropriate, the Chief Executive present a review of the Groups business.
draws up a list of required attributes.
All shareholders also have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed AGM resolutions by proxy, either electronically The Committee met twice during the year and considered or by post, at least 48 hours before the start of the meeting.
the proposed appointment of a new Group Finance Director, Nick Luff, as replacement for Phil Bentley.
The Committee The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hold regular also considered: meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
The Chairman the reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation at the and the Senior Independent Director attend the meetings at 2007 AGM: which the annual and interim results are presented to major senior management succession planning: and investors and analysts.
The Chairman also met a number of major talent management.
institutional shareholders during the year to gain a first-hand understanding of any issues or concerns they may have had.
Corporate Responsibility Committee During 2007 the Corporate Responsibility Committee comprised Formal reports of investor feedback are included in the papers Mary Francis Chairman, Phil Bentley from 1 March 2007, for each Board meeting.
The Board also commissioned an Deryk King, Sam Laidlaw from 11 December 2007, Andrew external survey of investors in order to assist in developing an Mackenzie from 11 December 2007 and Catherine May.
Ian understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The results Peters and John Way ceased to be members of the Committee of this survey were circulated to the Directors.
on 1 March 2007 and 31 July 2007 respectively.
Mark Crosbie, Grant Dawson, Anne Minto, Jake Ulrich and Chris Weston Risk management and internal control ceased to be members of the Committee on 11 December The Board regards the identification and assessment of risks, 2007.
A report detailing the work carried out by the Corporate together with the mitigating internal controls, to be fundamental Responsibility Committee during the year is included within the to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
It either directly or Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 32. through its committees, sets objectives, performance targets and policies for management of key risks facing the Group.
The Board At its November meeting, the Board approved the Committees has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control revised terms of reference and membership.
and risk management, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and can Disclosure Committee provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against The Disclosure Committee, which met on a number of occasions material misstatement or loss.
throughout the year, comprised Sam Laidlaw, Nick Luff from 1 March 2007 and Grant Dawson.
Phil Bentley was a member Across the Group, each business has a Risk Management of the Committee until 28 February 2007.
The Committee is Committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and management of risks.
These assessments are reported to the controls in respect of the management and disclosure of Group Risk Management Committee to develop the Companys inside information.
overall risk profile including those risks that might affect the Company at a Group level.
Where significant risks have been identified, a control infrastructure has been established to ensure day-to-day monitoring and management of risks.
Centrica Storage Ltd, which is subject to undertakings given to the 39 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in operates separately but to the same standards of internal control accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS pursuant to and risk management as the rest of the Group.
The processes Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
The Parent Company Financial of newly acquired companies are integrated with those of Statements have been prepared in accordance with the the Group.
Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors Report and the Remuneration At each of its four meetings in 2007, the Audit Committee Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies received a Group Risk Report providing an assessment of the Act 1985 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
key risks facing the Company including the adequacy of the associated controls.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties In preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are are set out on pages 25 to 27 of this report.
In addition, the required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply Audit Committee is provided with the results of internal audit reviews conducted by the Business Assurance function them consistently: according to a plan approved by the Committee.
These reports, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: supplemented by management presentations, enable the Audit Committee to track a number of issues, monitor performance state whether applicable accounting standards have been against objectives and ensure that necessary actions were taken followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from those reports.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern the issues discussed and conclusions reached at the following basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Boards review of the system of internal control The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with Group business principles and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting policies is assessed.
The results of this certification process, records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable together with the conclusions of the internal reviews by business assurance, informs the annual assessment performed by the them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Audit Committee.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period other irregularities.
from 1 January 2007 to the date of this report, and is satisfied that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board Disclosure of information to auditors will continue to routinely challenge management to ensure the Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that: so far as he she is aware, system of internal control is constantly improving.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Going concern auditors are unaware: and he she has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the parent Company and the Group as a whole has adequate any relevant audit information and to establish that the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For this reason, we continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, which are shown on pages 54 to 148.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing, in respect of each financial year, the Annual Report and Group Financial Statements.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and that they have been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
