FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 117 AUDITORS REPOR TS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 404 The report set out below is provided in and Exchange Commission.
Those reports KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately compliance with International Standards on are unqualified and include opinions on the on the Company Financial Statements of Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG Audit Plc financial statements and on the effectiveness AstraZeneca PLC and on the information has also issued reports in accordance with of internal control over financial reporting as in the Directors Remuneration Report that auditing standards of the Public Company at 31 December 2007 Sarbanes-Oxley Act is described as having been audited.
This Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which Section 404.
The Directors statement on report is set out on pages 98 to 114. will be included in the Annual Report on internal control over financial reporting is set Form 20-F to be filed with the US Securities out on page 116.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASTRAZENECA PLC We have audited the Group Financial and International Standards on Auditing the accounting policies are appropriate to Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year UK and Ireland.
the Groups circumstances, consistently ended 31 December 2007 which comprise applied and adequately disclosed.
the Consolidated Income Statement, the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Group Financial Statements give a true and We planned and performed our audit so as Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated fair view and whether the Group Financial to obtain all the information and explanations Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Statements have been properly prepared in which we considered necessary in order and the related notes on pages 118 to 177. accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and to provide us with sufficient evidence to These Group Financial Statements have Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report give reasonable assurance that the Group been prepared under the accounting policies to you whether in our opinion the information Financial Statements are free from material set out therein.
given in the Directors Report is consistent misstatement, whether caused by fraud or with the Group Financial Statements.
In forming our We have reported separately on the Company opinion we also evaluated the overall Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, adequacy of the presentation of information the year ended 31 December 2007 and on we have not received all the information and in the Group Financial Statements.
the information in the Directors Remuneration explanations we require for our audit, or Report that is described as having been audited.
if information specified by law regarding OPINION Directors remuneration and other transactions In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys is not disclosed.
The Group Financial Statements give a true members, as a body, in accordance with and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and, We review whether the Corporate Governance as adopted by the EU, of the state of the in respect of the separate opinion in relation Statement reflects the Companys compliance Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 to International Financial Reporting Standards with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined and of its profit for the year then ended.
IFRSs as issued by the International Code specified for our review by the Listing The Group Financial Statements have Accounting Standards Board IASB, on terms Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and been properly prepared in accordance that have been agreed with the Company.
We are not required with the Companies Act 1985 and Article Our audit work has been undertaken so that to consider whether the Boards statements 4 of the IAS Regulation.
we might state to the Companys members on internal control cover all risks and controls, The information given in the Directors those matters we are required to state to or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Report is consistent with the Group them in an auditors report and, in respect of Groups corporate governance procedures Financial Statements.
the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as or its risk and control procedures.
issued by the IASB, those matters that we SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRSs have agreed to state to them in our report, We read the other information contained in the As explained in the accounting policies set and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and out in the Group Financial Statements, in permitted by law, we do not accept or assume consider whether it is consistent with the addition to complying with its legal obligation responsibility to anyone other than the audited Group Financial Statements.
We to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, Company and the Companys members as consider the implications for our report if we the Group has also complied with IFRSs as a body, for our audit work, for this report, become aware of any apparent misstatements issued by the IASB.
or for the opinions we have formed.
or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do In our opinion the Group Financial Statements RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS not extend to any other information.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with AND AUDITORS IFRSs as issued by the IASB, of the state of The Directors responsibilities for preparing the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Annual Report and Form 20-F Information We conducted our audit in accordance with and of its profit for the year then ended.
and the Group Financial Statements in International Standards on Auditing UK and accordance with applicable law and IFRSs Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
KPMG Audit Plc as adopted by the European Union EU are An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Chartered Accountants set out in the Statement of Directors of evidence relevant to the amounts and Registered Auditor Responsibilities on page 116. disclosures in the Group Financial Statements.
8 Salisbury Square It also includes an assessment of the London EC4Y 8BB Our responsibility is to audit the Group significant estimates and judgments made Financial Statements in accordance with by the Directors in the preparation of the 31 January 2008 relevant legal and regulatory requirements Group Financial Statements, and of whether
