He chairs the Nominating and Community of Sir Joseph Causton & Sons.
Sir Christopher, who was chairman of the Hammersmith and He was chairman of the BBC Board of Governors from 1 April Queen Charlottes Hospitals Special Health Authority from 1982 1996 until 30 September 2001.
From 1972 to 1979, Sir to 1994 and of Hammersmith Hospitals NHS Trust from 1994 to Christopher was deputy chairman of the Independent February 1997, was knighted for his work in the NHS in 1993.
Broadcasting Authority and chairman of its Complaints Review He was chairman of the Private Finance Panel from 1995 to Board.
In 1982, he became a non-executive director of LWT 1996 and a member of the Prime Ministers Advisory Panel on Holdings and was chairman from 1983 to 1994, when LWT was the Citizens Charter.
He is a senior advisor at Warburg Pincus acquired by Granada Group.
From December 1994 to May 2000, and chairman of the Royal Shakespeare Company.
He chairs the He was appointed Chief Executive, Group Strategy and Operating Committee.
Since joining BT in 1986, he has Ben was formerly vice chairman of the management board of held a number of positions, including Chief Executive of Global Lucent Technologies in the USA from October 1999.
He joined Services, Chief Executive of BT Openworld and Group Director of Lucent in September 1997 as executive vice president Strategy and Development.
Andy was a member of the former international and became chief operating officer the following Executive Committee from February 1995.
Prior to joining Lucent, Ben worked for KPN in the member of e-skills UK, and ABESU a charity with the objective Netherlands for nine years as president and managing director of of making poverty history and a non-executive director of its telecoms subsidiary, PTT Telecom.
From 1975 to 1988, he NAVTEQ Corporation a US corporation.
Aged 51. worked for ITT in Europe.
He was created an officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau in April 2006 and appointed a Chevalier fide la Le gion dHonneur in June 2006.
He is a non-executive director of UPS a US corporation.
A Dutch national, he is aged 55.
He was formerly Chief Financial officer Franc ois Barrault a for BT Wholesale.
Since joining BT in 1983, he has held a Chief Executive, BT Global Services................................................................................................................................................ number of positions, including Chief Executive of BT Northern Franc ois Barrault was appointed to the Board and became Chief Ireland and Managing Director BT Regions.
Hanif was also Executive, BT Global Services on 24 April 2007.
He joined BT in chairman of OCEAN Communications BTs subsidiary in the April 2004 as President BT International, BT Global Services.
He was awarded the OBE in January 2003 Franc ois was formerly president, Lucent Technologies and for services to business in Northern Ireland.
He is a Chartered previously held other roles within Lucent including president and Management Accountant.
CEO Mobility International, and president and CEO Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA.
Before this, Franc ois worked for Ascend Communications where he held the position of senior vice president, EMEA and International until its acquisition by Lucent.
He previously held executive positions with IBM, Computervision Prime and Stratus.
He is a non-executive director of eServGlobal an Australian corporation.
A French national, he is aged 46.
He was formerly Group Finance Director from 2001.
In April 2000, he was appointed as Chief Executive of BT April 2002.
Prior to joining BT, he was group finance director Wholesale.
He joined BT in 1983, and has held a number of of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Dixons in 1991 after roles including Director of the Ofce of the Chairman, Director working for 3i Group and Bank of America International.
His of Multimedia and, from 1999, Managing Director of Networks experience at Dixons spanned a number of operational and and Information Services.
He is a non-executive director of financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
He was also a E-Access a Japanese corporation.
Aged 50. non-executive director of Ladbrokes formerly Hilton Group, and a director of Freeserve from its inception.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman on 2002.
He is non-executive chairman of Anite, Close Beacon 1 October 2006.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and the Investment Fund and Echo Research Limited and a Pension Scheme Performance Review Group.
He is the senior non-executive director of Herald Investment Trust.
He is also a independent director.
He is chairman of Akzo Nobel Supervisory trustee of Economist Newspapers and the Foundation for Liver Board and a non-executive director of British Airways and Royal Research.
Prior to his retirement in May 2001, Clay was Dutch Shell, and former chairman of Lloyds TSB Group.
executive deputy chairman of CMG having joined the board Prior to his retirement in July 2000, Maarten was president when it acquired Admiral.
Clay was co-founder and executive of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and vice chairman of its chairman of Admiral, incorporated in 1979.
He also acted as an committee of managing directors from July 1998, having been adviser to the Government on the efficiency of the Civil Service.
appointed a managing director of the Royal Dutch Shell Group Aged 60. of companies in July 1992.
Phil Hodkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
He has been president of Kone Corporation since 2005, He was appointed chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 October president and CEO since 2006 and a director since 2003.
He is group finance director of HBOS.
A Fellow of the was formerly at Nokia Corporation for more than 20 years, Institute of Actuaries, he was formerly chairman of Insight where his most recent roles were executive vice president and Investment, Clerical Medical Investment Group and Halifax chief strategy officer, president mobile phones and president Financial Services, and previously chief executive of Zurich Life telecommunications.
Matti is foundation board chairman of the International Phil is a non-executive director of Business in the Community Institute for Management Development IMD and chairman and chairman of the HBOS Foundation.
Aged 49. of Technology Industries of Finland Centennial Foundation.
A Finnish national, he is aged 54.
She was formerly Lord Privy Seal, Leader of and was appointed chairman of the Equality of Access Board the House of Lords and Minister for Women.
Previously, she was when it became operational on 1 November 2005.
He retired Minister of State at the Department of Health.
from IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year career, during which he Baroness Jay has held non-executive positions with Scottish held senior executive positions in the USA, Canada, Latin Power, Carlton Television and LBC.
She has been a member of America, Asia and Europe, including chairman and chief the Central Research and Development Committee for the NHS, executive officer of IBM UK.
was a founding director of the National AIDS Trust and a Carl is chairman of HMV Group and Clearswift Systems and a governor of South Bank University.
She is currently chairman of non-executive director of Rolls-Royce and Rexam, and an the Overseas Development Institute and a non-executive director advisory board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
A US of Independent News & Media and a member of its International national, he is aged 61.
Operating Committee Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive Franc ois Barrault Chief Executive, BT Global Services Andy Green Chief Executive, Group Strategy and Operations Hanif Lalani Group Finance Director c Ian Livingston Chief Executive, BT Retail Deborah Lathen................................................................................................................................................ Dr Paul Reynolds Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Deborah Lathen was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2007.
From 1998 to 2001 she worked at the Federal Communications Commission FCC as chief of the Cable Services Bureau where she was responsible for policy and regulation covering the cable, satellite TV and broadcast industries.
Prior to joining the FCC, she held roles as Director of National Consumer Affairs and Managing Counsel at Nissan Motor Corporation USA and legal positions at TRW e Financial Systems and the Quaker Oats Company.
Larry Stone, formerly Corporate Governance Director from 1 June 2000, was appointed Company Secretary on 27 March 2002.
He previously held external relations and regulatory roles with BT in Tokyo and Brussels and with BT Cellnet now 02.
He is a trustee of the BT Pension Scheme and a member of the Primary Markets Group of the London Stock Exchange and of the UK Social b, d, f Investment Forums Sustainable Pensions Advisory Board.
John Nelson was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2002.
A Chartered Accountant, he retired as chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe CSFB on 31 January 2002.
He was a member of the executive board and chairman of the European executive committee of CSFB.
Key to membership of Board committees: Prior to joining CSFB in January 1999, John spent 13 years a Operating with Lazard Brothers.
He was appointed vice chairman of Lazard b Audit Brothers in 1990.
He was also chairman of Lazard S. p. A. in Italy c Remuneration and a managing director of Lazard Freres, New York.
d Nominating He was a non-executive director of Woolwich until it was e Community Support taken over by Barclays Bank in 2000.
He is chairman of f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group Hammerson, deputy chairman of Kingsher, a member of the g Equality of Access Board Board of English National Opera and a senior advisor to Charterhouse Capital Partners.
All the non-executive directors are considered independent of the management of the company.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 51 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:07 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1359373947 Report of the Directors Corporate governance BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLE The Secretary manages the provision of timely, accurate and The names and biographical details of the directors are given on considered information to the Board for its meetings and, in pages 49 to 51 in Board of Directors and Operating consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at other Committee.
All served throughout the financial year, with the appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the exception of Deborah Lathen, who was appointed to the Board Chief Executive, for Board consideration where appropriate, the on 1 February 2007, and Franc ois Barrault, who was appointed companys corporate governance policies and practices and is to the Board on 24 April 2007.
Sir Anthony Greener served as a responsible for their communication and implementation.
The Board, which operates as advises the Board on appropriate procedures for the management of its meetings and duties and the meetings of a single team, is currently made up of the part-time Chairman, the Chief Executive, five other executive directors and eight the companys principal committees, as well as the non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive directors implementation of corporate governance and compliance within during the 2007 financial year met, and continue to meet, the the group.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code and are matter for the whole Board.
therefore considered by the Board to be independent.
In line with BTs policy, the Board comprised a majority of independent BTs non-executive directors non-executive directors throughout the 2007 financial year.
The Nominating Committee has agreed and periodically reviews The Boards principal focus is the overall strategic direction, the combination of experience, skills and other attributes which development and control of the group.
In support of this, the the non-executive directors as a whole should bring to the Board approves the groups values, business practice policies, Board.
This prole is used by the Committee, when the strategic plans, annual budget, capital expenditure and appointment of a non-executive director is being considered, to investments budgets, larger capital expenditure proposals and assess the suitability of candidates put forward by the directors the groups overall system of internal controls, governance and and outside consultants.
Short-listed candidates meet the compliance authorities.
It also has oversight and control of the Committee, which then recommends to the Board candidates for groups operating and financial performance and reviews the risk appointment.
These responsibilities are set out in a formal statement The non-executive directors provide a strong, independent of the Boards role which is available on the companys website.
Between them, they bring experience The Board has agreed the groups corporate governance and independent judgment, gained at the most senior levels of framework, including empowering the companys key international business operations and strategy, finance, management committee, the Operating Committee, to make marketing, technology, communications and political and decisions on operational and other matters.
The roles and international affairs.
powers of this committee are set out below.
A statement of Maarten van den Bergh, the Deputy Chairman, is the senior their powers and the authorities delegated to individual independent director.
In this capacity and his capacity as the members of the Operating Committee is available on the groups chairman of the Remuneration Committee, he meets with BTs intranet site.
He is available to discuss Historically the Board met every month, except in August.
The matters with institutional shareholders where it would be standard Board cycle changed in the 2006 financial year to nine inappropriate for those discussions to take place with either the meetings each year.
The Board met eleven times during the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
2007 financial year including two ad hoc meetings to consider Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, time-critical matters.
subject to three months termination notice from either BT or The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are the director.
At the end of the first three years the appointment separate.
They are set out in written job descriptions, approved may be continued by mutual agreement.
Each non-executive by the Nominating Committee.
In addition to chairing the Board, director is provided, upon appointment, with a letter setting out the Chairman is responsible for consulting the non-executive the terms of his or her appointment, including membership of directors, particularly the Deputy Chairman, on corporate Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time governance issues, matters considered by the Nominating commitment expected from the director.
The letter also covers Committee, which the Chairman chairs, and the individual such matters as the condentiality of information and the performance of the non-executive directors.
The Chairman and companys share dealing code.
the non-executive directors hold regular dinners at which they discuss matters without the executive directors being present.
Principal Board committees With the Chief Executive and the Secretary, the Chairman The Operating Committee, the companys key management ensures the Board is kept properly informed, is consulted on all committee, meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
issues reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a timely The other members are the Group Finance Director and the and considered way that enables the directors to full their Chief Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures that the views of the and Group Strategy and Operations.
The Secretary attends all shareholders are known to the Board and considered meetings and the Group HR Director normally attends meetings.
He represents the company in specified strategic The Committee has collective responsibility for running the and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief groups business end-to-end.
To do that, it develops the groups Executive, and generally acts as the bridge between the Board strategy and budget for Board approval, recommends to the and the companys executive team, particularly on the groups Board the groups capital expenditure and investments budgets, broad strategic direction.
The Chairmans other current monitors the financial, operational and customer quality of significant commitments are shown in Board of Directors and service performance of the whole group, reviews the groups risk Operating Committee above.
The Chief Executive has final register, allocates resources across the group within plans agreed executive responsibility, reporting to the Board, for the success by the Board, plans and delivers major cross-business of the group.
programmes and reviews the senior talent base and succession plans of the group.
Within the groups corporate governance 52 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:08 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1075041981 framework, approved by the Board, the Operating Committee is empowered to approve, up to limits beyond which Board approval is required, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, the making of investments by the group and divestments.
It is authorised to delegate these approvals, up to its own limits, to senior executives.
To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating Committee have long been an established part of BTs system of governance.
Each committee has written terms of reference, which are available on the companys website.
The Report of the Audit Committee, the Report of the Nominating Committee and the Report on directors remuneration are on pages 54 to 68.
The Equality of Access Board EAB was established on 1 November 2005, as part of the Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom following Ofcoms Strategic Review of Telecommunications, to monitor, report and advise BT on BTs compliance with these Undertakings.
The EAB is a committee of the BT Group plc Board, which formally approved the formation of the EAB and its terms of reference.
As required by the Undertakings, the EAB comprises five members: Carl Symon, a BT Group plc non-executive director and chairman of the EAB: a BT senior executive, Sally Davis, Chief Portfolio officer: and three independent members: Sir Bryan Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and Dr Peter Radley.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
The Board also has a Community Support Committee and a Pension Scheme Performance Review Group.
New York Stock Exchange The company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
The company has reviewed the NYSEs new listing standards and believes that its corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the following exception where the company does not meet the strict requirements set out in the standards.
The standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to identifying individuals qualied to become board members, develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the company.
BT has a Nominating Committee chaired by the Chairman, Sir Christopher Bland.
It does not develop corporate governance principles for the Boards approval.
The Board approves the groups overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance authorities.
The Board and the Nominating Committee are made up of a majority of independent, nonexecutive directors.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE introduced rules on 31 July 2005 requiring the company to comply with certain provisions relating to the Audit Committee.
These include the independence of Audit Committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
The company is fully compliant with these requirements.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 53 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:08 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -995071806 Report of the Directors Corporate governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Committee activities Introduction During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed The Audit Committee is chaired by Phil Hodkinson.
The other the standards of risk management and internal control, including members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay Brendish, John the processes and procedures for ensuring that material business Nelson and Carl Symon.
They are all independent non-executive risks, including risks relating to IT security, fraud and related directors.
They were members of the Committee throughout the matters, are properly identied and managed, the effectiveness 2007 financial year.
Sir Anthony Greener stepped down as of internal control, financial reporting, accounting policies and chairman and a member of the Committee on 30 September procedures, and the companys statements on internal controls 2006 when he retired from the Board, and Phil Hodkinson was before they were agreed by the Board for the annual report.
It appointed chairman of the Committee on 1 October 2006.
The also reviewed the companys internal audit function and its Board considers that the Committees members have broad relationship with the external auditors, including internal audits commercial knowledge and extensive business leadership plans and performance.
It reviewed the arrangements for experience, having held various roles in accountancy, financial dealing, in confidence, with complaints from employees and management and supervision, treasury and corporate finance others about accounting or financial management impropriety, and that there is a broad and suitable mix of business, financial fraud, poor business practices and other matters, ensuring that and IT experience on the Committee.
The Board has reviewed arrangements are in place for the proportionate and membership of the Committee and is satisfied that several of the independent investigation and appropriate follow up action.
At Committees members have the recent and relevant financial each of its meetings it reviewed with the group chief internal experience required for the provisions of the Combined Code.
It auditor and appropriate executives the implementation and is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee includes a effectiveness of key operational and functional change and member in the person of Phil Hodkinson who is an audit remedial programmes including major contracts and IT committee financial expert for the purposes of the US programmes.
The Committee also set aside time at every Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
meeting to seek the views of the companys internal and external auditors in the absence of executives.
Committee role In addition to carrying out those regular tasks described The Committee recommends the appointment and above under the Committees terms of reference, which are reappointment of the companys external auditors and considers posted on the companys website at www.
com committees their resignation or dismissal, recommending to the Board the Committee also carried out its annual consideration of the appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
It ensures that key groups risk register process, and reviewed the companys system partners are rotated at appropriate intervals.
It discusses with of internal control, its accounting systems, IT security and fraud the auditors the scope of their audits before they commence, and related matters.
Additionally, the Committee has reviewed at reviews the results and considers the formal reports of the each of its meetings during the 2007 financial year the steps auditors and reports the results of those reviews to the Board.
It being taken within the group with regard to the application of reviews the auditors performance, including the scope of the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act dealing with internal control over audit, and recommends to the Board appropriate remuneration.
It also specically evaluated its performance As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be and processes by again inviting Committee members and several necessary to employ the companys external auditors for certain executives and the external auditors to complete questionnaires.
In order to safeguard the independence and This process formed part of the annual Board and Committee objectivity of the external auditors, the Board has determined evaluation.
Committee members, and those others consulted, policies as to what non-audit services can be provided by the regard the Committee as effective on both behaviours and companys external auditors and the approval processes related processes.
There is a similar view too of the external audit to them.
Under those policies, work of a consultancy nature will process, which is regarded as effective.
The Committee also not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear reviewed the experience, skills and succession planning within efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
The the Groups finance function.
overall policies and the processes to implement them were The Group Finance Director, the Secretary, the groups chief reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the internal auditor and the companys external auditors attend the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to non-audit Committees meetings.
The Committee met four times during the services that external auditors may not perform.
The papers and minutes of Audit Committee Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work being meetings are sent to directors who are not members of the performed by the companys auditors and approves any Committee.
substantive work before it is undertaken.
It also monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the companys published financial results, the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other published information for statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports its views to the Board to assist it in its approval of the results announcements and the Annual Report & Form 20-F.
The Committee also reviews the disclosure made by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication process for the annual report about the design and operation of internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the companys financial controls.
The Board, as required by UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the annual report.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:08 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1148009836 REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE Chairman succession Introduction The Board approved the recommendation of the Nominating The Nominating Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
The Committee to appoint Sir Mike Rake as Chairman, in succession other members are the Deputy Chairman, Phil Hodkinson and to Sir Christopher Bland, as announced on 19 February 2007.
Sir Anthony Greener stepped down as a member of Sir Mike will join the Board on 26 September 2007, and the Committee on 30 September 2006 when he retired from the Sir Christopher steps down as Chairman on 25 September 2007 Board and was succeeded on 1 October 2006 by Phil Hodkinson.
and as a director on 30 September 2007.
A full programme of Three of its four members are independent non-executive induction and familiarisation is in hand.
The Secretary and, where appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive attend the Committees Board evaluation meetings.
During summer 2006, the Board carried out, through a questionnaire and discussion with directors, its fourth formal Committee role and activities evaluation of Board and Board committee performance and The Nominating Committee ensures an appropriate balance of effectiveness.
The individual performance of directors was also experience and abilities on the Board, using this evaluation to evaluated at one-to-one sessions with the Chairman.
The review the size and composition of the Board and to recommend previous Deputy Chairman and senior independent director, any proposed changes to the Board.
It keeps under review the Sir Anthony Greener, led the review of the Chairmans need for appointments to the Board, prepares a description of performance in consultation with the non-executive and the specic experience and skills needed for an appointment, executive directors.
The results of that evaluation were considers candidates who are put forward by the directors and considered by the Board in July 2006.
The directors considered external consultants, and recommends to the Board the BTs Board processes and effectiveness to be good.
Key areas appointments of all directors after having met short-listed highlighted were the need for continued attention to Board candidates.
It also reviews the time required from the Deputy diversity, more focused brieng on technology matters, and the Chairman and other non-executive directors to carry out their continuing need to pay attention to the amount of paperwork.
duties and advises the Board on succession planning for the These matters are being addressed.
The previous years concerns positions of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive and on maintaining visibility of major capital projects including postall other Board appointments.
The Committee met eight times project reviews and the amount of time available at Board during the 2007 financial year.
It reviewed Board succession, the meetings for free-ranging strategic discussion did not feature size, prole and composition of the Board and the Board and strongly this year as it was felt steps taken during the year had Board committee evaluation questionnaire and process.
Under adequately dealt with them via process and Board agenda the leadership of the Deputy Chairman, the Committee identied changes.
Further evaluations will be carried out annually.
candidates for the position of Chairman and recommended to Separate questionnaires about Audit Committee effectiveness the Board the appointment of Sir Mike Rake.
The candidates on were also completed and the results are reviewed in the Report the short list drawn up by the Committees appointed search of the Audit Committee.
consultants, MWM, were considered and interviewed by the Committee and met with the Chief Executive.
The Committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board the continued appointments of non-executive directors including the three-year extension for Maarten van den Bergh linked to his appointment as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director, and the new appointments of Deborah Lathen and Franc ois Barrault.
The terms of reference of the Nominating Committee are posted on the companys website at: www.
com committees The minutes of Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at their request, to directors who are not members of the Committee, where appropriate to do so.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 55 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:08 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1888604318 Report of the Directors Corporate governance REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY The Report on directors remuneration is divided into the This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not following sections: subject to audit.
i Constitution and process r Remuneration policy not audited The directors consider that BT has, throughout the year, i Constitution and process complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 ii Packages and financial year 2006 07 operation Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Shareholders will be iii Annual package financial year 2007 08 invited to approve this report at the companys 2007 AGM.
The iv Other matters Board is ultimately responsible for both the structure and Executive share ownership amount of executive remuneration, but it has delegated prime Pensions responsibility for executive remuneration to the Remuneration Other benets Committee.
The Committee is made up wholly of independent Service agreements non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the Outside appointments Committee are available on the companys website at Non-executive directors letters of appointment www.
com committees The Committees role is to set the Non-executive directors remuneration remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for Directors service agreements and contracts of the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Committee also appointment reviews the remuneration of other senior executives reporting Directors interests to the Chief Executive.
This includes approving changes to the Performance graph companys long-term incentive plans, recommending to the Board those plans which require shareholder approval and r Remuneration review audited overseeing their operation.
In this role the Committee also Directors emoluments monitors the structure of reward for executives reporting to the Former directors senior management team and determines the basis on which Loans awards are granted under the companys executive share plans.
Pensions The Committee met five times during the financial year Share options 2006 07.
Sir Anthony Greener chaired the Committee from Share awards under long-term incentive plans 18 July 2001 until he retired as a director on 30 September Vesting of outstanding share awards and options 2006.
From 1 October 2006, Maarten van den Bergh has been Deferred Bonus Plan chairman of the Committee.
Other members of the Committee Share awards under the Employee Share Investment who served during the financial years 2005 06 and 2006 07 Plan were: r Matti Alahuhta appointed 7 February 2006 r Lou Hughes retired 31 March 2006 r Baroness Jay r Deborah Lathen appointed 1 February 2007 r Carl Symon.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are invited to attend meetings.
They are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements are considered.
No director or executive is involved in any decision relating to his or her remuneration.
Non-executive directors who are not members of the Committee are entitled to receive papers and minutes of the Committee.
The Committee had access during the year to professional advisers, both from within the company and externally: Kepler Associates remuneration consultants, who were appointed by the company: Ben Verwaayen, Chief Executive: Hanif Lalani, Group Finance Director: Alex Wilson, Group HR Director and Larry Stone, Company Secretary.
They provided advice that materially assisted the Committee in relation to directors remuneration in the financial year 2006 07.
Remuneration consultants provide a range of data and advisory services covering all aspects of executive pay, bonus arrangements, shares and benets.
The Committee agreed that Kepler Associates may advise both the Committee and BT, and should be invited to attend meetings when major remuneration policy issues were discussed.
BTs policy is to reward its senior executives competitively, taking account of the performance of individual lines of business and the company as a whole, comparison with other FTSE 30 companies and the competitive pressures in the information and communications technology industry.
This has been crucial as BTs revenues from traditional business have fallen and new 56 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:09 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 375510139 wave services, generated mainly from networked IT services and For the executive directors and other relevant senior executives, broadband, have been developed to provide revenue growth.
To but not Openreach executives, see Openreach on page 59 the ensure that key people are both recruited and retained, base importance of meeting these operational targets is recognised by salaries are positioned within a range, consistent with prevailing linking 100% of their potential bonus to BTs corporate market rates, with the potential for total direct compensation performance.
The Committee retains the exibility to enhance or basic salary, annual bonus cash and deferred shares and the reduce bonus awards in exceptional circumstances.
expected value of any long-term incentives to deliver upper quartile remuneration for sustained and excellent performance.
Payment against corporate targets in the financial year 2006 07 A significant proportion of the total executive remuneration Earnings per Free cash Customer package is variable and is linked to corporate performance.
share ow satisfaction Remuneration arrangements and performance targets are kept weighting weighting weighting Total % of 40% of target 40% of target 20% of target target under regular review to achieve this.
As members of the Board, all Committee members receive 80 80 13 173 and review an annual corporate social responsibility report Note threshold reflects 50% of target: target is 100%: and stretch is 200% detailing the way in which the company manages social, ethical and environmental issues.
The Committee is satisfied that the structure for the remuneration of the executive directors and The deferred share element of the annual bonus is paid under senior executives does not raise environmental, social and the DBP Deferred Bonus Plan.
The shares vest and are governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible transferred to the executive after three years if still employed by behaviour.
There are no additional performance measures for the vesting of deferred share awards.
The Committee considers ii Packages and financial year 2006 07 operation that deferring a part of the annual bonus in this way also acts as The remuneration package is made up of some or all of the a retention measure and contributes to aligning management following: with long-term shareholder interests.
The deferred awards for Ben Verwaayen, Andy Green, Hanif Basic salary Lalani, Ian Livingston and Paul Reynolds at the end of the Salaries are reviewed annually, but increases are made only financial year 2006 07, and for Franc ois Barrault on 24 April where the Committee believes that adjustments are appropriate 2007 when he was appointed as a director, are contained in the to reect contribution, increased responsibilities and or market table on page 67.
The initial values of the awards to be granted pressures.
No base pay changes were proposed or made for in respect of the financial year 2006 07 are given in the table executive directors in 2006 07, save that the Committee agreed on page 63. increases in annual base salary effective from 1 June 2006 for Ben Verwaayen and Hanif Lalani to bring their remuneration Long-term incentives more into line with the market.
The BT Equity Incentive Portfolio the Portfolio is designed to ensure that equity participation is an important part of total Performance-related remuneration remuneration and that overall directors remuneration is aligned Annual bonus with shareholders interests.
It comprises three elements: share The annual bonus plan is designed to reward the achievement options, incentive shares and retention shares.
Incentive shares of results against set objectives.
were used for equity participation in the financial year 2006 07.
For the financial year 2006 07, on-target and maximum Retention shares are used principally as a recruitment or requiring truly exceptional performance bonus levels for retention tool.
No options were granted in the financial year executive directors, as a percentage of salary, were set at 60% 2006 07. and 110% respectively.
In addition, executive directors are Under his service agreement, the Chairman is not entitled to entitled to a bonus in the form of deferred shares with a value receive annual grants of incentive awards or options.
Normally, awards vest and options become exercisable only if The Chief Executive has a target cash bonus of 85% of salary a predetermined performance target has been achieved.
The and a maximum cash bonus, for exceptional performance, of performance measure for outstanding awards and options is 130% of salary.
He is also entitled to an award of deferred total shareholder return TSR, calculated on a common currency shares, equal to two-times his cash bonus, subject to an overall basis and compared with a relevant basket of companies.
TSR cap of three-times salary cash plus deferred shares in any one for these purposes was calculated by the law rm, Allen & year.
TSR links the reward given to directors with the Under his contract, the Chairman is not entitled to a bonus.
performance of BT against the shares of other major companies.
Corporate performance targets, set at the beginning of the For grants in the financial years 2002 03 and 2003 04, the financial year 2006 07, were weighted such that 40% of the comparator group was the FTSE 100 at 1 April in each year.
For bonus potential was based on EPS earnings per share, 40% on grants in the financial year 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07, free cash ow and 20% on customer satisfaction.
Delivery TSR was measured against a group of companies from the against these operational targets is a key determinant of success European Telecom Sector.
This comparator group was chosen and supports BTs strategy for transformation and growth.
The because the companies face similar market sector challenges to Committee agreed that in calculating earnings per share for BT and are within the sector in which BT competes for capital.
purposes of the annual bonus, volatile items which would be reported under IFRS should be excluded.
The impact of market movements in foreign exchange and financial instruments plus the net finance income relating to the groups pension liabilities were excluded from the target.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 57 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:11 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1954643126 Report of the Directors Corporate governance At 1 April 2006, the group contained the following companies: all of the options to be exercisable.
At median, 30% of the options will be exercisable.
Below that point, none of the BT Group Telecom Italia options may be exercised.
The proportion of options that are Belgacom Telecom Italia Mobile exercisable reduces on a straight-line basis between upper Cosmote Mobile Telecommunications Telefonica quartile and median performance.
Options were granted in the Deutsche Telekom Telecom Moviles 2002 03, 2003 04 and 2004 05 financial years.
The options France Telecom Telekom Austria granted in the 2002 03 financial year did not, after re-testing, Hellenic Telecom Telenor Portugal Telecom TeliaSonera meet the TSR target at the end of the performance period on Royal KPN Vodafone Group 31 March 2007 and lapsed on that date.
For options granted in Swisscom the financial year 2003 04, TSR had reached 85th position at All the above companies, with the exception of Telecom the first measurement relative to the FTSE 100 and performance Moviles were members of the comparator group at 1 April 2005: will be re-tested in the financial year 2007 08.
If the Cable & Wireless, 02 and TDC were also members of the group.
performance measure is not met, the options will lapse.
At 1 April 2004, Belgacom was not a member of the group but For options granted in the financial year 2004 05 there were Mobistar and Tele2 were members.
no re-testing provisions, and the policy of the Committee is for The TSR for a company is calculated by comparing the return there to be no re-testing for future equity awards.
At 31 March index RI at the beginning of the performance period to the RI 2007, TSR for these options was at 8th position against the at the end of the period.
The RI is the TSR value of a company comparator group of 20 companies and, as a result, 58% of the measured on a daily basis, as tracked by independent analysts, options will become exercisable from June 2007.
It uses the ofcial closing prices for a companys The option granted to Sir Christopher Bland on 22 June 2001 shares, adjusted for all capital actions and dividends paid.
The as part of his recruitment package is not subject to a initial RI is determined by calculating the average RI value taken performance measure as it matched a personal investment in BT daily over the six months prior to the beginning of the shares of 1 million.
performance period, the end value is determined by calculating The details of the options held by Sir Christopher Bland, Ben the average RI over the six months up to the end of the Verwaayen, Andy Green, Hanif Lalani, Ian Livingston and Paul performance period.
This mitigates the effects of share price Reynolds at the end of the financial year 2006 07 and by volatility.
A positive change between the initial and end values Franc ois Barrault on 24 April 2007 when he was appointed as a indicates TSR growth.
director, are contained in the table on page 65.
Incentive shares Retention shares For the financial year 2006 07, the Committee granted incentive Retention shares are granted under the RSP Retention Share shares to executive directors, senior executives, key managers Plan to individuals with critical skills, as a recruitment or and professionals.
In some cases, they are granted to key employees Awards of incentive shares vest after a performance period of who have contributed to good corporate performance to assist three years, if the participant is still employed by BT and a retention.
As a result, shares currently under award are not performance measure has been met.
Dividends paid on the generally linked to a corporate performance target.
The length shares during the three-year period are reinvested in further of the retention period before awards vest is exible although shares and added to the awards.
For awards of incentive shares this would normally be three years unless the Committee agreed granted in the financial years 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07, otherwise.
The shares are transferred at the end of the specified period if the individual is still employed by BT.
TSR at the end of the three year period must be in the upper quartile relative to the comparator group for all of the shares to Retention shares are used in special circumstances and, in the vest.
At median, 25% of the shares under award will vest.
Below financial year 2006 07, seven awards were granted of which that point, none of the shares under award will vest.
The three awards were made for recruitment purposes.
proportion of shares that vests reduces on a straight-line basis As a retention measure in his role as Chief Executive, BT between the upper quartile and median positions.
There will be Global Services, Andy Green receives awards of retention shares no re-testing, and no matching shares are being offered to any linked to BT Global Services financial performance in 2005 06 and 2006 07.
The target award was equivalent to 100% of executive on vesting of the incentive shares.
At 31 March 2007, the TSR for the 2004 05 awards was at salary with a maximum of 150% of salary.
The first award with a 8th position against the comparator group of 20 companies.
As value of 750,000 was granted in June 2006.
The second award a result, 55% of the awards will vest in May 2007. with a value of 217,000 will be granted in June 2007.
The The details of incentive share awards held by Ben Verwaayen, awards vest three years after the date of grant subject to Andy Green, Hanif Lalani, Ian Livingston and Paul Reynolds at continued employment.
In recognition of the leading role which the end of the financial year 2006 07, and by Franc ois Barrault Andy Green will take in delivering the next phase of on 24 April 2007 when he was appointed as a director, are transformation of the company over the next two years, a contained in the table on page 66. further retention share award with a value of 535,000 will be granted to him in June 2007.
The vesting of the award will be Share options after two years and will not be subject to performance No share options were granted in 2006 07.
The last grant of conditions.
share options was in the financial year 2004 05.
The awards under the RSP held by Sir Christopher Bland and The price at which shares may be acquired under the Global Ian Livingston at the end of the financial year 2006 07 and by Share Option Plan GSOP is the market price at the date of Franc ois Barrault on 24 April 2007 when he was appointed as a grant.
Options are exercisable after three years, subject to a director, or which vested during the year, are contained in the performance target being met.
For options granted subject to a TSR measure, BTs TSR at the end of the three-year period must be in the upper quartile for 58 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:12 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1548239432 Fixed Other share plans Base Pay Variable Total The executive directors and the Chairman may participate in BTs B Verwaayen 23% 77% 100% HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved all-employee share F Barrault 37% 63% 100% plans, the Employee Sharesave Scheme and Employee Share A Green 34% 66% 100% Investment Plan, on the same basis as other employees.
There are further details of these plans in note 31 to the accounts.
H Lalani 37% 63% 100% I Livingston 34% 66% 100% Dilution P Reynolds 40% 60% 100% Treasury shares are generally used to satisfy the exercise of share options, the grant of share awards and for the all-employee share plans.
At the end of the 2006 07 financial year, treasury Total remuneration comprises base salary, annual bonus cash shares equivalent to 6.2% of the issued share capital would be and deferred shares and the expected value of awards under required for these purposes.
It is estimated that treasury shares BTs long-term incentive plans, excluding retention shares.
equivalent to approximately 1% of the issued share capital will be required for all the employee share plans in 2007 08.
Openreach In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT iii Annual package financial year 2007 08 agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of The Remuneration Committee has carried out a review of executives within Openreach should be linked to Openreach executive remuneration and, as a result, resolved to place a performance rather than BT targets or share price.
These greater emphasis on long-term reward.
incentives cannot be provided by way of BT shares.
As a result, special arrangements were put in place for Long-term reward Openreach executives in 2005 06.
The annual bonus is linked to To provide appropriate incentives, to recognise good all Openreach targets and long-term incentives are paid in cash performance in recent years and to help rebalance overall instead of shares.
remuneration to long-term reward, incentive share awards with Openreach executives participate in the BT HMRC-approved an initial face value in the range of 100% to 200% of salary will all-employee share plans on the same terms as other BT be awarded.
Awards will have a fair market value in the range of employees.
In addition, there were no changes to the pension 44.5% to 89% of salary respectively.
None of the executive directors participates in the Openreach Salaries incentive plans.
Salaries have been increased in order to bring the overall packages more into line with the market.
iv Other matters Executive share ownership Annual bonus plan A mandatory shareholding programme was introduced for the The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the structure of the financial year 2005 06 onwards.
This is to encourage executive corporate scorecard for the annual bonus plan.
The annual directors and certain other executives to build up a shareholding bonus will continue to reward performance against EPS, free in the company over time by retaining shares received either as cash ow and a customer-related measure.
Given the a result of participating in a BT employee share plan other than importance of excellent customer service to the company, the the shares sold to pay a National Insurance or income tax weighting of the customer-related element will be increased to liability or from on-market purchases.
The Chief Executive is 30%: the EPS and cash ow elements will each be reduced required to build up a shareholding of 2 x salary and the to 35%.
Given that a large In addition, the existing customer-related element of the part of an executives remuneration is already variable, the scorecard, customer satisfaction, will be changed to customer requirement excludes the need to make a further personal service to reect the drive to improve the efficiency of the investment to build up the shareholding should share plan service provided to customers.
This is in line with programmes in awards not vest.
Current shareholdings are set out on page 62. the business designed to reect new quality assurance and Progress towards meeting these targets has been made during efficiency measures.
As in the previous two financial years, for purposes of calculating EPS for the scorecard, volatile items reported under Pensions IFRS have been excluded from the target.
Those directors and other employees, who joined the company The bonus levels for the Chief Executive and the executive prior to 1 April 2001, are eligible for membership of the BT directors will continue unchanged.
For the Chief Executive, at Pension Scheme, which is a dened benefit scheme.
The benets target, two thirds of any bonus will continue to be payable in of the executive directors who are members of the scheme are deferred shares.
The executive directors, who have opted The Committee believes that the group performance targets out of future pensionable service accrual following the pension for the financial year 2007 08 are more challenging than the simplication legislation which came into force on 6 April 2006, outturn for 2006 07. receive, as an alternative, a cash allowance annually.
The benets for executive directors who are covered by this are set Proportion of xed and variable remuneration out on page 64.
This is broadly cash neutral for the company.
The targeted composition of each executive directors BT closed the BT Pension Scheme to new members from performance-related remuneration, excluding pension, for the 1 April 2001.
From this date, provision is generally made on a financial year 2007 08, comprising annual and long-term dened contribution basis.
The company agrees to pay a xed incentives, will be: percentage of the executives salary each year which can be put towards the provision of retirement benets.
Additionally, a BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 59 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:13 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1918181390 Report of the Directors Corporate governance lump sum equal to four times salary is payable on death in The Committee will consider up to two external appointments service.
The benets for the executive directors who are covered of which only one may be to the Board of a major company, by this are set out on page 64. for which a director may retain the fees.
Ben Verwaayen as a Pension provision for all executives is based on salary alone non-executive director of United Parcel Service UPS, receives bonuses, other elements of pay and long-term incentives are an annual fee of US$75,000.
On 1 May 2006, he was granted excluded.
1,051 shares of restricted UPS common stock amounting to US$85,000 and on 8 February 2007 he was granted 1,501 Other benets shares of UPS restricted common stock amounting to Other benets for the Chairman and the senior management US$110,000.
Ian Livingston received an annual fee of 45,000 team include some or all of the following: company car, fuel or as a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc until he resigned as driver, personal telecommunications facilities and home security, a director on 31 October 2006.
Paul Reynolds, as a nonmedical and dental cover for the director and immediate family, executive director of E-Access in Japan, receives an annual fee special life cover, professional subscriptions, and personal tax of 3,200,000 approximately 14,000.
Andy Green is a nonplanning and financial counselling.
The company has a executive director of NAVTEQ in the US.
He is entitled to receive permanent health insurance policy to provide cover for the an annual fee of US$60,000 and an annual grant of restricted Chairman and certain executive directors who may become stock units to the value of US$125,000.
Franc ois Barrault, as a permanently incapacitated.
director of eServGlobal in Australia, receives an annual fee of E36,000.
In 2003, he was granted 500,000 options over Service agreements eServGlobal shares: 50% have an exercise price of A$0.15 per It is the policy for the Chairman and executive directors to have option and 50% have an exercise price of A$0.40 per option.
service agreements providing for one years notice.
It may be necessary on recruitment to offer longer initial periods to new Non-executive directors letters of appointment directors from outside BT, or circumstances may make it Non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
They are appropriate to offer a longer xed term.
All of the service appointed for an initial period of three years.
During that period, agreements contain provisions dealing with the removal of a either party can give the other at least three months notice.
At director through poor performance, including in the event of the end of the period the appointment may be continued by early termination of the contract by BT.
During the financial year mutual agreement.
Further details of appointment arrangements 2006 07, Sir Christopher Blands service agreement was for non-executive directors are set out in the Report of the extended to provide for his resignation as Chairman on Directors.
The letters of appointment of non-executive directors 25 September 2007 and his resignation as a director on are terminable on notice by the company without compensation.
30 September 2007 instead of at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
On termination of his contract by BT before 30 September Non-executive directors remuneration 2007, he is entitled to payment of salary and the value of any Eight of the directors on the Board are non-executive directors benets until that date.
Sir Mike Rake, who will replace Sir who, in accordance with BTs articles of association, cannot Christopher Bland as Chairman, entered into a service agreement individually vote on their own remuneration.
Non-executive as a director and Chairman to take effect from 26 September remuneration is reviewed by the Chairman and the Chief 2007.
Ben Verwaayens contract entitles him on termination of Executive and discussed and agreed by the Board.
Nonhis contract by BT to payment of 700,000.
The contracts of executive directors may attend the Board discussion but may not Franc ois Barrault, Andy Green, Hanif Lalani, Ian Livingston and participate in it.
Paul Reynolds entitle them on termination of their contract by The Board last reviewed fees in 2004 and plans to review BT to payment of salary and the value of benets until the them again in the 2007 08 financial year.
earlier of 12 months from notice of termination or the director The basic fee for non-executive directors is 40,000 per year.
If the contract of an executive An additional fee for membership of a Board committee is director other than that of the Chairman, Franc ois Barrault and 5,000 per year and a further 5,000 for chairing a committee.
Hanif Lalani is terminated by BT within one year of BT entering Sir Anthony Greener, who was Deputy Chairman and senior into a scheme of arrangement or becoming a subsidiary of independent director until he retired on 30 September 2006 and another company, he will be entitled to receive the higher of also chaired both the Remuneration Committee and the Audit that current years on-target bonus or the previous years bonus, Committee, received total fees of 115,000 per year.
Maarten the market value of shares awarded under an employee share van den Bergh, who was appointed Deputy Chairman and senior ownership plan or deferred bonus plan that have not vested, independent director from 1 October 2006 and chairman of the together with a years salary and the value of any benets.
Remuneration Committee from that date, and who is also The Committee has reviewed contracts taking into account chairman of the Pension Scheme Performance Review Group, the joint statement of best practice on executive contracts and receives total fees of 120,000 per year.
Carl Symon receives an severance by the Association of British Insurers and the National annual fee of 70,000 as chairman of the Equality of Access Association of Pension Funds, and other relevant guidelines, and Board a Board Committee, which was established on believes that contract terms are generally in line with best 1 November 2005. practice.
The clause described above dealing with termination To align further the interests of the non-executive directors following BT entering into a scheme of arrangement or with those of shareholders, the companys policy is to encourage becoming a subsidiary of another company will be excluded these directors to purchase, on a voluntary basis, 5,000 of BT from contracts for new appointments.
This clause was not shares each year.
The directors are asked to hold these shares included in the contracts of Franc ois Barrault and Hanif Lalani.
until they retire from the Board.
This policy is not mandatory.
No element of non-executive remuneration is performanceOutside appointments related.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus The Committee believes that there are significant benets, to or employee share plans and are not members of any of the both the company and the individual, from executive directors company pension schemes.
accepting non-executive directorships of companies outside BT.
60 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:15 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1687829895 Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment The dates on which directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Chairman and executive directors Commencement date Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of appointment Sir Christopher Bland 1 May 2001 Sir Christopher Blands service agreement was extended on 19 February 2007 so that it will terminate on 30 September 2007.
B Verwaayen 14 January 2002 a F Barrault 24 April 2007 A Green 19 November 2001 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and H Lalani 7 February 2005 by the director on six months notice.
I Livingston 8 April 2002 } P Reynolds 19 November 2001 Non-executive directors M van den Bergh 1 September 2000 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in 2003 and extended for a further three years in 2006.
The appointment is terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
C Brendish 1 September 2002 Letters of appointment were for an initial period of three years.
Baroness Jay 14 January 2002 Appointments were extended for a further three years and are J F Nelson 14 January 2002 } terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
C G Symon 14 January 2002 Sir Anthony Greener 1 October 2000 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for a further three years.
M Alahuhta 1 February 2006 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of three years and are P Hodkinson 1 February 2006 terminable by the company or the director on three months notice. }
D Lathen 1 February 2007 The appointment is renewable by mutual agreement.
a Franc ois Barrault also has a management agreement, dated 26 April 2004, which he entered into when he was appointed President, BT International.
This agreement is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by Franc ois Barrault on six months notice.
There are no other service agreements or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive officer was selected to serve.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 61 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:17 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -371149994 Report of the Directors Corporate governance Directors interests The interests of directors holding ofce at the end of the year and their families in the companys ordinary shares at 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2006, or date of appointment if later, are shown below: No.
of shares beneficial holdings 2007 2006 a b b Sir Christopher Bland 674,386 674,257 a B Verwaayen 1,238,827 951,497 a, e b F Barrault 107 a b b A Green 204,629 152,645 a b, c b H Lalani 36,358 14,360 a b, c b I Livingston 349,901 313,110 a b, c b P Reynolds 147,169 98,050 M Alahuhta 20,000 20,000 M van den Bergh 13,621 12,040 C Brendish 30,920 30,920 P Hodkinson 4,622 4,622 Baroness Jay 10,185 8,214 d D Lathen J F Nelson 50,000 50,000 C G Symon 15,069 15,069 Total 2,795,794 2,344,784 a At 31 March 2007, Sir Christopher Bland and each of the executive directors, as potential beneficiaries, had a non-beneficial interest in 20,797,054 shares 2006 24,809,976 held in trust by Ilford Trustees Jersey Limited for allocation to employees under the employee share plans.
They each also had a non-beneficial interest in 30,378 shares 2006 50,342 held in trust by Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited for participants in the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan.
b Includes free shares awarded under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan.
c During the period from 1 April 2007 to 15 May 2007, Paul Reynolds and Hanif Lalani each purchased 473 shares and Ian Livingston purchased 472 shares under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan.
d Deborah Lathen was appointed as a director on 1 February 2007. e Franc ois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007.
The directors, as a group, beneficially own less than 1% of the companys ordinary shares.
Performance graph This graph illustrates, as required by the Companies Act 1985, the performance of BT Group plc measured by TSR relative to a broad equity market index over the past five years.
We consider the FTSE 100 to be the most appropriate index against which to measure performance for these purposes, as BT has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 throughout the five-year period and the index is widely used.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
62 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:17 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2143870554 REMUNERATION REVIEW This part of the Report on directors remuneration is subject to audit.
Retirement benefits are accruing to three directors under defined contribution arrangements and to three directors and one former director under defined benefit arrangements.
b Expenses allowance in the above table includes a monthly cash allowance in lieu of a company car equivalent to 18,500 received by Ian Livingston and Paul Reynolds.
c Other benefits includes some or all of the following: company car, fuel or driver, personal telecommunications facilities and home security, medical and dental cover for the director and immediate family, special life cover, professional subscriptions and personal tax planning, and financial counselling.
In addition, Paul Reynolds had an interest free loan see Loans below.
d Hanif Lalani received an additional cash payment of 150,000 on 30 June 2006 in respect of a special retention arrangement established on 1 July 2004 when he was Chief Financial Officer, BT Wholesale.
e Deborah Lathen was appointed as a director on 1 February 2007. f Deferred annual bonuses payable in shares in three years time, subject to continued employment.
g Sir Anthony Greener retired as a director on 30 September 2006. h Lou Hughes retired as a director on 31 March 2006.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 63 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:18 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -525670915 Report of the Directors Corporate governance The annual salaries of the Chairman, Andy Green, Ian Livingston Pensions and Paul Reynolds remained unchanged during the financial year Sir Christopher Bland is not a member of any of the company 2006 07.
Ben Verwaayens annual salary was increased from pension schemes, but the company paid a cash amount of 700,000 to 750,000 and Hanif Lalanis annual salary was 15,186 representing a retirement allowance for the financial increased from 400,000 to 460,000, both on 1 June 2006. year 2006 07.
Following this years review of annual salaries, Ben Ben Verwaayen is not a member of any of the company Verwaayens salary will be increased from 750,000 to pension schemes, but the company has agreed to pay an annual 800,000, Andy Greens salary will be increased from 500,000 amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
to 520,000, Hanif Lalanis salary will be increased from The company paid 32,580 into his personal pension plan, plus 460,000 to 520,000, Ian Livingstons salary will be increased a cash payment of 189,920 representing the balance of the from 525,000 to 560,000 and Paul Reynolds salary will be pension allowance for the financial year 2006 07.
All increases will be provides him with a lump sum death in service benefit of four effective from 1 June 2007. times his salary.
Franc ois Barrault receives an annual salary ofE750,000 Ian Livingston is not a member of any of the company approximately 500,000. pension schemes, but the company has agreed to pay an annual Annual cash bonus awards in respect of the financial year amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
2006 07, which are not pensionable, to executive directors The company paid 55,665 into his personal pension plan, plus ranged from 96.5% to 117.85% of current salary 2005 06 a cash payment of 101,835 representing the balance of the 80% to 112%.
pension allowance for the financial year 2006 07.
BT also provides him with a lump sum death in service benefit of four Former directors times his salary.
Sir Peter Boneld received, under pre-existing arrangements, a Andy Green is a member of the BT Pension Scheme.
From pension of 359,900 payable in the financial year 2006 07 31 December 1997 the company has been purchasing an 2005 06 352,153. additional 203 days of pensionable service each year to bring his pensionable service at age 60 up to 40 years.
A two-thirds Loans widows pension would be payable on his death.
Prior to the date of his appointment to the Board on Hanif Lalani is a member of the BT Pension Scheme but has 19 November 2001, Paul Reynolds had an interest-free loan of opted out of future pensionable service accrual.
A two-thirds 300,000 from the company to assist with relocation.
At widows pension would be payable on death.
The company has 31 March 2007, he owed 170,000 31 March 2006 agreed to pay an annual amount equal to 30% of his salary 200,000.
During the financial year 2006 07, the maximum towards pension provision.
A cash payment of 135,000 was amount outstanding was 200,000.
There are no outstanding therefore made for the financial year 2006 07. loans granted by any member of the BT group to any other of Paul Reynolds is a member of the BT Pension Scheme but has the directors or guarantees provided by any member of the BT opted out of future pensionable service accrual.
A two-thirds group for their benefit.
widows pension would be payable on death.
The company has agreed to pay an annual amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
A cash payment of 135,000 was therefore made for the financial year 2006 07.
The table below shows the increase in the accrued benets, including those referred to above, to which each director, who is a member of the BT Pension Scheme, has become entitled during the year and the transfer value of the increase in accrued benets.
Transfer value Change in Additional of increase in transfer value accrued accrued c-d less benets benets in e Transfer value of accrued directors earned in the less directors Accrued pension benets contributions year contributions 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2007 2007 a b c d e f 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A Green 167 157 2,879 2,448 401 2 13 H Lalani 126 112 1,394 1,144 250 9 98 P Reynolds 140 140 2,160 1,995 165 a-d As required by the Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7A.
a-b These amounts represent the deferred pension to which the directors would have been entitled had they left the company on 31 March 2007 and 2006, respectively.
c Transfer value of the deferred pension in column a as at 31 March 2007 calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer value represents a liability of the BT Pension Scheme rather than any remuneration due to the individual and cannot be meaningfully aggregated with annual remuneration, as it is not money the individual is entitled to receive.
d The equivalent transfer value but calculated as at 31 March 2006 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
e The increase in pension built up during the year, net of inflation.
The gross amount can be calculated by deducting the amount under column b from the amount under column a. f The transfer value of the pension in column e, less directors contributions.
g Directors contributions in the financial year 2006 07 were as follows: Andy Green, 30,000 2006 30,000 : Hanif Lalani nil 2006 24,000 and Paul Reynolds nil 2006 26,000.
a Option granted under the GSOP on 22 June 2001.
The option is not subject to a performance measure.
It was a term of Sir Christopher Blands initial service contract that i he purchased BT shares to the value of at least 1 million: and ii as soon as practicable after the purchase of the shares invested shares, the company would grant a share option over shares to the value of at least 1 million.
Sir Christopher Bland was the legal and beneficial owner of the invested shares on 1 May 2004, so the option became exercisable on that date.
b Option granted under the GSOP on 11 February 2002.
The exercise of the option was subject to a performance measure being met.
The performance measure was relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 as at 1 April 2002.
BTs TSR must be in the upper quartile for all of the option to become exercisable.
At median, 40% of the option would be exercisable.
Below that point, none of the option may be exercised.
On 31 March 2005, BTs TSR was below median and also when it was retested on 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007.
As a result, the option lapsed on 31 March 2007. c Options granted under the GSOP on 29 July 2002.
The exercise of the options was subject to a performance measure being met.
BTs TSR must be in the upper quartile for all of the options to become exercisable.
At median, 30% of the options would be exercisable.
Below that point, none of the options may be exercised.
As a result, the options lapsed on 31 March 2007. d Options granted under the GSOP on 24 June 2003.
The exercise of the options is subject to a performance measure being met.
The performance measure is relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 as at 1 April 2003.
At median, 30% of the options will become exercisable.
On 31 March 2006, BTs TSR was at 85th position against the FTSE 100.
As a result, the options did not become exercisable.
The TSR will be re-tested against a fixed base on 31 March 2008. e Options granted under the GSOP on 24 June 2004.
The performance measure is relative TSR compared with a group of 20 companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2004.
BTs TSR must be in the upper quartile for all of each option to become exercisable.
At median, 30% of the option will be exercisable.
Below that point, no part of the option may be exercised.
On 31 March 2007, BTs TSR was at 8th position against the comparator group and as a result, 42% of each option lapsed and 58% of each option will become exercisable on 24 June 2007. f Option granted on 25 June 2004 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
g Option granted on 27 June 2003 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
On 14 August 2006, Hanif Lalani exercised his option and realised a gain of 3,608 based on the share price of 240.5p per share on the date of exercise.
h Option granted under the GSOP Special Incentive Award on 24 June 2003, prior to Hanif Lalanis appointment as a director.
This option is not subject to a performance measure as the grant was linked to personal performance.
i Option granted on 25 June 2002 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
j Option granted on 21 December 2001 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
k Franc ois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007. l Option granted on 23 June 2006 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
m Option granted under the GSOP on 21 May 2004.
The exercise of the option is subject to the same performance measure as options granted on 24 June 2004 see e above.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 65 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:19 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1542160569 Report of the Directors Corporate governance Unrealised gains As at 31 March 2007, Hanif Lalani had an unrealised gain on an exercisable option granted on 24 June 2003 of 109,738 and Paul Reynolds had an unrealised gain on an exercisable option granted on 21 December 2001 of 3,906.
There were no further unrealised gains on share options as at 31 March 2007 2006 15,790.
b Awards under the ISP were granted on 30 June 2006.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
The awards will vest, subject to meeting a performance target, on 31 March 2009.
The performance measure is relative TSR compared with a group of companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2006.
BTs TSR must be in the upper quartile for all of the awards to vest.
At median, 25% of the shares will vest.
Below that point, none of the shares will vest.
c The RSP award was granted to Andy Green on 30 June 2006.
The award will vest, subject to continued employment, on 30 June 2009. d Awards granted under the ISP in 2004 were subject to a performance target.
The performance measure was relative TSR compared with a group of 20 companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2004.
BTs TSR had to be in the upper quartile for all of the awards to vest.
At median, 25% of the shares would vest.
At 31 March 2007, BTs TSR was at 8th position against the comparator group.
As a result, 45% of the awards lapsed on that date and 55% of the awards will be transferred to participants in May 2007. e Ian Livingston was granted an award under the RSP on 31 May 2005.
50% of the award vested on 10 November 2006 and 50% will vest on 9 November 2007. f Franc ois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007. g The RSP award granted to Sir Christopher Bland on 1 September 2003 will vest, subject to continued employment, at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
66 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:20 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1053814148 Vesting of outstanding share awards and options Details of options granted under the GSOP in the financial years 2002 03 and 2003 04 which would vest based on BT Groups TSR compared with the other companies in the FTSE 100 for the relevant performance period up to 31 March 2007, details of options granted under the GSOP in the financial year 2004 05 and awards of shares under the ISP in the financial years 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07 which would vest based on BT Groups TSR against the comparator group of European Telecom companies for the relevant performance periods up to 31 March 2007 are as follows: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Expected vesting Percentage of Percentage of date TSR position shares vesting TSR position shares vesting GSOP 2002 29 07 2005 62 0% 73 0% GSOP 2003 24 06 2006 60 0% 85 0% GSOP 2004 24 06 2007 8 58% 9 44% ISP 2004 23 05 2007 8 55% 9 40% ISP 2005 31 03 2008 7 70% 8 55% ISP 2006 31 03 2009 3 100% Deferred Bonus Plan awards at 31 March 2007, or date of appointment if later The following deferred bonuses have been awarded to the directors under the DBP.
These shares will normally be transferred to participants at the end of the three-year deferred period if those participants are still employed by BT Group.
b Awards granted on 24 June 2003 vested on 1 August 2006. c Franc ois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007.
Details of deferred bonus awards in respect of the financial year 2006 07 are given in the table on page 63.
Awards in respect of the deferred bonuses will be granted in June 2007.
The number of shares subject to the awards will be calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
At that time, the market price of a BT share was 229.75p.
b Franc ois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007.
By order of the Board Maarten van den Bergh Deputy Chairman and Chairman of Remuneration Committee 16 May 2007 68 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -186513728 DIRECTORS INFORMATION an activity that demonstrates commitment to our customers and Election and re-election the people who serve them.
All directors are required by the companys articles of association Throughout their period in ofce the directors are continually to be elected by shareholders at the first annual general meeting updated on BTs business, the competitive and regulatory AGM after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A environments in which it operates, technology and corporate director must subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM at social responsibility matters and other changes affecting BT and intervals of not more than three years.
The director may seek the communications industry as a whole, by written briengs re-election.
and meetings with senior BT executives.
The Board also has two In accordance with the articles of association, Deborah Lathen lengthy sessions annually to discuss strategy.
Directors are also and Franc ois Barrault, having been appointed as directors by the advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and Board, retire at the forthcoming AGM and will be proposed for obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and election.
Sir Christopher Bland, Andy Green, Ian Livingston and in face-to-face meetings with the Secretary.
They are reminded John Nelson retire by rotation and will be proposed for of these duties each year and they are also updated on changes re-election.
Details of these directors contracts of appointment to the legal, accounting and governance requirements affecting are included in the Report on directors remuneration.
the company and themselves as directors.
During the 2007 financial year, for example, they attended presentations on BTs Meetings attendance accounting policies and on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which The following table shows the attendance of directors at affects BT because its securities are registered with the SEC: and meetings of the Board and Audit, Nominating and Remuneration received briengs on changes to UK company law and various Committees during the 2007 financial year.
corporate governance proposals from the European Commission.
The Chairman also sends a weekly e-mail to non-executive Audit Nominating Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee directors with topical sector highlights.
Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation Attendance shown for committee member a and delivery of papers for each Board meeting, so that the Number of meetings 11 48 5 b directors have enough information to be properly briefed Sir Christopher Bland 11 6 sufciently far ahead of each Board meeting and at other Matti Alahuhta 11 5 c appropriate times.
Franc ois Barrault Maarten van den Bergh 10 4 8 5 Independent advice Clay Brendish 10 3 The Board has a procedure for directors, in furtherance of their Andy Green 11 d duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at Sir Anthony Greener 625 1 e the companys expense.
In addition, all directors have access to Phil Hodkinson 10 3 6 the advice and services of the Secretary.
Baroness Jay 10 4 Hanif Lalani 11 f Deborah Lathen22 Directors and ofcers liability insurance and Ian Livingston 10 indemnity John Nelson 11 4 8 For some years the company has purchased insurance to cover Paul Reynolds 11 its directors and ofcers against their costs in defending Carl Symon 11 4 5 themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that Ben Verwaayen 11 capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
At the date upon a Two meetings were ad hoc for time-critical matters.
b which this report was approved, and throughout the 2007 Did not attend certain meetings in relation to his succession.
c Was appointed to the Board on 24 April 2007. financial year, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British d Resigned from the Board and Committees on 30 September 2006. e Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of Was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2006. f Was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 February 2007. all the companys directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the director has acted Service agreements fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Chairman and executive directors have service agreements, which are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Interest of management in certain transactions Information about the periods of these contracts is in the During and at the end of the 2007 financial year, none of the Report on directors remuneration.
companys directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business and none is Training and information materially interested in any presently proposed material On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme transactions.
when they receive information about BT, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees, and the powers delegated to those committees, the companys corporate governance policies and procedures, including the powers reserved to the groups most senior executives, and the latest financial information about the group.
This is supplemented by visits to key BT locations and meetings with members of the Operating Committee and other key senior executives.
Each year, directors participate in BTs Back to the Floor programme, BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 69 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1433576321 Report of the Directors Corporate governance BUSINESS POLICIES donations used in the Companies Act 1985 is very much broader Responsible business than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our covers activities such as making MPs and others in the political standards of business integrity and ethics, we have had in place world aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the for nearly eight years a written statement of business practice company, which make an important contribution to their The Way We Work.
This covers all our operations and applies understanding of BT.
These activities are carried out on an evenworldwide to all employees, and to all agents and contractors handed basis related broadly to the major UK political parties when representing BT, and is available in eight languages.
The authority we are requesting at the AGM copy has been sent to every employee and copies are also sent is not designed to change the above policy.
It will, however, to the employees of newly-acquired subsidiaries.
ensure that BT acts within the provisions of the Companies Act We measure our performance against these principles through 1985 the Act requiring companies to obtain shareholder our Ethics Performance Measure EPM, one of our key CSR key authority before they can make donations to EU political performance indicators.
The EPM comprises a measure of organisations which includes UK political parties as dened in employee awareness of The Way We Work, our ranking in an the Act.
During the 2007 financial year the companys whollyexternal benchmarking of a selection of FTSE-100 companies owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, made the and the results of a survey on the extent to which employees following payments to cover the cost of hosting brieng consider our activities ethical.
In the 2007 financial year, the meetings with MPs and MEPs about the companys activities: EPM was 84%.
Labour Party 3,953: Conservative Party 5,710: Liberal Global sourcing, a key aspect of which is managing a complex Democrats 4,444: Scottish National Party 3,500: Plaid Cymru global supply chain, is increasingly important to BT.
No loans were made to any political party by any Sourcing with Human Dignity initiative, we seek to ensure that company in the BT group.
working conditions in our supply chain meet internationally recognised human rights standards.
We investigate potential Pension funds social and environmental shortcomings and are committed to BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme and the achieving 100% follow-up within three months for all suppliers BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by the Board but by identied as highor medium-risk.
During the 2007 financial separate and independent trustees.
The trustees look after the year, we conducted 413 risk assessments.
We also conduct a assets of the funds, which are held separately from those of the survey every two years to establish the effectiveness of our company.
The pension funds assets can be used only in relationships with suppliers.
The next survey will be carried out accordance with their respective rules and for no other purpose.
During the 2007 financial year, we put increased emphasis on Payment of suppliers the environmental aspects of our supply chain by introducing BT subscribes to the Better Payment Practice Code for all new procurement principles covering the energy consumption suppliers, the four principles of which are: to agree payment and environmental impacts of products and services from terms at the outset and stick to them: to explain payment manufacture through usage and including disposal.
In the 2008 procedures to suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any financial year, we will be focusing on the implementation of contract agreed with the supplier or as required by law: and to these principles.
tell suppliers without delay when an invoice is contested and The high-level principles in The Way We Work are supported settle disputes quickly.
Details of this code can be found at by a continuing and comprehensive communications programme www.
co. uk BTs normal payment terms are 42 and on-line training.
A condential helpline and dedicated ecalendar days from date of receipt of a due and valid invoice.
BT mail facility are also available to employees who have questions will make payment to the supplier on the next payment run about the application of these principles.
The helpline number is following expiry of this term.
The ratio, expressed in days, also published externally.
BTs new Undertakings code of between the amounts invoiced to the company by its suppliers practice It matters forms part of our statement of business in the 2007 financial year and the amounts owed to its trade practice and is consistent with it.
creditors at the end of the year was 44 calendar days.
A Board committee the Community Support Committee, chaired by Sir Christopher Bland and comprising representatives Financial statements from BT businesses, three non-executive directors and an So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant independent member oversees our community investment information that has not been disclosed to the companys activities including charitable and arts expenditure and the auditors and each of the directors believes that all steps have strategy for maximising our contribution to society.
been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware An executive committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Steering Group, oversees the implementation of our CSR strategy companys auditors have been made aware of that information.
This includes risk assessment, setting of targets A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for and objectives, and public accountability.
BT also takes advice preparing the financial statements is included in the Statement from an external independent panel of CSR experts.
The directors statement on going information, including details of charitable donations made by concern is included in Financial review Capital resources.
the group, is available in Business review Our commitment to society.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies Political donations of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity The companys continuing policy is that no company in the risk and price risk are given on page 45 and note 33 on pages group shall make contributions in cash or kind to any political 126 to 133. party, whether by gift or loan.
Arrangements are in place to implement this policy.
However, the denition of political 70 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1759556352 Internal control and risk management New subsidiaries acquired during the year have not been The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal included in the above risk management process.
They will be control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness included for the 2008 financial year.
Material joint ventures and of those systems, which it does annually.
Such systems are associates, which BT does not control, outside the UK are not designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to part of the group risk management process and are responsible achieve business objectives: any system can provide only for their own internal control assessment.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Board has approved the formal statement of matters misstatement or loss.
The process in place for reviewing the which are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has also approved the groups corporate governance groups systems of internal control includes procedures designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case framework, which sets out the high level principles by which the of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure that group is managed and the responsibilities and powers of the necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
Operating Committee and the groups senior executives.
As part The Board also takes account of significant social, of this framework the development and implementation of environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses certain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are and reviews annually BTs corporate social responsibility.
The reserved to identied senior executives.
companys workplace practices, specic environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities and details of underlying US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governance processes are dealt with in the Business review BT has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Motivating our people and living the BT values and Our Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged to comply with commitment to society.
those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign BT has processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the issuers.
BT complies with the legal and regulatory requirements significant risks faced by the group.
These processes have been introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are in place for the whole of the 2007 financial year and have applicable to the group.
continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee The processes are in accordance with the Revised Guidance for includes in the person of Phil Hodkinson a member who is an Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial audit committee financial expert, and who is independent as Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board considers that the Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part Committees members generally have broad commercial and of the groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The group has a business leadership experience, having held various roles in detailed risk management process, culminating in a Board accountancy, financial management and supervision, treasury review, which identies the key risks facing the group and each and corporate finance and that there is a broad and suitable mix business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior of business, financial and IT experience on the Committee.
management as part of the strategic review.
The groups current The code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbaneskey risks are summarised in Business review Group risk Oxley Act is posted on the companys website at www.
ethics The code applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance The key features of the risk management process comprise Director and senior finance managers.
the following procedures: Disclosure controls and procedures r senior executives, led by the Secretary, review the groups key The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating risks and have created a group risk register describing the the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of risks, owners and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure the Board.
controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material r the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their information relating to BT was made known to them by others operations, have created registers relating to those risks, and within the group.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance ensure that the key risks are addressed.
Director have also provided the certications required by the r senior management reports regularly to the Group Finance Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Director on the operation of internal controls in its area of responsibility.
Internal control over financial reporting r the Chief Executive receives annual reports from senior BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining executives with responsibilities for major group operations adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
with their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide internal controls during the financial year.
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial r the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments reporting and the preparation of financial statements for of the quality of risk management and control.
Internal Audit external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS, and the reports to the management and the Audit Committee on the required reconciliation to US GAAP.
status of specic areas identied for improvement.
Internal Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of Audit also promotes effective risk management in the lines of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework business operations.
for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull r the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the Guidance.
effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures Based on this assessment, management has concluded that as in the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from at 31 March 2007, the groups internal control over financial the internal auditors and from the external auditors and reporting was effective.
reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit Committee has There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial carried out these actions for the 2007 financial year.
reporting that occurred during the 2007 financial year that have BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 71 Report of the Directors Governance Filename: 51384 05.3d Time: 15:18:23 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1091745691 Report of the Directors Corporate governance materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as votes affected, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
withheld, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over on each resolution on a show of hands, and at the end of the financial reporting, is reported to the Audit Committee.
It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at  LLP, which has audited the all possible.
Whilst, because of ill health or other pressing consolidated financial statements of the group for the 2007 reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal financial year, has also audited managements assessment of the circumstances this means that the chairmen of the Audit, effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the Nominating and Remuneration committees are at the AGM and effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial are available to answer relevant questions.
All the directors reporting under Auditing Standard No.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM at The Sage Gateshead on 19 July 2007, together with explanatory notes, SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING appear in the separate Annual Review & Notice of Meeting 2007 Relations with shareholders which is sent to all shareholders together with the Annual Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Group Report & Form 20-F if requested.
These documents are sent Finance Director and including, as appropriate, the other out in the most cost-effective fashion, given the large number executive directors, hold meetings with the companys principal of shareholders.
We aim to give as much notice as possible and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy, at least 21 clear days notice, as required by the companys financial performance and specic major investment activities.
In practice, these documents are being The Deputy Chairman also attends, at his discretion and in sent to shareholders more than 20 working days before the consultation with the Chairman and the Chief Executive, AGM.
meetings with shareholders during the year: this may also In line with the new provisions introduced by the Companies include meetings with investors to discuss overall remuneration Act 2006, we are proposing a resolution at the AGM to allow us policies and plans in his role as chairman of the Remuneration more exibility in communicating electronically with shareholders Committee.
All non-executive directors have an invitation to in the future.
attend investors meetings if they wish.
Contact with institutional Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to settle is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of their remuneration will also be proposed at the AGM.
share price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to the companys shareholders.
The directors Authority to purchase shares are provided with either full or summarised reports and other The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on written briengs from the companys major shareholders and 12 July 2006 for the company to purchase in the market 834 analysts and are regularly informed by the Secretary about the million of its shares, representing 10% of the issued share holdings of its principal shareholders.
The Secretary also surveys capital, expires on 11 October 2007.
Shareholders will be asked the companys retail shareholders about the quality of the to give a similar authority at the AGM.
companys shareholder communications and share registration During the 2007 financial year, 148 million shares of 5 pence services.
each were purchased under this authority 1.7% of the share Established procedures ensure the timely release of share capital for a total consideration of 401 million, at an average price sensitive information and the publication of the companys price of 2.72 per share.
The shares were purchased in an onfinancial results and regulatory financial statements.
All external market programme of buying back the companys shares, announcements are also reviewed for accuracy and compliance initiated in November 2003, as part of the companys requirements by a committee of senior executives, the shareholder distribution strategy.
For more details, see the table Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Secretary.
A total of 368 million shares have been retained as treasury shares.
At 16 May 2007, 91 million treasury shares Substantial shareholdings had been transferred to meet the companys obligations under At 16 May 2007, the company had received notications from its employee share plans.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited, Brandes Investment Partners LLC and Barclays PLC, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services By order of the Board Authority, in respect of holdings of 300,805,154 shares, Larry Stone 330,627,819 shares and 360,935,363 shares respectively, Secretary representing holdings of 3.6%, 4.0% and 4.4% of the companys 16 May 2007 total voting rights.
AGM resolutions We are continuing our policy that shareholders vote on the annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again be asked to vote separately on the Report on directors remuneration.
It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the companys activities and prospects.
We also give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing a separate resolution for each issue.
72 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 06.3d Time: 15:18:24 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1996749149 Financial statements The groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
74 Statement of directors responsibility 75 Report of the independent auditors 77 Consolidated financial statements 143 Glossary of terms and US equivalents 144 Report of the independent auditors parent company 145 Financial statements of BT Group plc 148 Subsidiary undertakings and associate 149 Quarterly analysis of revenue and profit 150 Selected financial data 154 Financial statistics 156 Operational statistics BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 73
