Audit Committee report Composition Financial reporting The Committee presently comprises John Biles Chairman, the Hon.
During 2007 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting James Bruce, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne, all of whom are and related matters, including the interim and annual financial considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the statements prior to their submission to the Board.
Their biographical details are set out on page 37. focused in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during by the Company and its subsidiaries and significant areas of judgement 2007.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Board, as part of the review of the effectiveness of the Board and its External Auditors committees, has satisfied itself that The Hon.
James Bruce, John Biles The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and Andrew Osborne all have recent and relevant financial experience, and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The Audit as required by the Combined Code.
Committee has reviewed those services provided by the external Auditors throughout the year in accordance with the Companys policy Role of the Committee on the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditors.
The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings This policy notes that such services are likely to fall within the following to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and types: a financial statements and external reports, b acquisitions, audit processes, and the maintenance of a sound internal control and c disposals, d taxation and e other services.
It identifies three risk management system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committee: categories of non-audit services: permitted engagements that require monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company no specific approval: permitted engagements requiring the approval and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial of the Committee Chairman: and engagements that are not permitted.
performance: Non-audit fees of 1.2 million as a percentage of the total fees paid to the external Auditor of 3.4 million were 35 per cent.
makes recommendations to the Board regarding the adoption of Annual and Interim Financial Reports: In accordance with its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved the external Auditors plans for the audit of the Companys 2007 reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal control financial statements.
In approving the terms of engagement for the and risk management systems: audit, the Committee considered the proposed audit fee and monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal associated expenses.
audit function: During the year the Committee performed its annual review of makes recommendations to the Board regarding the external the effectiveness of the Companys external Auditors, and has Auditors and their terms of appointment: recommended to the Board that  LLP be reappointed as the external Auditors of the Company.
The Committee reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence and remains satisfied as to the independence of the external Auditors objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: following a review at its meeting on 27 February 2008, and has is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on received written confirmation from the external Auditors to this effect.
the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit Internal audit and monitoring of control issues services: and At its meetings during 2007, the Committee reviewed the results of makes recommendations to the Board in relation to whistleblowing the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered policies and procedures.
the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation of recommendations made by the In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access function.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the to the services of the internal audit function and to the external Auditors, coming year and the level of resources allocated to the internal audit and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
The review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function Head of Internal Audit and the external Auditors have direct access was based primarily on guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal committee meetings.
A new Head of Internal Audit was appointed during the year.
The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority The Committee reviewed the reports from the internal audit function and responsibilities.
These are considered annually by the Audit and the external Auditors on the Companys systems of internal Committee and any proposed changes are referred to the Board for control and reported to the Board on the results of these reviews.
The Committees current terms of reference are available upon Further details of the Companys system of internal control and its request from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website.
policies and procedures can be found in the Corporate governance Report on the Committees activities in 2007 report on pages 44 to 45.
Meetings and attendance Whistleblowing The Committee met on four occasions in 2007 timed to coincide The Companys whistleblowing policy was monitored by the with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Issues raised through members attendance at the meetings held during the year is set the Companys whistleblowing procedures during the year were out in the table contained in the Corporate governance report considered by the Committee, and any follow-up actions taken on page 42. as and when required.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, representatives On behalf of the Committee of the external Auditors, the Head of Internal Audit and senior financial executives from head office and the operations attended meetings John Biles by invitation for appropriate business.
In addition, the members of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee met separately with the external Auditors and the Head 12 March 2008 of Internal Audit to discuss matters without the Executive Directors being present.
During the year the Chairman of the Audit Committee has had additional meetings with the Companys senior financial managers to review a range of financial matters, and has also met with external and internal Auditors prior to Audit Committee meetings.
