Corporate governance Committee 1 Compliance with the Combined Code The Company monitors its compliance with the requirements of Board Audit Nominations Remuneration the Combined Code on a continuous basis.
This report, in addition to Meetings attended: the Remuneration report on pages 47 to 51 and the Audit Committee 1 report on page 46, describe how the Company has applied and David Gawler 10 11 n a 5 9 n a complied with the principles, supporting principles and provisions 2 Lars Emilson 1 11 n a 0 9 1 8 contained in the Combined Code.
3 Michael Foster 11 11 n a 7 9 n a Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Board is of the opinion that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions Robert Careless 11 11 n a n a n a of the Combined Code with only one exception.
The service contracts James Deeley 11 11 n a n a n a of Michael Foster and Robert Careless contain liquidated damages clauses, which are in contrast to requirement B.
1.5 of the Combined John Biles 11 11 4 4 9 9 8 8 Code for outgoing directors to mitigate their loss.
James Bruce 10 11 4 4 8 9 8 8 that these arrangements are not excessive and serve to balance the interests of shareholders with the need to ensure the retention Grey Denham 11 11 4 4 7 9 7 8 of these individuals.
The policy has since been revised with regard 4 John Neill 10 11 n a n a n a to the service contracts of new Executive Directors and therefore the service contract of James Deeley contains no such provision.
Andrew Osborne 10 11 4 4 8 9 8 8 2 Directors 1 David Gawler resigned as Executive Chairman of the Company on 31 October 2007.
In accordance with the Combined Code, he did not attend the Nominations Committee a The Board meetings which had been convened to discuss possible successors to his Chairmanship.
The Board conducts itself in such a way as to provide leadership 2 Lars Emilson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 14 September 2007 and his membership of the Nominations and Remuneration to the Company and its subsidiaries and their respective employees.
Committees was effective from the same date.
He became Chairman on 1 November 2007.
It is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance There were no further meetings of the Nominations Committee following this date.
3 Michael Foster was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee and to the delivery of enhanced shareholder value in a manner on 24 January 2007. consistent with sound business practices and proper standards 4 John Neill is not a member of the Audit, Nominations or Remuneration Committee.
In providing such leadership, the Board focuses on integrity The powers and authorities retained by the Board include: and personal responsibility with the overriding objective of creating shareholder value.
the approval of annual and interim results, interim management statements and associated announcements: The Board operates in accordance with a Management and Governance Framework the Framework.
This has been approved the membership, authority and terms of reference of Board and adopted by the Board, and consolidates those policies which committees: govern the management and governance of the Company and its corporate strategy: subsidiaries.
The Framework contains details of a the specific powers that the Board has retained, b the authority that has been significant financing arrangements: delegated to the Board Committees and their terms of reference matters relating to share capital including employee share schemes and c the role of the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and share options : and the responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director copies of the Terms of Reference of the Committees and the documents contracts or expenditures in excess of certain monetary thresholds: covering the role of the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive adoption of annual budgets: and and the responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
com or obtained appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Framework is kept under The day-to-day management of the Company has been delegated regular review and modified as and when new situations, requirements to the Executive Committee and the boards of the Companys two or developments in best practice arise.
The Board ensures that the main operating businesses.
Any concerns that the Non-Executive membership of its committees is refreshed so that undue reliance is Directors may have regarding either the administration of the not placed on individual Directors.
Company and its subsidiaries, or any proposed actions, are The Board meets regularly and there were 11 scheduled meetings recorded in the minutes of the Company where an alternative held during the course of 2007.
The Board also hosts an annual resolution cannot be found.
Strategy Conference, at which it considers and determines the The Company has provided its Directors with appropriate insurance strategic plans for the Companys businesses.
Details of attendance cover in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against them.
at meetings of the Board and its Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Further details on this can be found on page 39.
Committees are shown in the table below.
There are 9 Board meetings scheduled to take place in 2008.
Agendas and supporting papers are b Board committees distributed to Directors in advance of each meeting so that the i Nominations Committee meeting can benefit from informed debate.
Should any Director be Composition: Lars Emilson Chairman, Michael Foster, John Biles, unable to attend any meeting he is encouraged to pass any comments The Hon.
James Bruce, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne.
in advance of the meeting to the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the With the exception of Lars Emilson and Michael Foster, who were Finance Director or the Company Secretary.
No individuals other than appointed to the Committee on 14 September 2007 and 24 January the committee chairman and the members are entitled to be present 2007 respectively, all were members throughout the year.
All of the at meetings of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, members of the Committee, excluding Michael Foster, are considered although others including the Executive Directors, Head of Internal independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Combined Audit, Head of Taxation and the external Auditors may attend at Code and accordingly a majority of the members are independent.
the prior invitation of the relevant committee chairman.
David Gawler was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement on 31 October 2007.
Role: The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning appointments to the Board, including evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience required and setting a job description for specific appointments.
42 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Activities: During the year the Committee led the process to appoint v Audit Committee a new Non-Executive Chairman to replace David Gawler on his Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and work retirement from the Board.
This process involved the preparation of the Audit Committee during the year under review can be found of a suitable job description for the role and a selection process with in the Audit Committee report on page 46. the assistance of external search consultants.
Under the terms of c Anderson Group Inc reference of the Committee, the Chairman is not entitled to chair the The operations of ESAB and Howden in North America are managed Committee on matters regarding the appointment of a successor by Anderson Group Inc AGI, a subsidiary of the Company.
AGIs to the chairmanship of the Company.
Accordingly, the Senior Board is responsible for all aspects of the management of its affairs Independent Director, The Hon.
James Bruce, chaired all 7 meetings.
and for the corporate governance framework of the businesses that The Board also reviewed plans for orderly management succession are operated by its subsidiaries.
The Company exercises its rights as in relation to both Board and senior management appointments at shareholder of AGI by appointing three nominees as Non-Executive the Companys annual strategy conference in September 2007 with Directors to the Board of AGI and they, on behalf of the Company, a follow-up session taking place at a subsequent Board meeting.
review matters of significance relating to its ownership interest in AGI Consideration was also given to the results of a review of senior such as board appointments, financial results, corporate strategy, management teams across all businesses conducted by an external major investments and divestments and corporate governance issues.
agency earlier in the year.
Following this exercise the Board believes that appropriate plans have been adopted to ensure that the correct d Chairman and Chief Executive balance of skills and experience are maintained on the Board and Lars Emilson was appointed Chairman of the Company on within the senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
1 November 2007 and Michael Foster was appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2006.
The Board believes that the two roles carry different ii Remuneration Committee responsibilities and has approved a clear division of responsibilities Composition: Throughout the year the Committee comprised between the Chairman and Chief Executive which are reflected in The Hon.
James Bruce Chairman, John Biles, Grey Denham, the Framework.
It also believes that the appointment of Lars Emilson Lars Emilson and Andrew Osborne, all of whom are considered as an independent Non-Executive Chairman will reinforce this independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Code.
Role and activities: A detailed explanation of the role and activities The Chairman has primary responsibility for leading the Board, for of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration ensuring its effectiveness, and for ensuring that good communications report on pages 47 to 51. are maintained with shareholders, whilst the Chief Executive has iii Executive Committee responsibility for running the Companys businesses.
Lars Emilson Composition: The Committee comprises the three Executive Directors: has no significant commitments that require disclosure in relation Michael Foster, Robert Careless and James Deeley, and the to his Chairmanship.
Chief Executive Officers of ESAB Global and Howden Global being During his time as Chairman, David Gawler would periodically Jon Templeman and Bob Cleland respectively.
David Gawler was also meet with the Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive a member of the Committee until his retirement on 31 October 2007.
Directors present as well as maintaining contact should they wish to Role: Meetings of the Committee generally took place twice a month raise any issues with him outside of the formal setting of the monthly in 2007 although the number of meetings has been reduced to an Board meetings.
It is the intention of the new Chairman to continue average of just over one per month for 2008 as a result of improved this practice as often as time will allow.
efficiencies within the Companys internal management and e Board balance and independence administration processes.
The Board has delegated the necessary The Board currently comprises nine directors, three of whom are powers and authority to the Executive Committee for the day-to-day Executive and six of whom are Non-Executive.
The Board believes management of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries other that this structure provides the correct balance of skills and experience than Anderson Group Inc see paragraph c below, subject to powers for the business and would allow for any changes to the Boards that the Board has either retained or explicitly delegated to other Board composition to be managed without undue disruption, whilst ensuring committees.
The Committee operates in accordance with detailed that the presence of six Non-Executive Directors prevents a concentration terms of reference that form part of the Framework.
of power and influence in a small number of individuals.
iv Disclosure Committee The Board has determined that, with the exception of John Neill Composition: The Committee comprises the three Executive Directors.
who is no longer considered to be independent by virtue of his length David Gawler was a member of the Committee until his retirement on of service on the Board and his relationship with the Unipart Group 31 October 2007. of Companies which is summarised on page 39, all of the Role: With the exception of David Gawler, all were members Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are regarded throughout the year.
The Committee is primarily responsible for the as independent.
The Board does not consider that there exist creation and maintenance of appropriate procedures, systems and any relationships or circumstances likely to affect the judgment controls to ensure compliance by the Company with its obligations of any Non-Executive Director.
under the DTR and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
In particular, it has The Board greatly values the contribution and experience of John Neill responsibility for the determination, on a timely basis, of the disclosure and recommends his re-election at the forthcoming AGM as a Nontreatment of material information and designing, implementing and Executive Director.
evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that operate within the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee also has responsibility No Executive Director currently holds a non-executive directorship identifying inside information, for the purpose of maintaining the of a FTSE 100 company.
Companys insider lists as required by the DTR.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 43 Corporate governance continued f Information and professional development 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: The Company Secretary, under the guidance of the Chairman, 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees.
All Directors of the Company have access 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained: and take independent professional advice on any matter relating to 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern basis, the Company at the Companys expense.
In advance of Board and unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
committee meetings, Directors and relevant committee members receive detailed papers on the matters to be considered, enabling The applicable accounting standards referred to in 3 above are: them to request further clarification or additional information and to a UK GAAP for the Company: and participate fully in discussions.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance b IFRS as adopted by the European Union and implemented matters and best practice.
The Company has a comprehensive induction process for all The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps Non-Executive Directors when they join the Board.
This includes sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy a detailed information pack, which combines publicly available the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure information, such as the Report and Accounts and product information, that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. with confidential briefing notes on the Companys financing arrangements, They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard corporate structures, management accounts, advisers and other the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and, in that context, relevant information.
In addition briefing meetings are organised with to have proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems key members of the Board and senior management and visits are of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud arranged to the Companys businesses.
g Performance evaluation The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to Evaluation of the Board and its principal committees is conducted provide the Auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps, by gathering feedback from the relevant members of the Board and and undertake whatever inspections, the Auditors consider to be committees on questionnaires prepared by the Companys Auditors, appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
the results of which are collated and presented to the Board by the The Directors consider that they have taken the actions necessary Chairman.
The Chairman is responsible for conducting the to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible of the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation for evaluating the performance of the Chairman and in doing so take and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive in other jurisdictions.
conducts individual evaluations of the Executive Directors against a number of pre-agreed performance objectives.
In view of the fact ii Going concern that Lars Emilson was only appointed Chairman in November 2007, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation no performance evaluation has been conducted in relation to that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to his role as Chairman for the current year.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The results of the questionnaires were summarised in a paper submitted the accounts.
to the Board by the Chairman on 27 February 2008.
This considered the areas that the Directors identified for improvement and set out b Internal control the manner in which these were to be addressed going forward.
The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance of a system The Board was unanimous in its agreement with the Chairmans of internal control.
The Audit Committee has been formally delegated assessment that the Board, its committees and individuals continued responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of to be effective.
h Reappointment The processes to manage the key risks to the success of the Under article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Company and its businesses are reviewed and improved as up to one-third of the Directors are required to submit themselves necessary.
There is an organisational structure with clearly defined for re-election each year.
At this years AGM, Michael Foster and lines of responsibility and delegation of authority and there are also John Biles retire by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election.
established policies and procedures for monitoring each business.
John Neill offers himself for re-election annually pursuant to the While the operational control is largely decentralised and responsibility Combined Code as he has served on the Board for more than is delegated, the businesses are subject to the overall internal control 9 years.
In addition, the appointment of Lars Emilson as a framework.
This, by its nature, can provide reasonable but not Non-Executive Director on 14 September 2007 and as Chairman absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
on 1 November 2007 means that, in accordance with article 97 of the Companys Articles of Association, he must offer himself Detailed policies and procedures have been established by the Board for election at the AGM.
The Board considers that these Directors and or the Executive Committee dealing with numerous issues, continue to make an effective contribution to the business of the including internal controls.
Examples of internal control procedures Company and as a result recommends their re-election.
are summarised below: 3 Accountability and Audit i Assessment of business risk a Financial reporting A system of risk identification assessment and identification i Statement of Directors responsibilities and evaluation of controls is embedded within the Companys The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors management processes.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising in relation to the consolidated financial statements and those of the from changes in the business environment are regularly reviewed Company.
The reports of the external Auditors, shown on pages 52 and by the Executive Committee and formally discussed by the Board.
53, set out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
Risks relating to key activities within the operating businesses and at the Companys head office are assessed on a continuous basis Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board.
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 44 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 ii Control environment The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness Under the Framework described on page 42, the Board sets overall of the system of internal controls described above for the financial policy and delegates authority to implement that policy to the Executive year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date of this Report Committee, which is empowered to appoint nominees to the Board in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Revised of AGI and to sub-delegate authority to the operating businesses Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull of ESAB Global and Howden Global.
The review encompassed operational, financial and compliance controls as well as risk management.
The system used A well-defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, included the following elements: lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been established.
There are procedures for appraisal, review and authorisation of matters as part of their ongoing reviews of the business, the Executive of significance, including investments, capital expenditure, borrowings, Directors and Key Management reviewed the effectiveness guarantees, indemnities and material contracts.
of strategic, operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
This involved considering reports on key risk areas iii Information and communication concentrating on significant changes in the risk profile and in the The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive light of such reviews making appropriate amendments to policies system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the and procedures to control risks: and Board, including: the Board considered reports from the Audit Committee and the preparation and review of annual budgets: the Executive Directors on these areas during the year and at the a review of the businesses at each Board meeting, focusing time of approving the Annual Report and Accounts, considered on any new risks arising for example, those relating to proposed a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of the key major investments and key changes in the markets : and risks and controls identified.
meetings between various Executive Directors and 4 Relations with shareholders operational management.
The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue with institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
Communications iv Control procedures with private shareholders are conducted through the Annual Report, Detailed operational procedures are developed for each key activity Company announcements, presentations at the AGM and the that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and Companys website which includes descriptions of the Companys regulations are taken into account within these procedures.
Procedures are established to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and to ensure that all financial transactions are The Board receives regular updates on all meetings and communications properly recorded.
Accounting policies and practices are widely with major shareholders and major shareholders are offered the disseminated throughout the Companys subsidiaries and its affiliates.
opportunity to meet with the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
v Monitoring process The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal have concerns that cannot be addressed through regular channels controls.
The significant components of these are: such as the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of each operating company are required to review internal controls and to return a self-certified internal control questionnaire confirming the effectiveness of internal control systems: each operating company deploys a variety of risk identification and assessment processes and develops mitigating actions.
Major, high or medium risks are escalated and progress on action plans reviewed at least quarterly as part of management meetings.
The Board reviews every six months the major and high risks and monitors progress against action plans.
as part of its audit visits to operating companies the internal audit function evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the findings of the internal audit process: the Audit Committee has specific responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the process of assessing the internal controls on behalf of the Board: and the Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identified and assessed by operating units, operational management and the Board.
