Statement on Corporate Governance This statement sets out how the Company has applied the Each director has full access to the advice and services of main and supporting principles of good governance set out the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the in Section 1 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Chairman, is responsible for maintaining good information Governance, and whether or not the Company has flows within the Board and its committees, assisting with complied throughout its accounting period with the induction and keeping the directors informed about provisions of Section 1 of the revised Combined Code.
changes to their duties and responsibilities, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment and THE BOARD removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Board as a whole.
Chief Executive, the Finance Director and four All directors are entitled to take independent professional non-executive directors.
The Board considers that advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys three of the current non-executive directors, expense, if the need should arise.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, are independent in character An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and judgment, and meet the criteria for independence set and its strategic and business plans is provided for out in the revised Combined Code.
The Company Secretary also biographical details are set out on pages 26 and 27. provides detailed information on directors legal duties and The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves responsibilities on appointment, and updates the Board on the Group's long-term goals and strategies and provides a regular basis with regards to regulatory changes overall financial and organisational control.
The Board has a affecting the directors and the Groups operations formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for generally.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups consideration and approval, including: approval of the businesses and the matters affecting the market in which Groups corporate plan: approval of the annual operating they operate.
The Company meets the cost of appropriate budgets: acquisitions, disposals and major capital external training for directors, the requirement for which is expenditure: financing and treasury: pensions: reviewing the kept under review by the Chairman.
During the year, the Groups systems of financial control and risk management: Board received specific training on the revised directors approving appointments to the Board and approving duties introduced by the Companies Act 2006. policies relating to directors remuneration: and maintaining The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief an effective dialogue with shareholders.
All directors take Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The division of responsibilities The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and their Executive Committee, including: implementation of the respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and Groups strategies and policies as determined by the Board: agreed by the Board.
monitoring of operational and financial results against In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is budget: allocation of resources across the Group within the responsible for: ensuring that the Board is kept properly overall plan approved by the Board: capital expenditure informed and is consulted on all decisions reserved to it: within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and promoting constructive relations between the executive implementing risk management systems.
Further details of and non-executive directors: ensuring that the the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this development needs of directors are identified and the report covering Board Committees.
performance of the Board evaluated on a regular basis: and Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation ensuring effective communication with shareholders and and timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of meeting, to ensure that directors have sufficient shareholders are communicated to the Board.
The information to make expedient and considered decisions in Chairman has no significant business commitments other fulfilment of their fiduciary duties.
Where directors have than his chairmanship of the Company.
concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of The non-executive directors perform an essential role in the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively recorded in the Board minutes.
participate in the development of strategic objectives and 40 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 monitor the performance of executive management in directors letters of appointment are available for inspection achieving these objectives.
The non-executive directors on request to the Company Secretary.
also review financial performance, and consider the In accordance with the revised Combined Code and the integrity of the financial information produced by the Companys Articles of Association, all directors submit Group and whether the financial controls and risk themselves for re-election every three years.
The papers management systems are robust and defensible.
They accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting meet periodically with the management of the Groups include a statement from the Chairman confirming that the operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board performance of each non-executive director seeking meetings, the three independent non-executive directors re-election at the meeting continues to be effective and are the members of the standing committees set up to deal that each such director continues to demonstrate with audit and the remuneration of executive directors and commitment to their role.
The Board considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive influence which A full formal evaluation of the performance of the Board exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into account and its committees was undertaken towards the end of last its size and status.
This was updated by way of an informal review by the Chairman this year.
In addition, the Chairman and the The Board has not appointed a senior independent director, non-executive directors considered the individual as it does not consider this to be appropriate at the present performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director time in view of the size of the Board.
as part of the annual remuneration review.
Similarly, the During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with performance of the Chairman was considered by the the non-executive directors without the executives present.
non-executive directors during the annual review of his remuneration, and the Chairman and the Chief Executive Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and reviewed the performance of the non-executive directors.
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all have letters of appointment During the year the Board continued to address the covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment improvements to succession planning that were identified and expected time commitment.
These letters of by last years formal Board evaluation.
appointment provide for a three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party The Company maintains directors and officers liability upon three months written notice.
The non-executive insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
MEETINGS ATTENDANCE The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee 12 meetings 3 meetings 0 meetings 7 meetings K C Scobie 12 12 - - 7 7 D R Evans 11 12 - - - The Rt Hon Lord Freeman 11 12 3 3 - 7 7 I F R Much 11 12 3 3 - 7 7 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 11 12 3 3 - 7 7 D J Price 12 12 - - - P A Rayner 12 12 - - - One Audit Committee meeting was held in November, shortly after the year end.
The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown in brackets.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 41 Statement on Corporate Governance CONTINUED reviewing the potential impact in the Groups financial BOARD COMMITTEES statements of certain matters such as impairments of The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the fixed asset values and International Financial Reporting Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee Standards: are posted on the Companys website and are available on reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2006 and request from the Company Secretary.
2007 financial statements and 2007 interim results, including key risks on the accounts, confirmation of AUDIT COMMITTEE auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served as reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal members of the Audit Committee during the year.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman is Chairman of the Committee.
During the year under review, the Company appointed an The Committee meets three times a year and operates Internal Auditor.
The initial internal audit programme within formal written terms of reference.
As referred to focussed on a review of financial controls across the Group.
above, the terms of reference are available on the It is intended to widen these activities to include an audit of Companys website.
Meetings of the Committee are certain non-financial controls and procedures over the attended, at the invitation of the Committee, by the course of this year.
external auditors, the Chairman, the Finance Director and representatives from the Group finance and internal audit The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation function.
The Committee meets with the auditors on a that Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed for re-appointment regular basis without executive directors present.
The as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and The Committee keeps under review the level of non-audit minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
services which are provided by the external auditors, to The Committee is authorised to seek any information it ensure that this does not impair their independence and requires from any employee of the Company in order to objectivity.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance perform its duties, and to obtain any outside legal or other Director, also ensures that the Group maintains a sufficient professional advice it requires at the Companys expense.
choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
During the year, work on corporate finance matters was sourced from The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups the external auditors only where there was no direct financial statements and the effectiveness of the external conflict with their role as external auditors and where there audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an were clear efficiencies and value added benefits for the appropriate relationship between the Group and the Company.
Details of the amounts paid to the external external auditors is maintained, including reviewing nonauditors during the year for audit and other services are audit services and fees.
The Committee keeps under set out in the notes to the financial statements on page 60. review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual NOMINATION COMMITTEE basis, considers the need for a dedicated internal audit function.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all reference and its effectiveness, and recommends to the served on the Nomination Committee during the year.
Board any changes required as the result of such review.
Mr Scobie is Chairman of the Committee but, in accordance with the Committees terms of reference, is not permitted During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing with the of reference, discharged its responsibilities by: appointment of his successor.
As referred to above, the reviewing the Groups draft 2006 financial statements Committees terms of reference are available on the and 2007 interim results statement prior to Board Companys website.
approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors to the Board, the Committee considers the reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting specific knowledge and expertise which would be of benefit policies, and reviewing various accounting matters to the Groups current operations and future strategy, and raised by management and the external auditors in the provides a brief to external search agents based upon its context of financial disclosures: 42 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 conclusions.
The search agents put forward a short list of shareholders or address any concerns at the Annual candidates for the Committee to interview before making General Meeting.
At other times of the year, the directors its recommendations to the Board.
The Board interviews can be contacted via the Companys head office.
preferred candidates prior to making any formal offers of All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual appointment.
report and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of REMUNERATION COMMITTEE proxy votes received for and against each resolution, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, together with the number of abstentions, are indicated after Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss and Mr Scobie all served on votes have been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Notice the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Mr Much is of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met seven least twenty working days before the meeting.
Further details on the Committee and the Companys policy on directors remuneration are FINANCIAL REPORTING included within the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and accounting records EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE maintained by the Company is set out on page 30.
The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
The other members are INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Business MANAGEMENT Development Director, the Managing Director of the The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the European Energetics Division and the President of the Groups systems of internal control, including financial, Groups US operations.
The Executive Committee is operational and compliance controls, and risk management responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the systems.
Company, submission to the Board of strategic plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and monitoring the The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
systems of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these systems, which are designed to meet RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the Groups particular needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the systems can only provide The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Groups assets.
presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
However, the systems of internal control, the Board has taken into non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to meet consideration the following key features of the Groups risk with major shareholders and attend meetings if so management systems and control procedures which requested by major shareholders.
No such requests were operated during the year: received during the year.
Communication with private The Board assesses the key risks associated with investors is achieved largely through the medium of the achievement of the Groups business objectives as part interim report and the financial statements.
of the annual strategic planning process.
Out of this process, each business establishes a five year plan and The Companys website www.
co. uk provides annual budget, which are subject to approval by the financial and business information on the Group.
The performance of each business against The directors are provided with reports and other written budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at briefings from the Companys principal shareholders and both operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of analysts, and are regularly informed by the Company strategic business objectives and the associated risks are Secretary about changes to significant shareholdings.
monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which and make themselves available to take questions from are attended by at least one main Board director, either CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 43 Statement on Corporate Governance CONTINUED in person or, in the case of the overseas companies, by revised Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in video conference.
In the case of the US businesses, place throughout the year and have remained in place up formal Board meetings are held quarterly and these are to the date of approval of these financial statements.
attended by main Board directors and external Notwithstanding this, the Board will continue to take steps non-executive directors appointed in the US.
The US to embed internal control and risk management further non-executive directors are available to provide into the operations of the Group and to deal with any areas guidance and monitor governance in the US businesses of improvement which come to the attention of throughout the year.
Each business is required to comply with the Groups COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS accounting policy manual, which sets out formal OF THE REVISED COMBINED CODE procedures for incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual commitments.
Compliance with Throughout the year ended 31 October 2007, the Company the accounting policy manual is reviewed by both the has been in compliance with the code provisions set out in Audit Committee and the full Board.
Section 1 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group.
June 2006, with the following exceptions references to the Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and relevant sections of the revised Combined Code are given significant legal matters are dealt with centrally from the in brackets : Group head office, and the Board receives regular reports The Board has not nominated a non-executive director on each of these items.
Reviews of the Groups pensions, as the senior independent director as it does not insurance and risk management arrangements are consider this to be appropriate at the present time in carried out by external advisors on a regular basis.
view of the size of the Board.
This requirement will be A dedicated Group Health, Safety and Environment kept under review A.
Manager, supported by two divisional Health and Safety Mr Scobies appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the not for a specified term: however, he is subject to activities of each business in relation to health and safety retirement by rotation A.
7.2. and environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in view of the nature of the Groups operations.
GOING CONCERN The Chief Executive is the Board member nominated with The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on specific responsibility for health and safety.
The Chief going concern and, after making appropriate enquiries, Executive meets formally with health and safety have formed a judgment at the time of approving the professionals from each business on an annual basis.
financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a that the Company has adequate resources to continue in quarterly basis.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the Company Secretary, the Business Development Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern Director, the Managing Director of the Energetics Division basis in preparing the financial statements.
and the President of the Groups US operations serve on the Committee.
The Committee reviews the key risks Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 January 2008 associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
It reports biannually to the Board on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and S L ELLARD monitors the actions being taken to mitigate these.
SECRETARY The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management which were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2007, and it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management compliant with the 44 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
