LOCATIONS HIGHLIGHTS CHAIRMANS YOUR SPACE BUSINESS FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS STATEMENT PARTNER REVIEW REVIEW Report on Corporate Governance Introduction The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate governance reflected in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
This report describes how the Company complies with the provisions of the Code.
Compliance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 the Company has been in compliance with the Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board and its Principal Committees The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board consists of seven Directors: three executives and four Non-Executives.
The Board considers David White, David Ross, and Jonathan Short to be wholly independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement throughout the year.
David Ross increased his shareholding in the Company during the year to in excess of 9%.
The Board believes that Mr Ross remains independent as his interests are totally aligned with those of external shareholders.
On 30 March 2007 the Group announced that Philip Burks, the Property Director of the Group, was to stand down as an Executive Director and become a Non-Executive Director of the Group.
His shareholding in the Group is 7.7%.
The Board does not consider that Philip Burks is an independent Non-Executive, given that he was a co-founder of the Group and was an Executive Director from September 1998.
David White is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Given the size of the Company, and its ownership structure, we believe the proportion of independent Non-Executives to be appropriate.
All the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to Board deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The biographical details of the Directors of the Group are set out on page 35.
Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the Executive Chairmans role is to provide continuity, experience, governance and strategic advice, while the Chief Executive provides leadership, drives the day-to-day operations of the business, and works with the Chairman on overall strategy: the Chairman, working with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders: the Board believes that the Chairman and the Chief Executive work effectively together to provide effective and complimentary stewardship: the Chairman must: take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: and consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive must: manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities: prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver agreed strategy: and ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
21 Report on Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure where appropriate the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The current full terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman David White Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director David Ross Non-Executive Director Jonathan Short Non-Executive Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director Adrian Lee Operations Director Philip Burks Property Director to 30 March 2007, Non-Executive Director from 30 March 2007 Company Secretary: Michael Cole Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Board and its committees is shown in the table below: Remuneration Nominations Board Audit committee Committee Committee Director 7 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting Nicholas Vetch 7 David White 7321 David Ross 621 Jonathan Short 7321 James Gibson 7 Adrian Lee 7 Philip Burks 3 The Board meets on a regular basis approximately once every two months to discuss a whole range of significant matters including strategic decisions, major asset acquisitions and performance.
A procedure to enable Directors to take independent professional advice if required has been agreed by the Board and formally confirmed by all Directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention including the approval of Group strategy and policies: major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and financing, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other than in the normal course of business.
The Board also considers matters of non-financial risk.
At each Board meeting the latest available financial information is produced which consists of detailed management accounts with the relevant comparisons to budget.
A current trading appraisal is given by the Executive Directors.
Each member of the Board is subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles of Association, which requires them to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In the event of a proposal to appoint a new Director, this would be discussed at a full Board meeting, with each member being given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision being taken.
A performance evaluation of the board and its individual members took place during the year.
The Chairman evaluated the performance of the Executive Directors, and the performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
It was considered that the individuals and the Board as a whole were operating effectively.
Nichols Vetch, Philip Burks and David White are being proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the performance evaluation above, the Committee has determined that their performance continues to be effective, and that they have demonstrated commitment to the role.
22 Report on Corporate Governance continued Training and Development All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditors where appropriate.
During the year under review, this has included consideration of Directors responsibilities, the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Rules, the market abuse regime, the Transparency Directive and the Companies Act 2006.
The professional development requirements of Executive Directors are identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own professional development.
Each year, the programme of senior management meetings is tailored to enable meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During the year, the senior management team made visits to all of the Groups open stores.
Audit Committee David White Chairman David Ross Jonathan Short The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives papers for consideration in advance of the meeting.
The papers reflect the agenda prepared by the Company Secretary in conjunction with the Committee Chairman.
There are a number of standing items considered during the year such as consideration of the external audit reports, review of the preliminary and interim announcements, and review of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Other items that have been considered during the year include the conversion to REIT status, a review of risk management processes, consideration of major risks identified by this process, and consideration of the external auditors fees.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by certain Executive Directors and the external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Outside of the meeting process the Committee Chairman has regular contact with the Executive Directors, other committee members and the auditors on a variety of topics.
The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the independence of the external auditors.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into account the safeguards operating within Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit Committee considers on a case by case basis whether or not the external audit firm should be permitted to carry out other services for the Company.
The two key principles applied are: firstly, whether the provision by the auditors of that service would compromise their independence in any material way: and secondly whether it would otherwise be inappropriate for them to be engaged, for example in relation to any material accounting irregularities or significant fraud that had previously not been detected during an audit carried out by that firm.
Additionally, the external auditors are specifically prevented from providing accounting, internal audit and valuation services to the Group.
Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the work undertaken and are not success related.
Regard is paid to the nature of, and remuneration received, for other services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to the Group and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, the auditors remuneration comprised 138,000 for audit work and 53,000 for other work, principally relating to REIT conversion.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors issued in September 2002 by the Auditing Practices Board and, having considered the recommendations of the briefing paper with the external auditors, has concluded that the relationship between the Audit Committee and Deloitte & Touche LLP is in accordance with the objectives contained in the briefing paper.
The Committee have reviewed the arrangements for whistleblowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy in the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy is included in the employee handbook.
Remuneration Committee David White Chairman David Ross Jonathan Short The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The Committee will ensure that the contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration policy and details of each Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
23 Report on Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee David White Chairman David Ross Jonathan Short The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and giving consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Where changes are required, it is also responsible for the identification, selection and proposal to the Board for approval of persons suitable for appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether as Executive or Non-Executive Directors and to seek approval from the Remuneration Committee to the remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any proposed Executive Director appointment.
The Chairman of the Committee presents reports to the Board as appropriate to enable the Board as a whole to agree the appointments of new Directors.
The committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as required and as determined by its members.
Shareholder Relations The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all shareholders.
The Board acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue by both executive and Non-Executive Directors with its institutional shareholders and communicates regularly with them throughout the year through both formal and informal meetings.
The Board also welcomes the interest of private investors and believes that, in addition to the Annual Report and the Companys website, the Annual General Meeting is an ideal forum at which to communicate with investors and the Board encourages their participation.
Any queries raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are answered immediately by whoever is best placed on the Board to do so.
Directors are introduced to shareholders at the AGM, including the identification of Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The number of proxy votes cast in the resolution is announced at the AGM.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The system of internal control was in place throughout the financial year and to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group operates a rigorous system of internal control, which is designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a minimum.
There is a comprehensive system in place for financial reporting and the Board receives a number of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in the most efficient manner.
These procedures include the preparation of management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other ad hoc reports.
There are clearly defined authority limits throughout the Group, including those matters which are reserved specifically for the Board.
A formal risk identification and assessment exercise has been carried out resulting in a risk framework document summarising the key risks, potential impact and the mitigating factors or controls in place.
The Executive have a stated policy of reviewing this risk framework at least once a year or in the event of a material change.
The risk identification process also considered significant non-financial risks.
During the reviews, the Executive Directors: challenged the framework to ensure that the list of significant risks to business objectives is still valid and complete: considered new and emerging risks to business objectives and included them in the framework if significant: ensured that any changes in the impact or likelihood of the risks are reflected in the risk framework: and ensured that there are appropriate action plans in place to address unacceptable risks.
The results of the exercise have been communicated to the Board and the Audit Committee.
This was in the form of a summary report which included: a prioritised summary of the key risks and their significance: any changes in the list of significant risks or their impact and likelihood since the last assessment: new or emerging risks that may become significant objectives in the future: progress on action plans to address significant risks: and any actual or potential control failures weaknesses during the period including near misses.
The Group does not have an internal audit function because the Board has concluded that the internal controls systems discussed above are sufficient for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Control Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial controls.
He reports to the Group Financial Controller.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Assessment section of the Business Review on page 11.
24 Report on Corporate Governance continued Going Concern The Directors report that based on the Groups budgets and financial projections, they have satisfied themselves that the business is a going concern.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources and facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore the accounts are prepared on the going concern basis.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
