CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice BL Board performance evaluation The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions The formal Board Performance Appraisal process requires each of the Code of Best Practice and the Principles of Good Governance director to give detailed input annually, the results of which are set out in section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code.
considered by the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Board as appropriate and relevant consequential Board effectiveness changes made.
The directors listed on page 60 constituted the Board throughout the The Senior Independent Non-executive Director discusses year, except that Sir Derek Higgs, Patrick Vaughan and John Weston the performance of the Chairman with other directors annually, Smith retired from the Board on 14 July 2006: Sir John Ritblat or more frequently as necessary.
The Chairman meets with each retired on 31 December 2006: Andrew Jones and Tim Roberts were non-executive director annually to discuss their contribution.
The appointed on 14 July 2006: and Clive Cowdery and John Travers Chairman provides the Remuneration Committee with a written were appointed on 10 May 2007.
The Board is responsible for the appraisal of the Chief Executives performance for the year.
Similarly strategy and effective control and management of the Group.
There the Chief Executive provides the Remuneration Committee with a is a written division of responsibilities at the head of the Company written assessment of executive directors performance.
between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
There is a formal schedule of matters Committees of the Board specifically reserved for Board approval, which includes approval The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of the annual and interim accounts, the approval of authority levels Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, which below the Board and material acquisitions, disposals and financing are made available on the Companys website www.
The Board delegates authority to the Approvals and their minutes are circulated to the Board.
The Audit and Committee of the Board, which consists of the executive directors Remuneration Committees are entirely composed of independent of the Company, in respect of certain transactions within defined, non-executive directors.
Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent limited parameters.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings Non-executive Director.
together with further meetings as required by the ongoing business Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2007 of the Company.
The executive directors and senior executives who whereis shown, the director listed is not a member of the Committee comprise the Executive Committee meet weekly, chaired by the Nomination Audit Remuneration Chief Executive, to deal with the ongoing management of the Group.
Name Board Committee Committee Committee 1 The Chairman of the Board and individual directors meet Chris Gibson-Smith 61 2 3 2 regularly, outside formal Board meetings, as part of each directors Sir John Ritblat 4 Stephen Hester 6 continuing contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy and Robert Bowden 6 superior returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for open Michael Cassidy 5 two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its 3 Sir Derek Higgs 2 2 4 committees and individual directors, both executive and nonAndrew Jones 4 executive.
By this means the Chairman is continuously aware of the Sir David Michels 4 1 4 3 Graham Roberts 6 views of individual directors and can act as necessary to deal with 4 Tim Roberts 4 any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they can become Kate Swann 5 2 a risk to the Company.
Robert Swannell 6 1 4 There is a strong and independent non-executive element on Lord Turnbull 6 4 3 5 the Board as shown by the details of directors on page 60.
PatrickVaughan 2 5 John Weston Smith 2 No.
of meetings during the year 6 1 4 3 1 Three Audit Committee meetings held during Committee membership to 31 December 2006 2 Four Board meetings held during Board membership to 31 December 2006 3 Two Board and two Remuneration Committee meetings held during Board membership to 14 July 2006 4 Four Board meetings held since Board appointment on 14 July 2006 5 Two Board meetings held during Board membership to 14 July 2006 The British Land Company PLC 61 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Non-executive directors The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making The Board considers that Michael Cassidy, Clive Cowdery, Sir David recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and Michels, Kate Swann, Robert Swannell, Lord Turnbull and John succession planning.
It consists of Chris Gibson-Smith, Sir David Travers are independent non-executive directors.
In making this Michels and Robert Swannell.
determination the Board has considered whether each director is During the year the Nomination Committee conducted a search, independent in character and judgement and whether there are with the assistance of consultants, to recruit two new non-executive relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could directors.
In consequence, Clive Cowdery and John Travers were affect, the directors judgement.
The Board believes that it is evident appointed to the Board on 10 May 2007. from consideration of the non-executive directorsbiographies The Nomination Committee during the year has also considered, detailed on page 60 that they are of the integrity and stature to inter alia, the constituency of the Boards committees and the perform their roles of independent non-executive directors.
renewal of non-executive directors letters of appointment.
Notwithstanding that Michael Cassidy has served on the Board for eleven years, the Board does not consider that, given his integrity Remuneration policy and Committee and stature, this affects his independence.
He will retire from the Details of the Group remuneration policy and Committee are set Board at the 2007 AGM.
out in the remuneration report on pages 65 to 73.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Audit Committee office and at the AGM.
The Audit Committee meets regularly during the year.
It has been chaired by Robert Swannell throughout the year and includes two Internal control other non-executive directors, Sir David Michels and Lord Turnbull.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound system The Committees responsibilities include: of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal control monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the provisions of the FRC 2003 Combined Code through a continuous Company and any formal announcements relating to the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Companys financial performance: the Group faces.
The process has been in place throughout the year, reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report, and Companys internal control and risk management systems: the Group has been in compliance with the code provisions set out monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys in Section 1 of the FRC 2003 Combined Code on Corporate internal audit function: Governance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of making recommendations to the Board in relation to the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system appointment of the external auditor and approving the is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence, not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
objectivity and effectiveness: The Group applies two fundamental control principles: reviewing and monitoring the valuation process: and a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the and external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material relevant ethical guidance.
commitments are entered into without competent and proper authorisation by more than one approved executive.
The Audit Committee has undertaken each of the above responsibilities during the year on which it has received and reviewed In compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board relevant reports from management, the valuers, the internal and the continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of external auditors.
It has agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews internal control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of the of various of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, internal control system that operated throughout the period covered and has reviewed the results of those reviews already completed.
by the accounts are described below.
Rotation of directors Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director retires at the third Annual General Meeting AGM after the general meeting at which he was last elected.
62 62 The British Land Company PL The British Land Company PLC C Corporate Governance Identification and evaluation of commercial risks Investor Relations and related control objectives The directors place considerable importance on maintaining open British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, and clear communication with investors.
The Companys Investor which has identified over 50 individual risks that affect the Group.
Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with The responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly shareholders.
The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors and meetings between the executive directors and its shareholders, and senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, close involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the the market, management and governance are discussed within Group.
In addition to the main Board of directors, frequent meetings the constraints of the information already known to the market.
of the executive directors take place to review the Groups activities, In addition, the Company undertakes regular roadshows to the specific areas of which are also considered by operational boards.
US and Europe and participates in sector conferences.
These include: The directors consider it is important to understand the views of Group management and operations: shareholders, and at each scheduled Board meeting the directors management of property assets: receive a written report of the major issues which have been raised with management of development activities: and management.
Meetings are also held between shareholders and the financing activities.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director and other non-executive directors, and the Company facilitates such meetings on request.
The Board, the executive directors and the operational boards During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed consider the risk implications of business decisions.
These include of the progress of the Company through results statements and matters such as new treasury products and major transactions.
The other announcements that are released through the London Stock control environment is supported by the various committees of the Exchange and other news services.
Company announcements and Board and the operational boards, including the Audit Committee, the presentations are made available simultaneously on our website, Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Derivatives Committee.
affording all shareholders full access to material information.
The way each risk is managed within the Group is considered at least Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company annually by the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
The at any time through a facility on the website.
Group reassesses these risks on a regular basis to ensure that any Additionally there is an opportunity at the AGM for individual risk arising from changes in the Groups operations or the external shareholders to question the Chairman and the Chairmen of the environment are identified and appropriately managed.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At the meeting, In order to provide relevant and timely information to the the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to executives responsible for managing risks, the Group has the voting, including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions, the following key information systems which generate reports as follows: attendance of committee chairmen and voting by poll.
The Annual a management reporting system which includes regular working Report and Notice of Meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 capital reports and forecasts: working days prior to the AGM.
The voting results are announced to operational reporting on property purchases, sales and portfolio the London Stock Exchange and are available on the website and on management: and request.
In July 2006, all AGM resolutions were passed on a poll and regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
were approved by substantial majorities in excess of 95% in each case.
Monitoring Going concern The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has rise to significant financial exposure the directors are satisfied that agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups no material or significant exposures exist, other than as reflected processes and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the in these financial statements, and that the Group has adequate results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
The Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Group continues to adopt the going concern basis and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Financial Reporting: Guidance for Directors of listed companies registered in the United Kingdom published in November 1994.
The British Land Company PLC 63 Corporate Governance Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent with applicable law and regulations.
company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRSs detection of fraud and other irregularities.
as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys in other jurisdictions.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events Auditors and valuers and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The Committee International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the is specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: of the audit.
With respect to other services provided by the auditors properly select and apply accounting policies: the following framework is in place: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable providing audit related services, which include formal reporting information: and relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and requirements in IFRSs are insufficientto enable usersto understand disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions office or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
In other on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: Tax advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial provide tax advisory services, including the preparation and statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted submission of tax returns.
The selection depends on who is Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and best suited in the circumstances: applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are General consulting the auditors do not provide general required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors only after consideration that they are best placed to provide are required to: the service and that their independence and objectivity would : not be compromised.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out in note 5 on page 89. state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and by the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of explained in the financial statements.
changing requirements and best practice.
64 The British Land Company PLC
