Corporate governance report Introduction The responsibilities, which the Board has delegated, are given to The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys committees that operate within specified terms of reference and shareholders for the management and control of the Companys authority limits, which are reviewed annually or in response to a activities and is committed to high standards of corporate change in circumstances.
An Executive Directors Committee meets governance.
This report and the directors remuneration report set on a weekly basis and deals with all major decisions of the Group out on pages 31 to 36 describe how the Company complies with not requiring full Board approval or authorisation by other Board the provisions of the June 2006 Financial Reporting Council committees.
The Executive Directors Committee is quorate with Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
four executive directors in attendance: if decisions are not unanimous the matter is referred to the Board for approval.
Statement of compliance Minutes from the Executive Directors Committee meetings The Company has complied throughout the year ended are circulated to the Board.
30 December 2007, except where otherwise explained, with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued The Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee consist by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006. solely of non-executive directors and meet at least twice a year.
The Company recognises that the Nomination Committee did Application of the principles not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors The Board of Directors as required by Section A.
4.1 of the Code until December 2007.
Details of the directors are set out on page 26.
The Company is The Company appointed Manjit Wolstenholme to the Nominations controlled through the Board of Directors which comprised the Committee on 10 December 2007.
Chairman, six executive and five non-executive directors until 29 June 2007, and comprised the Chairman, five executive and The Board schedules five meetings each year, as a minimum, five non-executive directors thereafter.
The Board recognises that and arranges further meetings as the business requires.
Prior to from the beginning of the year until 29 June 2007, its balance each Board meeting, each member receives up-to-date financial did not comply with the requirements of the Code in respect of and commercial information in respect of the divisions, and Section A.
3.2 which requires at least half the Board, excluding the specifically, management accounts budgets and forecasts, details Chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
of acquisitions and disposals and relevant appraisals prior Board approval being required for large transactions and cash flow The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the forecasts and details of funding availability.
current Board composition provides an appropriate balance of power and authority within the Company.
The Nomination All members of the Board are subject to the re-election provisions Committee will however continue to review this position.
in the Articles which require them to offer themselves for All the Companys non-executive directors act independently re-election at least once every three years and at the first AGM of management and the Board considers that all the non-executive after appointment, if appointed after the last AGM.
Details of those directors are independent.
The terms and conditions of directors offering themselves for re-appointment are set out in the appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection directors report on page 27. at the Companys registered office.
A performance evaluation of the Board and the committees P Stobart continued to serve as the Senior Independent is conducted each year with each director giving detailed input.
Director as required by the Combined Code for the year ended The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, 30 December 2007. with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The non-executive directors meet annually without the The Company has well established differentiation between Chairman in order to appraise his performance.
This meeting the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, and has written terms is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman of reference which have been approved by the Board.
evaluates the performance of the remaining directors and the results of the appraisals are analysed and summarised by the In the Companys view, the breadth of experience and knowledge Senior Independent Director and discussed with the Chairman.
of the Chairman and the non-executive directors detachment from Subsequently, the results are discussed by the Board and relevant the day-to-day issues within the Company provide a sufficiently consequential changes are made.
strong and experienced balance with the executive members of the Board.
The breadth of experience attributed to the non-executive Induction training is given to all new directors appointed in the directors, allied to the management information provided by the Company and consists of an introduction to the Board, onsite visits Company, enables them to assess and advise the full Board on to properties managed by the Group, introduction to the divisional the major risks faced by the Company.
In accordance with the teams, an induction pack and access to independent advisers.
Combined Code the Company considers all its non-executive The ongoing training requirements of the directors are reviewed directors are independent.
on a regular basis and undertaken individually, as necessary, although it is recognised that all members of the Board experience The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its continuous professional development from working together.
decision and a schedule of matters delegated to committees, This is achieved by virtue of the dynamic and diverse mix of the both of which are reviewed at least annually.
The Board reserves Board members, and their sharing of knowledge and experiences approval for all significant or strategic decisions including major gained from a range of commercial backgrounds.
acquisitions, disposals and financing transactions.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice as and Nomination Committee when necessary.
The Committee comprises T Chandos Chairman, P Stobart, M Barber, H Mautner and M Wolstenholme appointed 10 December 2007.
Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 37 Corporate governance report continued The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and There were three Responsible Business Committee meetings during recommend to the Board suitable candidates for both executive the year.
and non-executive appointments to the Board.
On an annual basis, the Nomination Committee also considers succession planning Responsible Business Committee meetings for the Board.
During the year, the Committee considered the succession of the Chief Executive.
M Barber was a member of Attendance the Committee but stood aside for the consideration of the new A Coppin 3 Chief Executive.
The Board members are given an opportunity X Pullen 3 to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision.
W Sunnucks 3 A Lewis-Pratt 1 The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Board and committee meetings Directors remuneration The number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and individual Board, within existing terms of reference, on remuneration policy attendance by directors, is set out below: and determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each executive director.
The statement of remuneration There were six full Board meetings during the year, five of which policy and details of each directors remuneration are set out in were scheduled meetings and one was an ad-hoc meeting.
the directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 36.
Board meetings attendance Shareholder relations The Company has always encouraged regular dialogue with its Scheduled Ad hoc Total institutional shareholders and private investors at the AGM, and meetings meetings attendance through corporate functions and property visits.
The Company also attends roadshows in the US and Europe, and participates in T Chandos 5 16 M Barber 5 1 6 sector conferences.
In addition, following the announcement of X Pullen 5 1 6 preliminary and interim results, and throughout the year, as W Sunnucks 5 1 6 requested, the Company holds update meetings with institutional H Mautner 3 0 3 K Ford 5 1 6 shareholders.
All the directors are accessible to all shareholders, PY Gerbeau 5 1 6 and queries received verbally or in writing are immediately P Stobart 5 1 6 addressed.
The directors are introduced to shareholders at the A Lewis-Pratt 0 0 0 A Coppin 4 0 4 AGM each year and the non-executive directors and committee P Newton 5 1 6 chairmen are clearly identified.
M Wolstenholme 5 1 6 Announcements are made to the London Stock Exchange and There were five Audit Committee meetings during the year.
the business media concerning business developments to provide wider dissemination of information.
In particular, monthly Audit Committee meetings announcements of fund unit valuations provide a regular update on the progress of the business.
Registered shareholders are sent Attendance copies of both the annual report and accounts and the interim report.
The Company is proposing a resolution at the AGM to permit P Stobart 5 the Company to use website communication as a means of A Coppin 3 M Wolstenholme 5 communication with shareholders.
Accountability and audit There were four Remuneration Committee meetings during the year.
Financial reporting Remuneration Committee meetings The Companys annual report and accounts includes detailed reviews of the activities of each division, together with a detailed Attendance review of their financial results and financing position.
In this way, and as required by the Combined Code, the Board seeks to present M Wolstenholme 4 a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys P Stobart 3 P Newton 4 position and prospects.
Internal control There was one Nomination Committee meeting during the year.
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and risk management, to safeguard shareholders Nomination Committee meetings investment and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to Attendance achieve business objectives.
There are inherent limitations in any T Chandos 1 control system and, accordingly, even the most effective system P Stobart 1 can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against M Barber 0 H Mautner 1 material misstatement or loss.
The key risks identified are set out M Wolstenholme appointed 10 December 2007 0 on page 3 of the business review.
38 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on The Companys policy is that the audit firm must not be in a internal control, an ongoing process has been established for position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in This process has been in place for the year under review to the date the best interests of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews and of approval of these financial statements.
Each year the Board makes recommendations to the Board for the re-appointment of conducts a review of the effectiveness of the current system of the Groups external auditors.
In order to maintain independence internal control.
the audit partner of the Groups external auditors is subject to rotation at regular intervals.
The Audit Committee normally meets The Group has undertaken a comprehensive risk and controls five times a year: there is one meeting to approve the audit plan review for the year involving interviews with each divisional and two for each of the interim and final announcements.
The first management team, which has identified the principal risks facing of the pre-announcement meetings is held early enough to allow the Group and its individual divisions.
BDO, a major auditing firm, the Committee members to have real input into the presentation assisted the Group in carrying out the review.
An updated risk map of the accounts.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports back and internal control matrix have been produced for each division to the Board on the key conclusions.
in the Group, clearly outlining the principal risks and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Each risk The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the has been evaluated in terms of its impact on the business and the financial year as follows: likelihood of it occurring, and responsibility for the management of each risk has been clearly identified.
Financial reporting: during the year the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee Other key features of the Companys system of internal control are received a report from the external auditors setting out as follows: accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on a full audit annual report Defined organisational responsibilities and authority limits and a high level review interim report respectively.
The day-to-day involvement of the Committee also advised the Board on a number of other matters.
executive directors in the running of the business ensures Internal Controls and Risk Management: the Audit Committee that these responsibilities and limits are adhered to.
meets with the external auditors and deals with any significant Financial reporting to the Board including regular reports from internal control matter.
In the year under review the Committee the Fund Manager of The Mall, The Junction and X-Leisure Funds met with the external auditors on five occasions.
The Audit and for the Group as a whole, including the preparation of Committee received a paper from BDO on the internal controls budgets and forecasts, cash management, variance analysis, of the Company.
property, taxation and treasury reports and a report on financing.
Internal Audit: The Group does not have an internal audit function.
It has employed BDO, as explained earlier, to carry out The Company has established a whistleblowing policy to enable a Group risks and control review.
In addition, it also employed employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty IRS, an experienced firm of risk surveyors, to review cash and or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
security controls at selected locations.
This falls short of a full internal audit function as the Company believes that a need for Steps are continuously being taken to embed internal control and such a function does not currently exist.
The Audit Committee risk management further into the operations of the business and to will continue to review the position, but the belief at present deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and is that the current size and complexity of the Group does not the Boards attention.
justify establishing an internal audit function.
Audit Committee Going concern The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive directors, In compliance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services P Stobart Chairman, A Coppin and M Wolstenholme.
Authority the directors can report that, based on the Groups budgets and financial projections, they have satisfied themselves The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available for that the business is a going concern.
The Board has a reasonable inspection on the Companys website.
The role of the Audit expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources Committee is to maintain a relationship with the Groups external and facilities to continue in operational existence for the auditors and to review, in depth, the Companys financial foreseeable future and therefore the accounts are prepared statements, internal financial control and risk management on a going concern basis.
systems and circulars to shareholders in order to monitor financial integrity within the Group.
F Desai Company Secretary The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the 10 April 2008 cost-effectiveness and the volume of non-audit services provided to the Group by its external auditors.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups external auditors undertaking non-audit work, and details of fees paid to the Groups external auditors are detailed on page 53 in note 8 to the accounts.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving audit firms carried out in a manner that affords value for money.
