C orporate governance Compliance Mr Neathercoat has also served as a non-executive director The board supports the principles of good governance and for more than nine years.
The board has therefore reviewed believes that the company has, except as noted, complied his independence and is of the view that he continues to with the main and supporting principle of the Combined show strong independence in both judgement and in the Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial performance of his duties as a director.
This, together with Reporting Council and which is appended to the Listing the fact that he has no association with management that Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The company might compromise his independence, causes the board has not complied with code provision A.
2.2, concerning to conclude that he remains independent.
the independence of the chairman on appointment.
The companys position is described in the following section.
As required under the 2006 Combined Code, the board A number of other code provisions were not applicable in has decided that all non executive directors who have the current year.
served on the board for more than nine years will be subject to re-election annually.
Mr Ivey is due for re-election under The board the rotation provisions in the companys articles of At the start of the year, the board comprised Mr Ivey, the association and Mr Neathercoat will stand for re-election non-executive chairman, five executive directors, Messrs under this new requirement.
Burns, Silver, Odom, George and Williams and three non-executive directors, Messrs Neathercoat, Farnes The directors considered the composition of the board and Corbyn.
On 1st February 2007, when the company and, taking into account the balance between independent acquired London Merchant Securities plc, Mr Friedlos non-executive directors and executive directors, continue to joined the board as an executive director, Mr Rayne was believe that it is suitably structured to satisfy the requirements appointed as non-executive chairman and Mrs fide Moller of good corporate governance.
and Mr Newell joined as non-executive directors.
Mr Friedlos resigned on 18th July 2007.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the chairman, The board assesses the independence of the non-executive who is responsible for the effectiveness of the board, and directors with regard to the guidance on independence the chief executive officer, who is responsible for the day-tocontained in code provision A.
3.1, and notes that Messrs day operations of the business.
Mr Neathercoat is the Rayne, Ivey and Neathercoat cannot automatically be senior independent director.
Biographies of the directors deemed independent.
The board is also aware that code are given on page 97. provision A.
2.2 requires a new chairman to be independent on appointment.
6 of the The board is responsible for setting the companys strategic code, the board has reviewed the roles and performance aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet of all directors and, amongst other matters, reconsidered its objectives and reviewing management performance.
the independence of the non-executive directors.
The formal list of matters reserved for the full boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full Having served in an executive capacity at London Merchant board met six times during the year and six meetings are Securities plc prior to the merger Mr Rayne cannot be scheduled for 2008.
Extra meetings will be arranged if deemed independent.
However, the board continues to necessary.
Additionally, the executive board, which consider that the contribution Mr Rayne makes as chairman consists of the executive directors met 10 times in 2007. of the enlarged board justifies his position.
The board is provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the directors are fully briefed Mr Ivey is not deemed independent, having served on the on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
board for more than nine years.
Again, the board considered his expertise and the manner in which he carried out his Since 1993, the board has maintained a number of board duties during the year and concluded that shareholders committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are should have no concern that his independent judgement available on the groups website.
Set out below are details of is in any way impaired.
the membership and duties of the three principal committees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 83 C orporate governance Remuneration committee Nominations committee The committee comprises of Mr Neathercoat, Mr Corbyn, Mr Ivey is chairman of this committee which consisted Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell under the chairmanship of of all of the non-executive directors, except the chairman.
It is responsible for establishing the companys The committees responsibilities include identifying external remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages candidates for appointment as directors and, subsequently, for the executive directors.
There were five meetings of the recommending their appointment to the board and, if committee in 2007.
The report on directors remuneration requested, making a recommendation concerning an is set out on pages 86 to 94. appointment to the board from within the company.
The committee also carries out the annual appraisal of the Audit committee performance and effectiveness of the board and its three Mr Neathercoat is chairman of the committee, which committees.
The committee met only once during the is served by Mr Corbyn, Mr Farnes, Mrs fide Moller and period under review.
The nominations committee report Mr Newell.
The committee is responsible for considering is on page 97. the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the groups auditors.
The committee met four times during 2007.
The report of the audit committee is on page 96.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations board board committee committee committee Number of meetings 6 10 5 4 1 Executive directors J. D. Burns 6 10 S. P. Silver 6 8 C. J. Odom 6 9 P. M. Williams 6 10 N. Q. George 6 9 N. R. Friedlos 2 5 Non-executive directors R. A. Rayne 6 J. C. Ivey 6 1 S. J. Neathercoat 6 3 4 1 R. A. Farnes 6 5 4 1 S. A. Corbyn 6 4 2 1 D. Newell 6 5 4 1 J. fide Moller 5 5 4 1 F or the period 1st February 2007 to 18th July 2007.
C orporate governance Performance evaluation Internal control During 2007, the nomination committee carried out a The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility formal appraisal of the performance of the board and its for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of committees.
The remuneration committee performed internal control that provides the board with reasonable appraisals of each of the executive directors, as part of the assurance regarding the effective and efficient operations, salary review process.
The performance of the chairman internal financial control and compliance with laws and was evaluated by the non-executive directors under the regulations.
Such a system can only manage business risk, chairmanship of the senior independent director.
All of the not eliminate it, and cannot provide absolute assurance appraisals were conducted internally using questionnaires against material misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the based on the guidance contained in the Higgs Report.
system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified and appropriate Directors remedial measures taken on a timely basis.
Appointment of a director from outside the company is on the recommendation of the nominations committee, whilst A more detailed description of the group risk management internal promotion is a matter decided by the board unless and internal control is included in the business review.
it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the nominations committee.
All new directors The board has considered the need for an internal audit must stand for election at the first annual general meeting function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary following their appointment.
Existing directors must submit given the size and complexity of the group.
themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Going concern If considered appropriate, new directors are sent on an Having made due enquiries, the directors have reasonable external training course addressing their role and duties as expectation that the company has adequate resources to a director of a quoted public company.
Existing directors continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
monitor their own continued professional development and Therefore, the board continues to adopt the going concern are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their basis in preparing the accounts.
market and regulatory knowledge current.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary and any director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the companys expense.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained by the company.
Communication with shareholders The company has always recognised the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, principally by the executive directors, through the giving of presentations and organising visits to the groups property assets.
The board receives regular reports of these meetings.
The annual report, which is sent to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the board committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the board is available through the senior independent director.
