R eport of the audit committee Membership Mr Neathercoat was chairman of the committee with Messrs Corbyn and Farnes serving throughout 2007.
Following the acquisition of London Merchant Securities plc on 1st February 2007 Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell joined the committee.
All members are considered independent by the company having no day-to-day involvement with the company.
Mr Neathercoat is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and considered to have appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee has access to further financial expertise at the companys expense, if required.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the committee are available on the groups website.
Meetings The committee meets at least three times a year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the groups external auditors and the groups finance director when invited.
During 2007, four meetings were held.
Work of the committee During the year, the committee has carried out the following: reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, assumptions adopted and estimates made: held meetings with the groups external valuers: reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees: and considered the adequacy of the auditors statement of independence and monitored the operation of the groups policy regarding the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which helps to protect the auditors independence and objectivity.
A major source of non-audit work each year for the groups auditor is tax compliance work.
The committee has considered this arrangement and continues to be of the opinion that this is an efficient arrangement that does not compromise the auditors independence: recommended the re-appointment of the groups external auditors after due consideration of the conduct of the audit and the matters raised in the management letter: commissioned a review of the operation of the groups systems and controls: considered the need for an internal audit function: and reviewed, commented upon and approved the preparation of the groups risk register.
S. J. Neathercoat Chairman of the audit committee 18th March 2008
