42 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance Statement by the directors on compliance with the the Chairman and the other non-executives meet without provisions of the Combined Code the Executive Directors, and at least three times a year the nonA summary of the system of governance adopted by the executives meet without the Chairman.
In addition, individual Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended directors meet regularly outside the formal Board meetings 31 March 2007, the Company complied with the Code as part of each directors contribution to the delivery of the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Companys strategy and review of operations.
The Executive Corporate governance issued by the Financial Reporting Directors also meet weekly as the Executive Committee, Council in June 2006. chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with the ongoing management of the Group with copies of the minutes The Board of directors of these meetings distributed to the Chairman and The Board comprises the Chairman, four Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for pages 38 to 39.
Richard Peskin, who was Managing Director the day-to-day management of the Company, with the division until March 2000, is non-executive Chairman of the Board, of responsibilities approved by the Board.
Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and Kathleen ODonovan The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management is the Senior Independent Director.
Each of the Non-Executive and control of the Groups activities and good corporate Directors is considered to be independent of the executive governance.
The Board meets for scheduled board meetings management and free from any business or other relationship at least six times a year.
Key matters reserved for the Board which could materially interfere with the exercise of their include: independent judgement.
the setting and monitoring of strategy, including To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive dividend policy: appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property reviewing performance and implementation of the tours.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the strategy by the Executive Directors: Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on treasury policy and significant fundraising: matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and examining major potential acquisitions and disposals: are offered formal training in specific areas relevant to either approving policy on key areas including corporate their speciality or Committee roles or to the Board as a whole.
responsibility, health and safety and the environment: On appointment, new Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to provide a time commitment to the Company of Board appointments and the appointment and removal at least 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction of the Company Secretary: and programme on the Companys operations, including social, annual and interim reporting to shareholders.
ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups At least once a year it reviews the nature and magnitude of main properties.
matters reserved for its decision.
After each Board meeting Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit scheduled other Committee Committee Committee 6 meetings 14 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings Chairman Richard Peskin 6 14 3 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 6 14 Robert Noel 6 14 Timon Drakesmith 6 14 1 Neil Thompson 4 7 Non-Executive Directors Kathleen ODonovan 6 14 3 4 6 John Edgcumbe 6 12 3 Charles Irby 6 11 4 6 Phillip Rose 6 12 2 5 1 Appointed on 1 August 2006.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 43 The Company maintains directors and officers liability previously supplied by external recruitment consultants, insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of Jonathan Short was recommended by the Nomination which are reviewed annually.
Committee for appointment to the Board as a Non-Executive Director from 2 April 2007.
Mr Short, who was Chief Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its Executive Officer of Pramerica Real Estate Investors for seven own performance and that of its Committees and individual years and has worked for Lazard, Barings and Warburgs, is a directors either internally, by the Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc and Chairman or by external consultants.
This year the performance evaluation of the Urban Land Institute in the UK.
The Nomination consisted of each director, including the Chairman, completing Committee believes that the Board will benefit from the a comprehensive questionnaire and then having one-to-one appointment of both Mr Thompson as Development Director, interviews with Kathleen ODonovan as the Senior Independent and Mr Short as a Non-Executive Director.
A suitable Director, assisted by Desna Martin as the Company Secretary.
replacement having been found, Mr Edgcumbe will retire The process covered Board, Committee and personal at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
performance and the output was reviewed at the March Board meeting as part of a wider corporate governance review.
Remuneration Committee Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Charles Irby continued to operate effectively with appropriate procedures Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Kathleen ODonovan, has put in place for minor areas identified for improvement.
responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Directors, and the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also Committees which deal with specific aspects of the Groups considers and establishes Company policy on remuneration, affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which with access to professional advice outside the Company, as are regularly reviewed and which deal with their authorities required.
Its role is described further in the Directors and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available remuneration report on pages 45 to 49.
On Mr Edgcumbes on written request and on the Companys website.
retirement, Mr Short will replace Mr Edgcumbe as a member Nomination Committee of the Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan Audit Committee Chairman, Phillip Rose and Richard Peskin.
It undertakes an The Audit Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan annual review of succession planning for Senior Executives and Chairman, Charles Irby and Phillip Rose.
Miss ODonovan ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
and Trinity Mirror plc and a member of the Audit Committee In making recommendations to the Board of Non-Executive of Arm Holdings plc.
The Audit Committee provides a forum Directors, it specifically considers the expected time for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings commitment of the proposed Non-Executive and other are also attended by certain Senior Executives, by invitation.
Agreement of the Chairman During the year, the Committee was responsible for reviewing, of the Company is also required before a Non-Executive and reporting to the Board on, a range of matters including: Director may accept any additional commitments which could affect the time available to devote to the Company.
the interim and annual financial statements and significant reporting judgements therein: Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every the REIT circular to shareholders: three years.
Under the Articles of Association at least a third of meetings with the Company auditors and property valuers: the Board, not including directors appointed during the year, must retire by rotation from the Board each year and all developments in accounting and reporting requirements: proposed reappointments to the Board are formally considered the review of the Companys internal control and risk by the Nomination Committee in March.
management systems: In light of the scale of the development business being the scope, effectiveness independence and objectivity of the undertaken by the Group, in May 2006, the Nomination external audit: Committee recommended the appointment of Neil Thompson, previously Head of Development, to the Board in the new role the external auditors management letter: and of Development Director from 1 August 2006.
In December the need for an internal audit function.
2006, the Committee considered the skill set required for the Non-Executive Director intended to replace John Edgcumbe who, following almost eight years service will retire from the Board in 2007.
Following an interview and selection process which involved the review of an updated list of candidates 44 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results and the regulatory environment.
Key risks to the business and of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the review the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage of the effectiveness of the auditors, a formal evaluation process those risks are included on page 30. incorporating feedback from the Audit Committee and relevant Group strategy and progress on developments are updated and members of management is provided to the auditors.
reviewed at each Board meeting.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and other Relations with shareholders services which the Audit Committee believe they are best Communications with shareholders is given a high priority and placed to undertake due to their position as auditors.
During the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders the year these included compliance reporting for transactions, and fund managers.
The Executive Directors are the Companys debentures, bonus plans and the long-term incentive plans.
principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, Deloitte and Touche LLP have confirmed to the Audit press and other interested parties, and independent feedback Committee that they remain independent and have maintained on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Presentations to analysts and the accompanying Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website.
internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review As Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, by the Committee.
Richard Peskin and Kathleen ODonovan are each available, Internal controls as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, at least annually.
Such a system can only provide reasonable, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Group: these processes and procedures were in place 5 July 2007 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages throughout the year under review and up to the date of the 78 to 79.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull withheld for each resolution, will be disclosed at the meeting.
guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Going concern Combined Code.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Key features of the system of internal control include: adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the a comprehensive system of financial reporting and going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
business planning: By order of the Board a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board: an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: formal documentation procedures: and the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings Desna Martin with senior management to review all operational aspects of Company Secretary the business and risk management systems.
23 May 2007 The Audit Committee carries out a twice yearly review of significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reporting to the Board.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks,
