Corporate governanCe The Combined Code resourCes The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate All Directors have access to independent professional advice governance within the Company.
Throughout the year ended and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who 31 December 2007 the Company has complied with section 1 is responsible to the Board for advice on corporate governance of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company Secretary is also board of direCTors responsible for facilitating the programme of directors induction The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities, and professional development and Board performance evaluation.
which include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary of the Board.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, five is a matter requiring approval of the Board.
Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets not less than ten times during the year.
Non-Executive The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with Executive which is reviewed annually.
The Companys Directors and officers Directors between formal Board meetings and, in addition to these are adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the regular Board meetings, the Board holds an annual strategy Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In accordance meeting at which it considers the future direction of the Company.
with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are required All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity after and of those Committees on which they serve, and to devote their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to properly three years.
fulfil their duties as Directors.
All Directors were present at all meetings of the Board held during the year with the Training and developmenT exception of Jacques Espinasse, who was unable to attend All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant two meetings because of commitments entered into prior to legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance his appointment to the Board, and Tony Watson, who was unable of the Companys legal advisers and auditors where appropriate.
to attend one meeting because of illness.
When directors are The professional development requirements of Executive Directors unable to attend meetings, their comments on briefing papers are identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual to be considered at the meeting are provided in advance to appraisal.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend the Chairman.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, seminars and undertake external training at the Companys Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors expense in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own are clearly defined and documented.
professional development and a record of this is maintained.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Hammersons overall management and its business and financial strategy and there is board effeCTiveness a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the strategy: success of the Company and they therefore monitor and evaluate their own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
acquisition and divestment policy: In particular, the contribution of John Clare, who retires having approval of major capital expenditure projects: been a Director for more than nine years and who seeks re-election at the Annual General Meeting, has been fully considered by the risk management: Board.
The Board has concluded that he makes an effective internal control: contribution to the Board as Senior Independent Director and to the Committees on which he serves and that he continues treasury and the raising of finance: to demonstrate commitment to these roles.
His commercial human resources: and experience is particularly valued.
An external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness and procedures, Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and those of its Committees, was undertaken in 2006 by ICSA and Nomination Committees and documented in their terms of Corporate Services Limited.
The evaluation concluded that the reference.
The procedures and accountability for these matters Board and its Committees were operating effectively and it is are set out in the Companys operations and control manuals.
intended that a further review will be undertaken later in 2008.
A schedule of routine matters to be addressed by the Board The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, and its Committees is agreed on an annual basis and information with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors is supplied to them in a manner that enables them to fulfil their present.
The Senior Independent Director, having first sought responsibilities.
This includes the circulation of comprehensive the views of Executive Directors, chairs an annual meeting of briefing papers one week prior to Board and Committee meetings.
Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman in order to Presentations on business and operational issues are made appraise his performance and to provide an opportunity to regularly to the Board by senior management.
Each year, address any other matters which the Non-Executive Directors the programme of Board meetings is tailored to enable some might wish to raise.
meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During 2007, the Board made visits to Leicester and Peterborough and undertook a tour of the Companys London office portfolio.
052 Annual Report 2007 non-exeCuTive direCTors A formal review is undertaken annually.
Copies of these terms The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of reference are available on the Companys website.
Each of these of whom is independent from management and has no material Committees is comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Company commercial or other connection with the Company, are able who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the to exercise independent judgement.
Their experience, gained Nomination Committee.
from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to make a The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
valuable contribution to the Company.
The Chairman holds other The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of meetings positions which are set out on page 8.
The Board is satisfied to the Board.
that these appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
The audiT CommiTTee There is an induction programme in place which is based on The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that management the guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries has systems and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of and Administrators tailored to the specific requirements of financial information.
The Committee maintains an appropriate newly appointed Non-Executive Directors.
On their appointment, relationship with the Groups external auditors and reviews the Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman and the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditors Chief Executive and are provided with briefings on their and considers both the scope of their work and the fees paid to responsibilities as Directors and on the Companys business, them for audit and non-audit services.
The Committee reviews the finances, risks, strategy, procedures and the markets in which Companys internal audit arrangements, internal financial controls the Company operates.
Non-Executive Directors also meet with and the audit process.
representatives from the Companys auditors and advisers and with members of senior management who provide further The Committee has access to employees and all documentation information on the Companys operations including visits and information it may require.
Members of the Committee may, to the Companys properties.
in pursuit of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
relaTions wiTh shareholders The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through Committee Membership a programme of investor meetings including formal presentations The Committee comprises: of the full and half-year results.
Non-Executive Directors are Name Date of appointment available to attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders and may attend meetings between shareholders and management John Hirst Chairman 19 August 2004 if desired.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional John Clare 14 January 1999 shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers David Edmonds 8 May 2003 circulars.
This enables the Directors to obtain the required Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 understanding of the views of shareholders.
John Clare is the Senior Independent Director as defined in the Code and is available John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, is a Chartered to shareholders if the normal channels of contact are inappropriate Accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has the required for whatever reason.
In this role he would deputise for the recent and relevant experience.
All Audit Committee members Chairman in his absence and is available to advise and counsel are expected to be financially literate.
particularly Non-Executive, but also Executive, colleagues.
He is John Clare has been a Non-Executive Director and a member a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
of the Committee for over nine years.
As explained, his contribution Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Companys Annual to the Board and to the Committees on which he serves, continues General Meeting and meet the Directors informally after the meeting.
to be valued and it is intended that he should remain a member The number of proxy votes cast in resolutions is announced at the of the Committee until he retires as a Non-Executive Director.
Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website.
Meetings exTernal appoinTmenTs The Committee meets at least four times each year with agendas Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
During 2007 it in other companies, subject to the approval of the Board, to broaden met on four occasions and all members of the Committee attended their experience.
Simon Melliss is a member of the Committee of Management The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the Group of Hermes Property Unit Trust for which he received a fee Finance Director, and other senior finance management together of 20,000 in 2007.
He was appointed a non-executive director with senior representatives of the external auditors are invited of Whitbread PLC on 1 April 2007 and became chairman of its to attend all meetings.
In order to fulfil its duties as defined in audit committee on 1 May 2007, for which he receives a fee its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives presentations of 65,000 p. a..
The fees paid are retained in recognition of the and reviews reports from the groups senior management, personal commitment and expertise required for such positions.
consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
The Committee meets with the external auditors in the absence sTanding CommiTTees of The board of management at least once each year.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has written terms of reference set by the Board and modelled closely on those recommended by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
They are regularly reviewed and deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
Annual Report 2007 053 section Corporate governanCe continued Review of the Year The Committee met seven times during 2007 and all members During the year, the Committee reviewed the draft half-year of the Committee attended all meetings which they were eligible and annual reports and associated results announcements to attend.
Full details of the responsibilities of the Remuneration prior to their approval by the Board.
Committee and a review of its activities during the year are included in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages These reviews considered the application of the Companys 60 to 67.
The Chief Executive other than in respect of his own accounting policies and practices and any changes to them, remuneration is invited to attend the meetings.
major judgemental areas, adjustments resulting from the audit and going concern assumptions.
The reviews also included consideration of the groups compliance with nominaTion CommiTTee statutory tax obligations, compliance with accounting standards The Nomination Committee comprises: and with regulatory requirements, the statement on internal Name Date of appointment control, property valuations and clarity of disclosure.
John Nelson Chairman 7 April 2005 The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its John Clare 1 January 2006 responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of Tony Watson 3 May 2007 the control environment and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil these duties, the Committee reviewed: John Barton ceased to be a member of the Committee on his the external auditors management letters: retirement on 3 May 2007. internal audit reports, including recommendations arising All members of the Committee were present on each of the four from them and the review of progress in implementing previous occasions on which the Committee met in 2007.
The Committee recommendations: undertakes an annual review of succession planning and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including reports on the systems of internal controls and the risk the balance of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, management framework: and continues to be appropriate.
In addition to identifying potential the Companys approach to compliance with legislation successors for executive board level positions, the review and regulations and to the prevention of fraud including considers senior functional positions within the Company.
arrangements for staff to raise concerns in confidence.
The Committee considers the independence of Non-Executive The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Directors and of the balance of skills and knowledge required of implementation and monitoring of the groups policy on external both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
During the audit in which is set out the categories of non-audit services which year, on the recommendation of the Committee, the appointment the external auditors will, and will not, be allowed to provide to the of Christophe Clamageran as Development Director, France group.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external auditors, in March 2008 was approved by the Board.
This followed a the Committee reviewed: thorough review of candidates with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: oTher CommiTTees the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: In addition to the principal committees referred to above, the external auditors fee proposal: the Board has established committees to deal with share plan administration, compliance with the Companies Act and the a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and to ensure objectivity and to identify, report and manage any other relevant regulatory requirements and the administrative conflicts of interest: arrangements required for financing.
the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that they are not placed in a position to audit their exTernal audiTors own work.
The Companys external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the external The audit partner responsible for the Companys audit matters auditors should be reappointed.
is changed every five years in accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external remuneraTion CommiTTee auditors, the Audit Committee takes into account the safeguards The Remuneration Committee comprises: operating within Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Under the Companys Name Date of appointment policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, they may not provide a service which places them in John Clare Chairman 8 May 2003 a position where they may be required to audit their own work.
John Nelson 21 July 2006 Tony Watson 1 February 2006 John Clare was appointed Chairman of the Committee following John Bartons retirement on 3 May 2007.
054 Annual Report 2007 Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on The Company conducts internal audit activities through the work undertaken and are not success related.
Regard is had a programme of reviews principally undertaken by BDO Stoy to the nature of and remuneration received for other services Hayward, but also on occasion by Company employees.
provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to the Company and, inter The reviews are overseen and co-ordinated by an Internal Controls alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for and Risk Management Committee.
This Committee comprises the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their executives from the finance and operational parts of the business, obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In respect is chaired by the Group Finance Director, and is intended to ensure of the year ended 31 December 2007, the auditors remuneration that internal control is integrated into Hammersons daily operations.
comprised 532,000 for year end audit and half-year review work The Audit Committee has reviewed these arrangements and and 67,000 for other work.
is satisfied that they provide an appropriate overview of the Companys internal control procedures.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors The other key elements of the groups system of internal control issued by the Auditing Practices Board and, having considered the are as follows: recommendations of the briefing paper with the external auditors, regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee whose has concluded that the relationship between the Audit Committee overall responsibilities are set out above: and Deloitte & Touche LLP is in accordance with the objectives a management structure that is designed to enable effective contained therein.
decision making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
Monthly meetings of the Executive Directors TrusTees of The pension sCheme and of the management boards in the UK and France are The Companys pension scheme, The Hammerson Group an important part of this structure: Management Limited Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, the maintenance of operational control manuals setting is administered by two corporate trustees.
One is an independent out a control framework for management to operate within trustee.
The other is a subsidiary of the Company which has five and containing guidance and procedures for the groups directors.
The Chairman of this subsidiary is David Edmonds, operations: and one of the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
Graham Pimlott, a former Non-Executive Director, is also a director of this subsidiary the measurement of the groups financial performance on and the remaining directors are employees, but not directors, a regular basis against budgets and long-term financial plans.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed The Company has whistleblowing procedures under which independently of the Company.
staff may report any suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity This Scheme was closed to new entrants on 31 December 2002 or other malpractice.
The Company subscribes to the independent following which a Group Personal Pension Plan was established charity, Public Concern at Work, so that staff may have free access for new employees.
The system of internal control and the effectiveness thereof have inTernal ConTrol been reviewed by the Board for the year under review and during The Board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system the period up to the date of this report and the process accords of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system with the Turnbull guidance.
is designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or By Order of the Board disposition, ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, provide reliable financial information and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations.
There is a regular review process throughout the year of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including Stuart Haydon financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Secretary management, although any such system can only provide 5 March 2008 reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system is designed to manage the achievement of business objectives.
The group has established, and the Board regularly reviews, a risk management framework and procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on internal controls in compliance with the Code.
The risk management procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the group and include plans for the continuance of the Companys business in the event of unforeseen interruption.
The Board has allocated responsibility for the management of each key risk to Executive Directors and senior executives within the group who report on these risks to the Board.
