Corporate governance This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors held office for three years or more since their previous remuneration report set out on pages 35 to 41, describes appointment by shareholders: and, in the case of Nonhow the Company has both applied the principles contained executive Directors, if they have held office for nine years in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance or more since first being appointed by shareholders.
published in June 2006 the Code and complied with the provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executives Board composition responsibilities include operational performance, Corporate The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman Gordon Social Responsibility and the development and implementation Page, a Chief Executive Allan Cook, two other Executive of the Companys strategy.
He focuses also on long-term Directors and five other Non-executive Directors of whom growth development of the Group, its people and customer Marcus Beresford is the Senior Independent Director.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, are and Chief Executive should be performed by different people.
Subject to re-appointment The division of responsibilities between the Chairmans role as a Director by shareholders, David Turner, who is currently and that of the Chief Executive is documented and clearly Deputy Chairman, is expected to assume the chairmanship understood and no conflicts arise, in the Directors view, from of the Company at the close of the 2008 AGM.
the fact that the Chairman held, until 2001, the position of Chief Executive.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other significant commitments, are set out on page 27 With effect from 1 January 2008, Andy Stevens, the Chief and, in relation to those Directors offering themselves for reOperating Officer, assumed responsibility and accountability appointment at the AGM, in the accompanying shareholder for the operational management, performance and P&L of all circular.
The wide ranging experience and backgrounds Cobham divisions.
Previously, and since 1 March 2007, he of the Non-executive Directors enable them to debate and had been responsible and accountable for the operational constructively challenge management in relation to both the management and performance of the technology divisions.
development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Board committee The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
provision of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact for shareholders if they have Board Audit Remuneration Nomination concerns which communication through the normal channels Number held 11 3 5 6 of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
Number attended The Directors have the benefit of a Directors and officers G F Page 11 6 liability insurance policy and the Company has entered into A E Cook 11 6 qualifying third party indemnity arrangements with them, 3 as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
They can take A J Hannam 10 independent legal advice at the Companys expense within W G Tucker 11 set limits in furtherance of their duties.
A J Stevens 10 The Board and its proceedings 1 J W Edington 5 1 2 2 Board meetings scheduled in accordance with the annual P Hooley 10 3 5 6 timetable take place eight times a year and otherwise as required.
There is contact between meetings to progress the M Beresford 10 3 5 6 Groups business as required.
Meetings were held at the head J Patterson 10 2 5 5 office in Wimborne, at the Companys London office and at M H Ronald 10 4 6 operational locations in the UK and USA.
In addition, meetings 2 take place between the Non-executives in the absence of the D J Turner 1 1 1 1 Chairman and or the Executive Directors.
Jeff Edington retired in June.
David Turner joined the Board in December.
Alex Hannam retired in December.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of a strong, sustainable financial performance and Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of long-term shareholder value.
In doing so, it reviews and three years which can be extended by agreement provided agrees Group strategy, ensures that the necessary resources that the individuals performance continues to be effective.
are in place, monitors management performance, and All Non-executives have confirmed they will have sufficient supervises the conduct of the Groups activities within time to meet what is expected of them and copies of their a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
appointment letters are available on request to the Company During the year Board members participated in the now Secretary.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, customary meeting held over two days devoted to the Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the consideration and development of the Groups strategy.
first AGM after their appointment by the Board: if they have 31 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its Nomination committee report specific approval.
The schedule provides the framework for Gordon Page is the Chairman of this committee.
The other those decisions which can be made by the Board and those members are Allan Cook, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford, which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
John Patterson, Mark Ronald appointed 8 January 2007 and Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make David Turner appointed 4 December 2007.
Jeff Edington decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five-year plan, was a member of the committee until his retirement on 6 its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions June 2007.
The majority of the members of the committee and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from the are independent.
Details of their qualifications and experience Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured are set out on page 27.
During the year the committee met basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate formally on six occasions.
Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, The committees terms of reference, which have recently within defined parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, been reviewed, are available on the Companys website or on capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the structure, size and composition of the The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of Board and to consider succession planning for Directors and its business, including the timely provision of information, and other senior executives.
The committee dealt with these matters the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these during the year and, in addition, reviewed the Groups talent are observed and for advising the Board on corporate management processes, made recommendations regarding governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, the re-appointment of certain Directors at the 2007 AGM, and and can only be removed, by the Board.
was engaged in searching, with the assistance of external recruitment consultants, for new Non-executive Directors.
Board committees The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
Mark Ronald was appointed a Non-executive Director with Information relating to the nomination and audit committees effect from 8 January 2007.
Mark was initially identified as a appears below and the activities of the remuneration potential appointee to the Board by a committee member and committee are described in the Directors remuneration report was recommended for appointment following meetings with on pages 35 to 41.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to external recruitment consultants, who reported back to the all Board committees.
Committee chairmen provide oral reports committee on his suitability, members of the committee and, on the work undertaken by their committees at the following subsequently, other Board members.
Board meeting and minutes are made available to all Directors.
David Turner was appointed Deputy Chairman with effect Other Board committees include the executive committee, from 1 December 2007.
The selection process, which was the general purposes committee and the price sensitive led by Marcus Beresford, involved the development of a information PSI committee.
The Executive Directors are specification with the assistance of executive search members of these committees.
consultants, interviews and meetings with board members.
The terms of reference of the executive committee were The Group Director of Human Resources customarily attends reviewed during the year and its purpose is to assist the Chief committee meetings by invitation and provides advice and Executive in the performance of his duties.
These include support as required.
developing the Groups strategy for Board consideration and approval, making recommendations as to acquisitions and Directors professional development disposals, reviewing operational activities and managing the On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction significant risks faced by the Group.
This committee met on programme in the course of which they receive information ten occasions during the year and its membership comprises about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Executive Directors under the chairmanship of the Chief the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the Executive.
Alex Hannam was a member of the committee Companys corporate governance practices and procedures until his retirement on 31 December 2007. and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public limited company.
This is supplemented by The duties of the general purposes committee are varied visits to key locations and meetings with, and presentations and include the discharge of obligations arising under the by, senior executives.
Companys share plans, the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, and the Training for Directors is available as required and is provided approval of banking facilities.
mainly by means of external courses or in-house presentations.
During the year a presentation was given to the Board as a The PSI committees main function is to establish and whole on Directors duties and the Companies Act 2006 and implement internal policies, systems and controls to ensure individual Directors received training in a number of areas that potential inside information is communicated to it, including dealing with concerns raised under the Groups considered, verified and released to the market where whistleblowing policy.
In addition, Directors knowledge of required.
The general purposes and PSI committees meet the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the as and when required.
provision of information by the Groups advisers and by means of regular briefings from the Company Secretary.
32 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance evaluation the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its own is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure performance and that of individual Directors and of the audit, to achieve business objectives, and can only provide remuneration and nomination committees.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The evaluation process involved the dissemination to and completion by Board members of structured questionnaires The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for dealing with the performance of the Board as a whole, of the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks audit, nomination and remuneration committees and of their faced by the Group.
This process, which has been in place own performance as Directors.
All responses were considered for the year under review and up to the date of approval of by the Chairman and then discussed at a full meeting of the the Annual Report and financial statements, is reviewed in Board.
Generally, the Board was pleased with progress which accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal control had been made in relation to its performance and that of the issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The audit committee committees and with the contribution of individual Directors.
monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and However, as always, areas for improvement were identified compliance with Group standards through a self-assessment and any shortcomings will be addressed.
process involving all subsidiaries supplemented by regular financial assurance reviews and visits.
The principal Board committees have considered their own performance.
The performance of individual Directors was The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the and audit committees in relation to the effectiveness of the Senior Independent Director discussed the Chairmans own Groups system of internal control and has, accordingly, performance with him.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in respect of 2007.
Financial reporting In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for Audit committee report 2007, together with the Interim and other reports made during The Chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an the year, present a balanced and understandable assessment independent Director and the Board is satisfied, since he was of the Companys position and prospects.
a Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company until mid-2006 and is a chartered accountant, that he has relevant and recent The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in financial experience as required by the Code.
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on pages 18 to 22.
The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent Directors, are Marcus Beresford, John Internal control and risk management Patterson and David Turner appointed 4 December 2007.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which Jeff Edington was a member of the committee until his has been developed and refined over time to meet its needs retirement on 6 June 2007.
Details of their qualifications and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
They and experience are set out on page 27.
During the year include a strategic planning process involving the preparation the committee met on three occasions.
of a five-year plan, a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board, the regular The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed revision of forecasts for the year, the monitoring of financial during the year, are available on the Companys website or on performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main operational management.
Delegations and other operational duties are to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the statements and any formal announcements relating to its Group Finance Manual.
financial performance, to consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems, to monitor and Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit control.
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents are activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, required to ensure that appropriate processes, including remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors the maintenance of divisional risk registers, exist to identify and to monitor and review the external auditors independence and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The executive committee undertakes a top-level review of significant risks and reports regularly Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the to the Board on their mitigation.
Company Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, senior employees with responsibilities in relation to finance and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal internal control, and the external auditors.
In addition, the control, the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant committee holds sessions with the external auditors and to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives and to the Head of Financial Assurance in the absence of executive contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment management.
Attendance of non-members is at the and the Companys assets.
It is also responsible for reviewing discretion, and by invitation, of the committee.
33 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued At the majority of its meetings the committee considered The Board is kept informed of investors views through the reports from the external auditors, the financial assurance distribution of analysts circulars, the receipt of regular reports function and on risk management and controls.
Reports from the Companys brokers and updates from the Chief were also considered on a number of matters including the Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Correspondence with pension scheme deficit and funding plans, taxation, revenue shareholders is also made available.
recognition, provisions, disaster recovery planning and corporate governance issues.
The Group has formal anti-fraud Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS and whistleblowing policies and the committee regularly announcements, the Companys website, the annual and receives and considers reports on these matters.
interim reports and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear a The committee believes that the current arrangements statement as to progress made during the year, to question the comprising a rotational programme of internal financial Board on its stewardship of the Company and to meet Directors control review visits to subsidiaries by the financial assurance informally.
The results of the votes on the resolutions proposed function, business reviews carried out by the Chief Executive, at the AGM are published on the Companys website.
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer and a process of self-assessment of internal financial controls by Responsibility statements all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors of the Groups activities.
The financial assurance function are on page 42 and those relating to the auditors are on regularly reports to the audit committee.
Where weaknesses pages 43 and 91. have been identified, plans for remedying them are developed and progress monitored.
Compliance statement The committee and the external auditors have safeguards The Board confirms that it complied throughout 2007 with to avoid the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity all relevant provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding the supply of audit and nonaudit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services involving the review of interim financial information, tax services and accounting advice, and acquisition-related due diligence can be supplied subject to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The committee has also received reports from the external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2007 are set out in note 2 of the Notes to the Group financial statements.
Shareholder relations During the year the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer held regular meetings with fund managers and other investors to discuss information made public by the Group.
In March and October 2007 respectively a briefing and site visit tour also took place at Chelton Limited in Marlow, UK and at REMEC Defense & Space Inc. in San Diego, USA, two of the Groups businesses.
Presentations were given on the announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
Copies of the presentation materials can be accessed via the Companys website at www.
The Chairman also wrote to a number of major shareholders reminding them of his availability, and that of Marcus Beresford, the Senior Independent Director, should there be issues which they might wish to raise.
In the absence of any request from shareholders no meetings involving the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director have in fact taken place.
Shareholders have also been offered the opportunity to meet David Turner, the recently-appointed Deputy Chairman.
34 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
