Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited Substantial shareholdings financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
At 18 March 2008 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Results and dividends Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The consolidated income statement is set out on page 65 and shows a profit for the financial year of 94.4 million 2006: 80.1 million.
An interim Shareholder Number of Shares % dividend of 0.84p per ordinary share was paid on 29 September 2007 to Bollor Group 344,276,446 29.85 ordinary shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.46p per ordinary share which, if approved at the Annual General The Goldman Sachs Group 73,511,474 6.37 Meeting, will be payable on 29 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders Fidelity International 59,545,717 5.16 registered at 2 May 2008.
The total dividend for the year will then amount Legal & General Group 46,704,499 4.05 to 2.30p per ordinary share 2006: 1.90p.
Barclays 35,213,235 3.05 Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range Share capital of services in the areas of media communications and market research.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 16 to the parent in note 23 to the financial statements on page 101. company financial statements.
The Company has one class of share capital which is divided into ordinary Review of business and future developments shares of 5p each and which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share A review of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
in the Letter to Shareholders on pages 16 and 17 and in the Business and There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding nor on the Financial Reviews on pages 26 to 37.
These sections form part of, and are transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the incorporated by reference within, this Directors Report.
Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result Financial instruments in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 20 to the financial statements.
The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust AEST have agreed to waive any right to all or any future dividend payments on shares held within Post-balance sheet events the AEST except in certain limited circumstances, none of which are currently Details of significant post-balance sheet events are contained in note 34 applicable.
Details of the shares held are set out in note 24 on page 101. to the financial statements.
The trustees of the AEST may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the Donations AEST in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into account both The Groups policy with respect to charitable donations and the amounts financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the AEST.
donated are detailed on page 41.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital Supplier payment policy and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a subsidiaries.
However, the Groups policy is to try to create relationships with maximum nominal amount of 17,778,495.
No such shares have been its suppliers such that they trust us and want to do business with us.
In selecting issued or allotted under this authority, nor is there any current intention to do so, external suppliers we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, save for shares to be issued to satisfy existing obligations.
This authority is valid and designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients and until the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which time ourselves.
a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority as detailed in the At 31 December 2007, the Group had 74 days purchases outstanding enclosed circular.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding The Company has no current authority to allot shares without regard to the company.
pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts or to purchase its own shares.
Directors However, special resolutions will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming The names of the directors at the date of this report and biographical details Annual General Meeting seeking such authorities details of which are set out are given on page 45. in the enclosed circular.
On 31 March 2007 Jeremy Hicks retired as chief financial officer and Alicja Amendments to Articles of Association Lesniak was appointed as his successor.
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 62.
A resolution to amend the Articles will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 May 2008.
The proposed changes to the Articles derive Re-election of directors from the Companies Act 2006.
The Companies Act 2006 was enacted on Details of the directors who will be retiring by rotation at the forthcoming 8 November 2006 and is being implemented in stages.
Details of the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of Association, specific changes being proposed are set out in full in the explanatory notes are set out in the separate circular containing the Notice of AGM that to the separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
That section of the circular forms part of, and is incorporated by reference within, this Directors Report.
Appointment and replacement of directors With regard to the appointment of directors, the Company is governed by its Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice periods, Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related are given in the Remuneration Report on page 58. legislation.
Directors indemnities The Company shall have no fewer than two and no more than 16 directors.
A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by a resolution of the Board.
A director appointed by the Board may only hold 2006, has been granted by the Company to each of the directors of the office until the following Annual General Meeting but is then eligible for Company.
Under the provisions of the QTPIs the Company undertakes to election.
He she is not taken into account in determining the directors or the indemnify each director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and number of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that At every Annual General Meeting at least one third of the directors must retire is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
Where the number of directors is not divisible by three, the Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 Report of the directors continued minimum number of directors to retire will be the number which is nearest to Auditors and less than one third.
If there are fewer than three directors, they will all Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office retire.
The directors who will retire by rotation will be those who were in office as auditors and resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to at the time of the two previous Annual General Meetings and did not retire at the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be either of them.
If the number so retiring is less than the number required to proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
retire, additional directors must retire.
The further directors to retire will be those Directors confirmation who have been directors the longest since they were last elected to the Board.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: If there are directors who were last elected on the same date, they can agree so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of on who is to retire.
If they cannot agree, they must draw lots to decide.
At the which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Annual General Meeting at which a director retires, shareholders can pass an the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as ordinary resolution to re-elect the director or to elect some other suitable person a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit in his place.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware The only people who can be elected as directors at an Annual General of that information.
Meeting are: i directors retiring at the meeting: ii anyone recommended by This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the the directors: and iii anyone nominated by a shareholder.
The nominating provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. shareholder must be entitled to vote at the meeting.
He must deliver to the Directors responsibilities Company a letter stating that he intends to nominate another person for The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial election and the written consent of that person to be elected.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the must be delivered to the Company not less than seven and not more than 42 Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as days before the day of the meeting.
adopted by the EU IFRSs and have elected to prepare financial statements The Company may by special resolution remove any director before the for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted expiration of his term of office.
A director automatically stops being a director Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
if: i he resigns: ii he offers to resign and the Company accept his offer: iii In the case of the Groups financial statements, company law requires the all of the other directors at least three of them resolve to or a sign a written directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the notice requiring his resignation: iv he is or has been suffering from mental ill Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International health: v he is absent without permission of the Board for a continuous period Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each of six months and the directors pass a resolution removing him from office: vi financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vii he is flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other prohibited by law from being a director: or viii he ceases to be a director events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition under legislation or is removed pursuant to the Articles.
criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Significant agreements Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will counterparties to those agreements to exercise termination or other rights be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
in the event of a change of control of the Company: Directors are also required to: 450,000,000 multicurrency credit facility agreement dated 9 June 2006 properly select and apply accounting policies: as amended between, amongst others, the Company, The Royal Bank of present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides Scotland plc as agent and the financial institutions named therein as banks relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and the Facility.
On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Banks as defined therein otherwise agree, all loans, letters of credit and requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact guarantees, together with all accrued interest and other sums payable under of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial the agreement, shall be prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, position and financial performance.
the total commitments of the banks under the Facility shall be cancelled and In the case of the Companys UK GAAP accounts, company law requires the reduced to zero.
directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a Note purchase agreements dated 20 November 2000, 28 July 2005 true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and and 17 September 2007 as amended, the Note Purchase Agreements loss of the Company for that period.
pursuant to which notes amounting in aggregate to US$160,000,000 In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the 2000 Notes, US$342,000,000 the 2005 Notes and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: US$125,000,000 the 2007 Notes, together with the 2000 Notes and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the 2005 Notes, the Notes respectively were issued by the Company.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed.
Each holder of Notes has an option on a change of control of the Company to require the Company to prepay the entire principal amount of the Notes The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which held by that holder together with interest accrued thereon and the Makedisclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Whole Amount as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements.
Group and of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable At the date of this Directors Report, an aggregate principal amount of steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for US$147,000,000 of the 2000 Notes have matured.
the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Employment policies The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has developed The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company employment policies that meet local conditions and requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and policies are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other in which it operates and are discussed on pages 39 and 40. jurisdictions.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting Details of the special business and the resolutions to be proposed at the By order of the Board forthcoming AGM are given in the enclosed circular, along with the Notice of Meeting.
John Ross Company secretary 18 March 2008 48 Aegis Group plc Corporate governance The roles of chairman and chief executive officer are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch, chairman The chairman is responsible for: I firmly believe in effective corporate the composition and leadership of the Board: governance as a support to good monitoring corporate governance processes: maintaining contact with shareholders and other stakeholders: and business performance and fiduciary acting as sounding board for the chief executive officer.
As chairman of Aegis, it is top The chief executive officer is responsible for: of my agenda.
the development and execution of the Groups strategy and its operational performance: leading the executive team: and The Board of Aegis considers that its principal governance priorities include leading the management of relationships with external stakeholders.
ensuring a business environment that lends itself to responsible professional behaviour and value creation, as well as the core areas of Board composition, Board meetings disclosure standards and oversight of the executive management team.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business needs require.
One Board meeting is usually held at the offices of one The Board confirms that throughout 2007 we have complied with the of the main business units and is typically followed by a second day devoted applicable principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined entirely to the ongoing development of the Companys strategic plans.
Board Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2006 the Code as meetings are structured to allow open discussion and all directors participate incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Rules, with one exception: in discussing the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk Our US-based executive director, David Verklin, has a rolling service contract management of the Company.
with a contractual termination payment provision which is in excess of one There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board for decision.
Details of his contractual entitlement on termination These include approval of: are set out on page 58.
David was recruited in 1998 to set up and grow the Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans: media business in the USA.
When he was recruited it was accepted market formal results announcements: practice for contractual termination payment provisions to be in excess of one dividend policy: year.
The Remuneration Committee reviews this position annually and continues all circulars and listing particulars: to believe that Davids contractual entitlement remains in line with market matters relating to share capital: and practice in the USA.
major capital projects, investments and commitments.
As noted on page 58, Mainardo fide Nardiss service contract had contained All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the various business a liquidated damages clause.
This expired on 18 August 2007. activities which the Group undertakes and regularly receive information Board composition concerning the Groups operations, finances, key risks and its employees, The Board comprises 12 directors a non-executive chairman, five executive enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations as directors.
directors and six independent non-executive directors.
Details of the directors The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an agenda and and their biographies are set out on page 45.
Our directors have a broad supporting documentation.
At each Board meeting there are a number of range of experience, which we believe contributes significantly to the standard agenda items, including: effectiveness of the Board.
market and sector analysis reports together with valuation updates from All directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
investor relations advisors and brokers: Executive directors have direct responsibility for business operations, whereas reports from the Group chief executive officer, chief executive officers of the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring independent, Aegis Media and Synovate, Group general counsel and Group human objective judgement to bear on Board decisions.
This includes constructively resources director: and challenging management and helping to develop the Companys strategy.
a presentation from the chief financial officer.
Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have been In addition, one or two other presentations are usually given at each meeting throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of by representatives of different business units or head office functions, on the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially subjects relevant to strategy or a particular matter under consideration.
These affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The chairman was presentations also assist the non-executive directors in gaining an ever deeper independent at the time of his appointment and in the opinion of the Board understanding of the businesses and provide an opportunity to meet other has remained so since.
In 2007 for example, there were presentations from one of the Synovate regional businesses and from Group tax and Group The other commitments of the non-executive directors are set out in their human resources.
Also at the strategy away day detailed business biographies.
presentations are given to the Board by the heads of Aegis Media and The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors and other Synovate, assisted by the Group head of strategy and corporate development.
senior employees accepting external non-executive directorships in order to External advisors are also invited to attend that part of the meeting which broaden their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
In 2007 a senior representative from our investor relations has adopted a policy on external appointments which is designed to ensure advisors attended to discuss the results of an independently conducted that employees remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Directors and employees are usually permitted to retain any fees in respect of such appointments.
The Board also receives briefings from the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees following meetings of those Committees.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors are expected to inform the chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
Bernard Fournier is the senior independent director and he is responsible for undertaking the annual review of the chairmans performance and chairing the Nominations Committee when considering the role of chairman.
He is available to shareholders if they need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the chairman or chief executive officer.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 Corporate governance continued The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record, in person or by telephone, of individual directors.
Board  Number of meetings in year 7443 Lord Sharman 7 1 3 Adrian Chedore 7 Daniel Farrar 7 4 2 Bernard Fournier 7 4 2 Jeremy Hicks resigned 31.03.07 1 1 Robert Lerwill 7 4 3 1 Alicja Lesniak appointed 31.03.07 6 3 Mainardo fide Nardis 7 Brendan ONeill 7 4 2 Charles Strauss 6 4 1 Lorraine Trainer 7 3 2 David Verklin 6 Leslie Van fide Walle 7 4 1 2 by invitation Mr Strauss was unable to attend one of the Board meetings due to a long planned prior commitment and Mr Verklin was unable to attend one meeting due to a final stage pitch meeting with a major client.
From time to time the non-executive directors, including the chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and the operation of the Company.
Performance appraisal process The non-executives, led by the senior independent director, continued the process of meeting annually without the chairman being present to appraise the chairmans performance.
As a result of this the senior independent director meets with the chairman to discuss any particular issues where it is felt that improvements could be made.
During 2007 the Board continued the process of performance appraisal using Synovates specialist business unit to carry out a formal independent appraisal of individual directors as well as of the Board and its committees.
Each director completed a detailed questionnaire which sought an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the contribution of individual directors.
The responses were aggregated and a senior executive of Synovate fed back the overall results for discussion at the July Board meeting.
The chairman, as in previous years, then undertook detailed one-to-one discussions with each director to review the results of his or her assessment.
Induction and training The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
This includes visits to business operations worldwide.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required, for example, during the year directors received briefings on the introduction of the Companies Act 2006 including the new directors duties provisions.
Director liability The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to its directors in respect of third party claims see the Directors Report on page 47 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary, Group general counsel and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
If a director has particular concerns, he or she can have these recorded in the Board minutes.
Board Committees Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly reviewed and are available on the Companys website at www.
com and from the Company secretary on request.
Audit Committee Brendan ONeill is chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a chartered management accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to lead the Committee in its duties and deliberations.
His colleagues on the Committee during 2007 were Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
Details of the members of the Audit Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are set out on page 45.
At the invitation of the chairman, meetings of the Committee were also attended, in whole or in part, by the chief financial officer, the external auditors, the chief executive officer as well as the Group general counsel, Company secretary and Group risk manager.
In addition, other members of senior management were invited to attend as necessary to provide updates and background information on matters considered by the Committee.
50 Aegis Group plc The chairman of the Committee regularly meets with the auditors without secretary and a senior representative from Kepler Associates, advisors to the executive directors or management present.
The CEO does not attend meetings when the Committee discusses matters relating to his remuneration.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the Companys external auditors.
Although not a member of the Committee, the chairman of the Board may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the A priority for the Committee during the year was in connection with the issues remuneration of the chief executive officer.
arising from the fraud in Aegis Media Germany as reported in last years accounts.
A special meeting of the Committee was held in July attended by the The Committee meets three times a year and other times as required.
It is CEO of Aegis Media Germany, and the CFOs of Aegis Media Europe and responsible for: Aegis Media Global.
The meeting discussed the lessons that had been learned overseeing policy regarding executive remuneration: and the changes that had been instigated in control processes and approving the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors: procedures.
These lessons and changes were also discussed with all of the reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole: and Groups operational finance functions at the Groups annual Finance approving awards to be made under the 2003 Executive Share Option conference.
An assessment of these controls has been integrated into the Scheme and the 2003 Performance Share Plan.
Groups annual compliance certification process and will continue to be During the year the most significant issues addressed by the Committee were: reviewed as part of the Groups risk management and internal audit reviews a review of the total compensation packages of the Groups most senior going forward.
executives relative to marketplace benchmarks: Other work carried out by the Committee during 2007, in accordance with its the approval of annual bonuses for the executive directors and a small responsibilities, included: number of other senior executives from around the Group: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviewing the continuing review and assessment of a broader range of external significant reporting judgements: reward benchmarking data for an increased set of senior managers around reviewing internal audit and risk management and controls, and considering the Group: progress reports from the Group Risk Committee and Group risk manager: a review of the Groups main annual bonus schemes to reflect revised reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and procedures: financial targets: and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectiveness and a self assessment review of how the Committee functioned and had effectiveness: performed during the year.
approving the external auditors terms of engagement, the scope of the audit Nomination Committee and the applicable levels of materiality: and The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, together with the chief executive officer and is chaired by the chairman reviewing the years results and audit findings.
of the Board, Lord Sharman.
The Committee meets as and when required In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the Committee but at least once a year.
focused in particular on: any changes in accounting policies and practices: The Committee is responsible for: major judgemental areas: reviewing the Board structure, size and composition: issues resulting from the external audit: identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment or the going concern assumption: reappointment as directors: and compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code: and reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment for noncompliance with stock exchange and legal requirements.
executive directors, with any individual in question not taking part in the discussion.
Based on written reports submitted to it, the Committee reviewed, with the external auditors, the findings of their audit work and confirmed that all The Committee meets once a year, together with the Group human resources significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved.
director, specifically to review the Groups ongoing succession planning.
This is key to ensuring that the Group maintains an appropriate balance of The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in skills and experience across the Group and on the Board.
relation to the external auditors independence and implements policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the Internal control and risk management external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in note 6 The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code 2006 and the guidance concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by contained in the Turnbull Report revised.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the The Committee has considered the balance between fees for audit and nonGroups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness, including audit work for the Group in the year and concluded that the nature and extent financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
of the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors The system of internal controls is intended to manage rather than eliminate the independence.
risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these Remuneration Committee objectives, internal controls can only give reasonable, and not absolute, During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Strauss assurance against material misstatement or loss.
chairman, Daniel Farrar and Lorraine Trainer.
All three are independent nonThe Board confirms that in 2007 it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system executive directors.
of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, Meetings of the Committee were also attended, in whole or in part, by the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
chief executive officer, the Group human resources director, the Company Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51 Corporate governance continued Board Overall responsibility.
Audit Committee Responsible for review of internal financial control systems and procedures.
Considers need for Internal Audit function.
Group Executive Management Members of Group executive management invited to attend Risk Committee meetings to help direct the risk management strategy.
Risk Committee Sets Group risk management strategy and considers the Groups major risks and the associated internal controls.
Responsible for overseeing and supporting the Internal Audit function.
Group Risk Manager Management Monitor and review of Groups risks Day-to-day management of risks and risk management.
Internal Audit Monitor and review of internal controls.
Assigning the roles and responsibilities outlined above has assisted the Group Other important elements of our internal control processes are described.
in establishing a sound governance structure and enabled the Board to set the below: tone of the Groups outlook on risk and internal controls.
Risk Committee The Committee manages and monitors the Groups risk and control processes The internal risk control processes and procedures which have been in place and procedures.
It was chaired during 2007 by the Company secretary and throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and its members during the year were drawn from relevant functions and from Accounts are highlighted below: Group businesses worldwide, as follows: The Board: regularly reviews and updates the Groups strategy: Company secretary Group HR director has delegated to the chief executive officer and the executive directors Chief financial officer Group risk manager the implementation of strategy and management of the Groups day-to-day activities, and management of operational risks: Group general counsel Group chief information officer has implemented an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of Six senior representatives from across Aegis Media and Synovate responsibility and delegation of authority: has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for The Committee meets four times a year, usually three weeks before an Audit decision and consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective Committee meeting.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee work very supervision over significant matters: closely together and ensure that there are good communication channels in has ensured the implementation of the Group Policies and Procedures place to enhance the flow of information.
The minutes of each Risk Committee Manual, which sets Group policy in relation to legal, financial, IT, human meeting and the internal audit supporting papers are sent to the Audit resources and other areas of risk.
The policies are updated from time to time Committee for information and comment.
as necessary: reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, A review of the Committees terms of reference was undertaken in 2007 with based on annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual the input of KPMG.
The revised terms of reference were subsequently endorsed results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular by the Audit Committee.
forecasting: and The Committee is responsible for: through the services of the Audit Committee, reviews the key risks facing the setting the Group risk management strategy: Group and the procedures in place to manage them.
communicating and embedding risk and internal control policy and Each separate business operations chief executive officer is responsible for: guidelines: the conduct and performance of their business against agreed targets and reviewing the major risks facing the Group and providing guidance and performance plans: direction on the internal controls required to manage them: identifying and evaluating significant risks within their areas of responsibility monitoring risk management performance: and and ensuring that an effective system of internal controls is in place: overseeing and supporting the internal audit function.
meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Significant matters dealt with by the Committee during 2007 included: Groups delegated authorities, policies and controls: and accurate submissions of accounts on a monthly basis subject to the Germany fraud limitations set by the annual business strategy and the delegated authorities.
The previously reported fraud in Aegis Media Germany was reviewed in detail to see what lessons had been learned and what consequent changes had 52 Aegis Group plc been introduced in control processes and procedures.
As a result, the Group Where a unit or entity states that they are non-compliant with any of the areas Risk Manager undertook a revision of the internal audit work programme.
listed above, full explanations are required for further understanding and follow-up.
The results from this process are reported to the Audit Committee In relation to the fraud, three individuals including the former chief executive prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
of Aegis Media Central and Eastern Europe and one other former employee of Aegis Media Germany have been formally charged with embezzlement.
Internal audit Court proceedings were commenced in January 2008 against the two former Our internal audit function has been in place since 2005 and helps provide employees and these proceedings are ongoing.
assurance to the Board, via the Risk and Audit Committees, on internal controls implemented to help mitigate some of the Groups key risks.
Internal audit The Group continues to take steps to maximise recovery for the losses suffered reviews are undertaken with the support of an international firm of accountants.
including making a claim under the Groups crime insurance policy.
Although some recovery of funds is expected, the amount and timing of the recovery is The annual internal audit programme incorporates all areas of our business not certain and the recoveries are disclosed as a contingent asset in the and is agreed by the Risk Committee and approved by the Audit Committee.
In 2007, the following types of activities were included within the plan: IT penetration testing reviews of recently acquired companies: Recognising its importance, IT penetration testing was rolled out with the peer reviews: assistance of external IT specialists.
The scope of the testing was to identify internal audits concentrating on financial controls at the operations any system, network or application vulnerabilities to unauthorised access that deemed to be higher risk: and could lead to a loss of data integrity.
An implementation programme for IT security reviews.
improvements has been put in place.
This is seen as an important exercise In addition to the agreed plan, ad hoc audits may be carried out.
These may and will be continued on an annual basis.
be at the request of senior management, the Risk Committee or the Audit Review of key risks Committee.
All amendments to the original plan require approval from the Discussions took place between the Group risk manager and senior Audit Committee.
In 2007, this included the IT penetration testing as referred management from Synovate and Aegis Media to review and update, where to earlier.
appropriate, the key risks for each business.
These were agreed along with One of our key risks is the integration of companies that we acquire.
Alongside this review of the key business risks an therefore bring them into our internal audit programme as early as possible, assessment was also undertaken of potential low probability but high impact recognising that full integration may take time.
Within 12 months of acquisition risks.
Any consequential actions agreed by the Committee have been or are we visit the more significant businesses to perform an acquisition review.
The planned to be communicated to the businesses and internal processes next step may be a peer review or an internal audit review, depending on the amended accordingly.
Our audit programme is based on a five year rolling Review of Group Principles and Policies Manual cycle, with the more significant operations visited by internal audit every two to The Committee was tasked with overseeing a review and update of the three years.
Peer reviews are used to supplement the internal audit reviews to manual.
This will be completed in early 2008 and distributed to all employees ensure good coverage of our operations and are conducted by experienced via the Groups intranet site.
CFOs from within our operating units.
Support is provided from an international firm of accountants to carry out specified detailed tests to confirm that key Risk monitoring and assurance financial operations are working satisfactorily.
Risk self-assessment surveys All reviews are performed using pre-defined audit programs that are updated The risk self-assessment surveys provide senior management with an insight from the businesses about the management of their key risks and changes in on a rolling basis to incorporate the risks and results from the risk selfassessment surveys and issues arising from the internal audit reviews.
As Synovate and Aegis Media face a number of different risks, two acquisition reviews also focus on the issues highlighted within the due separate online surveys were developed with input from Synovates COO and diligence report.
The CEOs of each local business unit must report, for each of the risks identified in their survey, the status of internal control and management of the risk within their operation, providing action plans where Due Diligence Report Acquisition reviews required.
The last survey was performed in December 2006.
In 2007 the results were Audit analysed by the Risk Committee and provided online to regional, global and programme group management as well as to the Risk and Audit Committees.
Based on the Results from risk Peer reviews updated responses and a review of the operations key risks, the surveys have been assessment survey according updated.
The revised surveys will be distributed for completion in the first Issues arising from quarter of 2008, with responses taking into account the period since Internal Audit action completion of the previous survey.
Internal Audit reviews Annual compliance certificates The chief executive officer and chief financial officer of each reporting unit or Action plans to address any areas of concern are agreed with senior entity is required to complete an annual certificate to confirm in relation to the management, with responsibilities assigned and timeframes established.
relevant unit or entity that: The results are reported to country, regional, global and Group management as appropriate and also to the Risk and Audit Committees.
the accounts as submitted were accurate and complete: there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or regulations: Although management has ultimate responsibility for implementing any agreed there were no frauds: recommendations, Internal Audit monitors their progress.
Where common there were no related party transactions other than those properly disclosed: issues are noted across several business units, these are reviewed and there were no conflicted directorships: and discussed in more detail at the Risk Committee to assess whether updates to all relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
existing Group policies are required.
Regional and global management are also reminded to take corrective action.
In addition, common issues were Similar certifications have been required of regional, global and Group shared and discussed at the Groups Finance annual conference.
