27 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Corporate governance including the report of the Audit Committee Compliance with the Combined Code to the General Counsel and Company As part of their ongoing development, the The Board is committed to the highest Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that executive directors are encouraged to seek standards of corporate governance set out in Board procedures are followed and that good an external non-executive role on a nonthe Combined Code on corporate governance corporate governance and compliance is competitor board, for which they may retain published by the Financial Reporting Council implemented within the Group.
Together the remuneration in respect of the in June 2006 the Code.
The Board is with the Group Chief Executive and the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict accountable to the Companys shareholders General Counsel and Company Secretary, of interest, all appointments are subject to the for good governance and this report describes the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Boards approval and the Board monitors the how the Board applied the principles of good properly informed and is consulted on all extent of directors other interests to ensure governance set out in the Code during the issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other that the effectiveness of the Board is not year under review.
information are distributed at times to allow compromised.
Succession planning is a matter directors to be properly briefed in advance of for the whole Board rather than for a The Board meetings.
In accordance with the Companys committee.
The Companys Articles of As at 30 September 2007 and at the date of Articles of Association, directors have been Association provide that one-third of the this report, the Board of directors was made granted an indemnity issued by the Company directors retire by rotation each year and up of 10 members comprising the Chairman, to the extent permitted by law in respect of that each director will seek re-election at the three executive directors and six non-executive liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Annual General Meeting every three years.
On 11 October 2007 Susan Murray The indemnity would not provide any Additionally, new directors may be appointed was appointed as a non-executive director coverage to the extent that a director is proved by the Board but are subject to election by and Peter Blackburn retired from the Board to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
shareholders at the first opportunity after on 31 October 2007.
The non-executive The Company has also arranged appropriate their appointment.
The Articles of directors are considered by the Board to be insurance cover in respect of legal action Association limit the number of directors to independent of management and free of any against its directors and officers.
The roles not less than two and not more than 20 save relationship which could materially interfere of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are where shareholders decide otherwise.
It is with the exercise of their independent separate and clearly defined with the division Board policy that non-executive directors judgement.
The Board considers that each of responsibilities set out in writing and are appointed normally for an initial term of the non-executive directors brings his own agreed by the Board.
of three years which is then reviewed and senior level of experience, gained in his own extended for a further three-year period.
It is field mainly in international operations.
The Chairman has addressed the also Board policy that non-executive directors developmental needs of the Board as a whole, should not generally serve on the Board for Biographical details of the directors currently with a view to developing its effectiveness more than nine years.
Following their in office are shown on page 17.
The as a team and assists in the development of appointment, formal comprehensive and Companys policy relating to the terms of individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
tailored induction is offered to all nonappointment and the remuneration of both During the year, the Board took forward executive directors, supplemented by visits to executive and non-executive directors is the results of previous evaluation processes key locations within the Group and meetings detailed in the directors remuneration report to assess its performance and that of its with members of the Executive Committee on pages 33 to 39. committees and to identify areas in which its and other key senior executives.
With the effectiveness, policies and processes might be exception of Susan Murray, all of the directors The Board meets regularly during the year enhanced, which utilised both a questionnaire being proposed for election or re-election at as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by and discussions with all Board members.
the Annual General Meeting have been business need.
The Board manages the subject to a performance evaluation during business of the Company and may, subject Performance evaluations, including the skills the year ended 30 September 2007 and the to the Articles of Association and applicable brought to the Board and the contributions Board is content that each has continued to legislation, borrow money, guarantee, each director made to it, were carried out be effective and has demonstrated his indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, for each director.
Executive directors commitment to his respective role.
property, assets present and future and issue performance has been assessed by the debentures and other securities and give Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Although the non-executive directors are not security, whether outright or as a collateral The Group Chief Executives performance asked to meet the shareholders of the Company, security, for any debt, liability or obligation was evaluated by the Chairman and the nontheir attendance at presentations of the of the Company or of any third party.
The senior independent annual and interim results is encouraged.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters non-executive director led the review of the Chairman ensures that the Board maintains reserved for its decision, although its Chairmans performance in consultation with an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
primary role is to provide entrepreneurial the executive and non-executive directors.
Sir James Crosby is the Companys senior leadership and to review the overall strategic The non-executive directors performance independent non-executive director.
development of the Group as a whole.
In was considered by the Chairman and by the addition the Board sets the Groups values Group Chief Executive, as well as by the The formal terms of reference for the main and standards and ensures that it acts ethically Board as a whole, which reviewed the results Board committees, approved by the Board and that its obligations to its shareholders are of the questionnaires referred to above.
and complying with the Code to assist in the understood and met.
The Board may delegate discharge of its duties, are available from the any of its powers to any committee consisting Meetings between the non-executive General Counsel and Company Secretary of one or more directors.
The Company has directors, both with and without the presence and can also be found on the Companys delegated day-to-day operational decisions to of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled website at www.
the Executive Committee referred to on page in the Boards annual programme.
The Membership of the various committees is 29.
The Board met nine times during the year Board has also arranged to hold at least two shown on page 29.
The General Counsel and director attendance for each meeting is Board meetings each year at Group business and Company Secretary acts as secretary shown in the table on page 29.
The Board locations to help all Board members gain to all Board committees.
has established a procedure for directors, a deeper understanding of the business.
if deemed necessary, to take independent This also provides senior managers from professional advice at the Companys expense across the Group the opportunity to present in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in to the Board as well as to meet the directors addition to the access that every director has on more informal occasions.
28 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Chairman of the Audit Committee tax matters is also obtained from other firms.
The Audit Committee comprises Steve Lucas attends the Annual General Meeting to The provision of non-audit services within Chairman, Sven Kado, Sir Ian Robinson respond to any shareholder questions that such constraints and the agreed policy is and Tim Parker.
Val Gooding and Peter might be raised on the committees activities.
assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the Cawdron stepped down as members of this The remuneration of the members of the best-placed advisor is retained.
During the committee upon their retirement as directors committee is set out on page 35 and the policy year, the committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Company on 31 December 2006 and with regard to the remuneration of the nonof the external auditors and considered 16 February 2007 respectively as did Peter executive directors is set out on page 38. whether the agreed plan had been fulfilled Blackburn upon his retirement from the and the reasons for any variation from the Board on 31 October 2007.
The committees The committee assists the Board to fulfil its plan.
The committee also considered the membership is reviewed by the Nomination responsibilities related to external financial external auditors robustness and the degree Committee and as part of the annual Board reporting and associated announcements.
to which the external auditors were able to performance evaluation.
Members of the During the year, the committee reviewed: assess key accounting and audit judgements committee are appointed by the Board the interim and annual financial statements: and the content of the management letter.
following recommendations by the the interim and preliminary announcements Nomination Committee.
made to the London Stock Exchange: The total fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP significant accounting issues including the in the year ended 30 September 2007 were 1 Each member of the committee brings consideration of any goodwill impairment 5.1 million 2006: 7.6 million of which relevant financial experience from senior assessments: operation of the whistle-blowing 2.1 million 2006: 4.0 million related to executive levels.
The expertise and experience policy: litigation and contingent liabilities and non-audit work.
Further disclosure of the of the members of the committee are tax matters, including compliance with non-audit fees paid during the year ended summarised on page 17.
The Board considers statutory tax reporting obligations.
30 September 2007 can be found in note 2 that each member of the committee is to the consolidated financial statements on independent within the definition set out in The committee is also responsible for the pages 52 and 53. the Code.
Steve Lucas is considered by the development, implementation and monitoring Board to have significant, recent and relevant of the Companys policy on external audit.
The committee also reviews the effectiveness financial experience, as he is currently The committee reserves oversight of the Groups internal audit function and its Finance Director of National Grid plc.
responsibility for monitoring the auditors relationship with the external auditors, independence, objectivity and compliance including internal audit resources, plans and All members of the committee receive with ethical, professional and regulatory performance as well as the degree to which the appropriate induction, which is in addition to requirements.
The committee recommends function is free of management restrictions.
the induction which all new directors receive the appointment, reappointment and removal Throughout the year, the committee reviewed and includes an overview of the business, its of the Companys external auditors.
The the internal audit functions plans and its financial dynamics and risks.
Audit Committee committee also reviews the terms, areas of achievements against plans.
The committee members are expected to have an responsibility and scope of the audit as set out considered the results of the audits undertaken understanding of the principles of, and in the external auditors engagement letter: by the internal audit function and considered developments in, financial reporting, the overall work plan for the forthcoming the adequacy of managements response to including the applicable accounting standards year, together with the associated fee proposal matters raised, including the time taken to and statements of recommended practice, key and cost-effectiveness of the audit: any major resolve any such matters.
aspects of the Companys policies, financing, issues which arise during the course of the internal control mechanisms, and matters that audit and their resolution: key accounting and The committee also reviews, where require the use of judgement in the audit judgements: the level of errors identified practicable, all proposed announcements to presentation of accounts and key figures as during the audit: the recommendations made be made by the Company to the extent that well as the role of internal and external to management by the auditors and they contain material financial information.
Members of the committee managements response: and the auditors The committee monitors and reviews the undertake ongoing training as required.
The committee also effectiveness of the Groups internal control ensures that key partners within the external systems, accounting policies and practices and The committee meets regularly throughout auditors are rotated from time to time in compliance controls as well as the Companys the year and its agenda is linked to events in accordance with applicable UK rules.
The statements on internal control before they are the Companys financial calendar.
Each committee also monitors the extent of nonagreed by the Board for each years annual member of the committee may require audit work which the external auditors can report.
The Board retains overall responsibility reports on matters of interest in addition to perform, to ensure that the provision of those for internal control and the identification and the regular items.
Members attendance at the non-audit services that can be undertaken by management of business risk.
meetings held during the year is set out in the the external auditors falls within the agreed table on page 29. policy and does not impair their objectivity or The Companys whistle-blowing or Speak Up independence.
In this respect the committee policy which is an extension of the Code of The committee invites Sir Roy Gardner, the has agreed that, unless there is no other Ethics sets out arrangements for the receipt, Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance competent and available provider, the in confidence, of complaints on accounting, Director, the Group Financial Controller and external auditors should be excluded from risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and the Director of Internal Audit together with providing the Company with general related matters which would, as appropriate, senior representatives of the external auditors consultancy and all other non-audit and nonbe reported to the committee.
A copy of the to attend each meeting although it reserves tax-related services.
Code of Ethics is available on the Companys part of each meeting for discussions without website at www.
Other senior Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, management are invited to present such the external auditors undertake some due Each year the committee reviews critically reports as are required for the committee to diligence reviews and provide assistance on its own performance and considers where discharge its duties.
tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of improvements can be made.
the Groups business although assistance on 1.
7.3 million of which relates to the continuing business.
29 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Internal audit The Nomination Committee meets on an as The Corporate Responsibility Committee The internal audit function is involved in the needed basis and at the date of this report is comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, assessment of the quality of risk management comprised of Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve and internal control and helps to promote and Sir James Crosby and Sir Ian Robinson.
Lucas, Mark White and the Group Human further develop effective risk management Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron stepped Resources Director.
The committees primary within the businesses.
Certain internal audit down as members of this committee upon responsibilities include: health, safety and assignments such as those requiring specialist their retirement as directors of the Company environmental practices, business conduct, expertise continue to be outsourced by the on 31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007 the promotion of employee engagement and Director of Internal Audit to KPMG LLP respectively as did Peter Blackburn upon his diversity and community investment.
A policy has been established retirement from the Board on 31 October regarding the recruitment of staff from 2007.
The committee reviews the structure, Disclosure Committee Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit Committee size and composition of the Board and its The Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew reviews internal audit reports and considers committees and makes recommendations with Martin, Mark White, the Group Financial the effectiveness of the function.
regard to any changes that are considered Controller and the Director of Corporate necessary, both in the identification and Strategy, Media and Investor Relations.
The Internal control nomination of new directors and appointment committee meets as required to deal with all In a highly decentralised Group, where local of members to the Board committees, and the matters relating to public announcements of managements have considerable autonomy to continuation of existing directors in office to the Company and the Companys obligations run and develop their businesses, a well ensure that there is a balanced Board in terms under the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules designed system of internal control is of skills, knowledge and experience.
The of the UK Listing Authority.
necessary to safeguard shareholders committee retains external search consultants investments and the Companys assets.
The as appropriate and reviews the leadership Executive Committee directors acknowledge that they have overall needs of the Group to enable it to compete The Executive Committee comprises, the responsibility for the Groups systems of effectively in the marketplace.
The committee executive directors of the Company, the internal control and for reviewing the also advises the Board on succession planning General Counsel and Company Secretary, effectiveness of those controls.
In accordance for executive Board appointments although Group Human Resources Director and with the guidance set out in the Turnbull the Board itself is responsible for succession the Group Managing Directors.
The Report, Internal Control: Guidance for generally.
The committee met four times committee normally meets monthly and it is Directors on the Combined Code, an during the year and director attendance for responsible for implementing Group policy, ongoing process had been established for such meetings is shown in the table below.
day-to-day management, monitoring business identifying, managing and evaluating the risks performance and reporting on these areas to faced by the Group.
This process has been in Remuneration Committee the Board.
place for the full financial year and up to the The committee comprises: Sir James Crosby date on which the financial statements were Chairman, Steve Lucas, Sven Kado and Meetings attendance approved.
Tim Parker all of whom are independent The table below shows the attendance of within the definition set out in the Code.
Val directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, The systems are designed to manage rather Gooding stepped down as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve committee upon her retirement as a director during the year.
the Groups objectives, safeguard the Groups of the Company on 31 December 2006.
Sir assets against material loss, fairly report the James Crosby succeeded Peter Cawdron as Chairman of the committee on 17 February 2007.
The committee met six times during the year and director attendance for each meeting Directors attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination is shown in the table below.
The committee is Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings responsible for making recommendations on Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible remuneration to the Board.
The Directors Name of director Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend remuneration report is set out on pages Peter Blackburn 893434 33 to 39.
1 Peter Cawdron 333333 Richard Cousins 99 The Chairman of the Remuneration 2 Sir James Crosby 453311 Committee attends the Annual General Sir Roy Gardner 994444 Meeting to respond to any shareholder 1 Val Gooding 222222 questions that might be raised on the 2 Gary Green 77 committees activities.
Sven Kado 893466 Steve Lucas 894466 General Business Committee Andrew Martin 99 The General Business Committee comprises 2 Tim Parker 452222 all the executive directors and meets as 2 Sir Ian Robinson 782211 required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by This table shows only those meetings which each director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron retired as directors on 31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007 respectively.
the Board and subject to those matters 2.
Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green were appointed directors on 1 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 respectively.
Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker were appointed directors on 17 February 2007.
30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Corporate governance continued Groups performance and position and to Control procedures Compliance statement ensure compliance with relevant legislation, The Board reviews its strategic plans and The Company applied all of the principles set regulation and best practice including that objectives on an annual basis and approves out in section 1 of the Code for the period related to social, environmental and ethical Group company budgets and strategies in under review and has throughout the year matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not light of these.
Control is exercised at Group complied with the detailed provisions set out absolute, assurance against material and business level through the Groups MAP therein.
Such systems are process and monthly monitoring of reviewed by the Board to deal with changing performance by comparison with budgets, The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche circumstances.
forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits LLP, are required to review whether the above to Group companies by the Group Chief statement reflects the Companys compliance A summary of the key financial risks inherent Executive and the Group Finance Director.
with the nine provisions of the Code specified in the Groups business is given on page 16.
Group businesses approve and submit risk for its review by the Listing Rules of the UK Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral reports for the Board on a bi-annual basis, Listing Authority and to report if it does not part of the annual planning cycle.
Each summarising the key risks facing their reflect such compliance.
No such report has business documents the strategic objectives businesses and the controls in place to manage been made.
and the effectiveness of the Groups systems those risks.
These reports, together with of internal control.
As part of the review, each reports on internal control and departures, if Communications with shareholders significant business and function has been any, from established Group procedures The Company places considerable required to identify and document each prepared by the internal and external importance on communication with its significant risk, together with the mitigating auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance shareholders, including its employee actions implemented to manage, monitor and Director and the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Executive report to the management on the effectiveness companies also submit bi-annual risk and and the Group Finance Director are closely of these controls.
Senior managers are also internal control assurance letters to the Group involved in investor relations and a senior required to sign bi-annual confirmations of Finance Director on internal control and risk executive has day-to-day responsibility for compliance with key procedures and to report management issues, with comments on the such matters.
The views of the Companys any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these control environment within their operations.
major shareholders are reported to the Board procedures.
Summarised results have been The Group Finance Director summarises by the Group Chief Executive and the Group presented to senior management including these submissions for the Audit Committee Finance Director as well as by Sir Roy to the Executive Committee and to the Audit and the Chairman of the Audit Committee Gardner who remains in contact with the Committee.
These processes have been in reports to the Board on any matters that have 10 largest shareholders and discussed at its place throughout the financial year ended arisen from the committees review of the way meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts 30 September 2007 and have continued to the in which risk management and internal are available to all shareholders either in date of this report.
The Board has reviewed control processes have been applied.
paper form or electronically and can be the effectiveness of the Groups system of accessed via the Companys website at internal control for the year under review and The Board has formal procedures in place for www.
a summary of the principal control structures approval of investment and acquisition and processes in place across the Group is set projects, with designated levels of authority, There is regular dialogue with institutional out below.
supported by post investment review processes shareholders and this has been extended to for selected acquisitions and major capital include private shareholders through the Control environment expenditure.
The Board considers social, Annual General Meeting and meetings Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for environmental and ethical matters in relation with the United Kingdom Shareholders the Groups system of internal control and for to the Groups business and assesses these Association.
Contact with institutional reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
shareholders and with financial analysts, responsibility for the operation of the internal The Board is conscious of the effect such brokers and the media is controlled by control and risk management programme to matters may have on the shortand long-term written guidelines to ensure the protection of the Executive Committee.
The detailed value of the Company.
The external auditors share price sensitive information that has not review of internal control has been delegated of the Company and the Director of Internal already been made generally available to the to the Audit Committee.
The management of Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and Companys shareholders.
Contact is also each business is responsible for internal receive its papers.
The report of the Audit maintained, when appropriate, with control and risk management within its own Committee is set out on page 28 and the shareholders to discuss overall remuneration business and for ensuring compliance with the Audit Committee members meet regularly plans and policies.
The Groups preliminary Groups policies and procedures.
Each with the Director of Internal Audit and the and interim results, as well as all business has appointed a risk champion whose external auditors without the presence of announcements issued to the London Stock primary role in such capacity is to ensure executive management.
Exchange, are published on the Companys compliance by local management with the website at www.
The Groups risk management and internal There were no changes to the Companys Company issues regular trading updates and control programme.
The internal and the internal control over financial reporting that will issue interim management statements to external auditors have reviewed the overall occurred during the year ended 30 September the market and these, together with copies of approach adopted by the Group towards its 2007 that have affected materially, or are presentations and interviews with the Group risk management activities so as to reinforce reasonably likely to affect materially, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director these internal control requirements.
Companys internal control over financial are, and will be, posted on the Companys reporting.
The Notice of Meeting is circulated 31 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 to all shareholders at least 20 working days operates the Compass Group Share Option scheme.
As with the Plan and CRISP, the before such meeting and it is Company policy Plan for senior employees and there are rules Scheme has a corporate trustee.
The not to combine resolutions to be proposed at in place for all-employee share plans in the Chairman, David Bishop, is independent.
All shareholders are invited UK and overseas.
No grants were made The remaining seven trustee directors are to the Companys Annual General Meeting under any of these plans during the year UK-based employees or former employees at which they have the opportunity to put ended 30 September 2007 2006: nil.
Further of the Group, three of whom have been questions to the Board and it is standard details regarding the plans, including the total nominated by Scheme members.
Permanent practice to have the Chairmen of the Audit, number of options outstanding, are set out in employees outside of the UK are usually Nomination and Remuneration Committees notes 24 and 26 to the financial statements offered membership of local pension available to answer questions.
The proxy votes on pages 74 to 79.
Details of awards made to arrangements if and where they exist and for and against each resolution, as well as directors of the Company under the Compass where it is appropriate to have company abstentions which may be recorded on the Group Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP sponsored arrangements.
form of proxy accompanying the Notice of are set out on page 36.
The Plan is described Meeting, are counted before the Annual in more detail in the directors remuneration Employees are offered a range of benefits General Meeting and the results will be made report on pages 35 and 36 which shows the depending on the local environment, such as available at the meeting after shareholders total number of LTIP awards outstanding as private medical cover.
Priority is given to the have voted on each resolution on a show at 30 September 2007. training of employees and the development of of hands.
The results are also announced their skills is of prime importance.
Employment to the London Stock Exchange and are Employee policies and involvement of disabled people is considered on merit with published on the Companys website shortly The Group places particular importance on regard only to the ability of any applicant to after the meeting.
the involvement of its employees, keeping carry out the function required.
Arrangements them regularly informed through informal to enable disabled people to carry out the Donations bulletins and other in-house publications, function required will be made if it is The Companys corporate responsibility meetings and the Companys internal website, reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming report is set out on pages 18 to 23.
The on matters affecting them as employees and disabled would, where appropriate, be offered Groups charitable donations in 2007 on the issues affecting their performance.
The Group continues to operate totalled 1,162,000 2006: 1,556,000.
Each EU countrys business operates a on a highly decentralised basis.
This provides domestic works council of workforce the maximum encouragement for the At each Annual General Meeting held since representatives and delegates from these development of entrepreneurial flair, 2004, shareholders have passed a resolution, bodies are selected by the representatives balanced by a rigorous control framework on a precautionary basis, to approve to attend the Compass European Council exercised by a small head office team.
Local donations to political organisations and to which has been in operation since 1996 and managements are responsible for maintaining incur political expenditure as such terms which provides a forum for dialogue and high standards of health and safety and for were defined under the Companies Act 1985 consultation with employees on significant ensuring that there is appropriate employee not exceeding 125,000 per annum.
The developments in the Groups operations, involvement in decision-making.
Board has consistently confirmed that it managements plans and expectations, operates a policy of not giving any cash organisational changes within the Group Creditor payment policy contribution to any political party in the and for employee representatives to consult All Group companies are responsible for ordinary meaning of those words and that it management about concerns over any aspect establishing terms and conditions with their has no intention of changing that policy.
The of the Groups operations.
At the date of suppliers and it is Group policy that payments directors, however, propose to seek renewed this Report, there are 23 member country are made within such agreed terms and authority for the Group to make political businesses represented from the EU and EFTA, conditions.
The amount of trade creditors donations and incur political expenditure comprising 33 employee representatives.
for the Group as at 30 September 2007 was as such terms are defined in sections 362 to equivalent to 48 days 2006: 48 days for the 365 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act Permanent UK employees are usually continuing business of trade purchases.
of not more that 125,000 in total until the invited to join either the Companys defined Companys next Annual General Meeting, contribution scheme CRISP or the Shareholder services which they might otherwise be prohibited Companys stakeholder arrangement.
The Share Portal is a service offered by our from making or incurring under the terms However, those UK employees who transfer registrars, Capita Registrars, which allows of the Act and which would not amount from the public sector under the Transfer of shareholders online access to a range of to donations in the ordinary sense of the Undertakings Protection of Employment shareholder information.
The authority sought by Resolution Regulations 2006 will be eligible to join the provides access to details of shareholdings 14 in the Notice of Meeting will last until the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, in the Company and practical help on Companys next Annual General Meeting.
a defined benefit arrangement which is transferring shares and updating personal otherwise closed to new entrants.
It enables shareholders to receive Awards under employee share corporate trustee.
The Chairman, Tony Allen, shareholder communications electronically, schemes is independent.
The other five trustee directors rather than by post and it also enables In March 2007 options were granted under are UK-based employees of the Group, two of shareholders to appoint proxies to attend and the Compass Group Management Share whom have been nominated by CRISP vote at general meetings of the Company.
Option Plan over 4,198,525 ordinary shares members.
The Plan has a corporate trustee To register, shareholders simply need to log 2006: 7,813,300 to senior employees of the with two independent directors, including the on to www.
com and follow Group at an option price of 335.75 pence per Chairman Peter Morriss.
There are a further the instructions to register.
In September 2007 further options seven trustee directors and they are UK-based registering for the Share Portal will need to were granted under the Compass Group employees or former employees of the Group, have their investor code to hand which is Management Share Option Plan over four of whom have been nominated by Plan shown on share certificates and on the form 265,354 ordinary shares to a further 15 senior members.
The other main UK pension of proxy sent with this report.
employees of the Group at an option price of arrangement, the Compass Pension Scheme 310.75 pence per share.
The Company also the Scheme is a closed defined benefit 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Corporate governance continued The Companys ordinary shares can be Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping traded through most banks, building societies, The directors are responsible for preparing proper accounting records which disclose with stockbrokers or share shops in the UK and, the annual report and the financial reasonable accuracy at any time the financial in addition, Capita Registrars provide a statements.
The directors are required to position of the Company, for safeguarding the share dealing service maximum deal size prepare financial statements for the Group assets, for taking reasonable steps for the 25,000 which is available to shareholders in accordance with International Financial prevention and detection of fraud and other who live in the UK.
This is a simple and Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company irregularities and for the preparation of a convenient way to buy and sell shares over law requires the directors to prepare such directors report and directors remuneration the telephone and on the Internet without the financial statements in accordance with IFRS, report which comply with the requirements need to pre-register and complete application the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the of the Companies Act 1985.
To use this service either log on to IAS Regulation.
having prepared the financial statements, www.
com or call 0871 664 0445 have permitted the auditors to take whatever Monday to Friday between 8.00a.
m. and International Accounting Standard 1 requires steps and undertake whatever inspections they 4.30p.
m.. Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus that financial statements present fairly for consider to be appropriate for the purpose of network extras.
each financial year the Groups financial enabling them to give their audit opinion.
position, financial performance and cash Further shareholder information is set out flows.
This requires the faithful representation The directors are responsible for the on page 91. of the effects of transactions, other events maintenance and integrity of the Compass and conditions in accordance with the Group PLC website.
Legislation in the United CREST definitions and recognition criteria for assets, Kingdom governing the preparation and The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling liabilities, income and expenses set out in dissemination of financial statements may Eurobonds are in CREST, the settlement the International Accounting Standards differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
system for stocks and shares.
Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In Auditors virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue will be achieved by compliance with all as auditors of the Company and Resolution 9 applicable International Financial Reporting in the Notice of Meeting concerning their Standards.
Directors are also required to: reappointment and Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting concerning the properly select and apply accounting determination of their remuneration are to policies: be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
present information, including accounting The directors confirm that, so far as they policies, in a manner that provides relevant, are each aware, there is no relevant audit reliable, comparable and understandable information of which Deloitte & Touche LLP information: are unaware and each director has taken all provide additional disclosures when the steps that ought to have been taken as a compliance with the specific requirements director to be aware of any relevant audit in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to information and to establish that Deloitte & understand the impact of particular Touche LLP are aware of that information.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial On behalf of the Board performance: and Mark J White prepare the accounts on a going concern General Counsel and Company Secretary basis unless, having assessed the ability of 28 November 2007 the Group to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
