SEGRO plc Annual Report 2007 41. of the special dividend.
A net tax refund of 4.1 million Hedging policies was received in the year 2006: 11.6 million tax paid The Group has established policies on interest rate and primarily due to a tax refund in the UK relating to prior foreign currency translation exposures, liquidity and years.
In addition, tax of 87.2 million was paid on the funding.
These policies state that around 85 per cent of profit on the sale of the US property business and REIT the Groups debt portfolio should attract a fixed or and SIIC conversion charges paid of 41.0 million and capped rate of interest and that between 75 per cent 3.5 million, respectively.
90 per cent of foreign currency assets should be matched with liabilities of the same currency.
After payment of the dividend, there was a net funds inflow of 547.6 million 2006: 336.5 million outflow.
Interest rate exposure Allowing for the decrease in borrowings in 2007, the net As at 31 December 2007, 83 per cent 2006: 83 per cent cash inflow for the period was 185.7 million 2006: of the gross debt portfolio attracted a fixed or capped 15.1 million outflow.
rate of interest at a weighted average rate of 5.6 per cent 2006: 6.0 per cent.
Much of this debt was in the form of Proceeds from disposals amounted to 1,707.0 million fixed rate debt issues raised through Sterling including 1499.7 million from the sale of the US property Eurobonds.
Such fixed-rate debt issues are held in the business and Slough Heat & Power, and 207.3 million balance sheet at amortised cost.
Interest rate swaps, from the sale of investment and development properties.
caps, collars and forward rate agreements are also used to convert variable rate bank debt to fixed rate.
The 17 Further analysis of acquisitions and disposals in the year per cent of debt remaining at a variable rate of interest is included on pages 26 and 32. brought the overall weighted average cost of debt down to 5.5 per cent 2006: 5.8 per cent.
Financial position At 31 December 2007 the Groups borrowings totalled The Group has decided not to elect to hedge account its 2,049.4 million 31 December 2006: 2,384.8 million.
Therefore movements Cash balances totalled 348.3 million 2006: 161.4 in the fair value are taken to the Income Statement but, million resulting in reported net debt amounting to in accordance with EPRA recommendations, these gains 1,701.1 million 2006: 2,223.4 million.
The weighted and losses are eliminated from adjusted profit before tax average maturity of the debt portfolio was 10.5 years.
Unsecured borrowings represent 96 per cent of gross Foreign currency translation exposure debt at the year end.
Secured debt totalled 80.2 million Due to the nature of the Groups business it has no representing some historical mortgage debt domiciled in cross-border trading transactions and therefore, foreign the Groups overseas operations.
1,383.7 million of debt exchange transaction exposure is negligible.
However, it domiciled in the UK was unsecured and was issued by does have operations located overseas which transact SEGRO plc without any supporting up-stream business in the domestic currency of the country in guarantees.
585.5 million of unsecured debt was issued which the business is located mostly in Euros.
The by subsidiary companies located overseas.
Groups main currency exposure therefore is the translation risk associated with converting net currency Reported financial gearing was 57 per cent 2006: 66 per assets back into sterling in the Group consolidated cent or 56 per cent 2006: 61 per cent after adding accounts at each balance sheet date.
As mentioned back deferred tax of 67.0 million 2006: 276.1 million.
above, the policy is that between 75 per cent 90 per The loan to value ratio net debt divided by property cent of currency denominated assets must be matched assets of the Group at 31 December 2007 was 34 per with liabilities of the same currency.
At 31 December cent 2006: 38 per cent.
2007, 221.1 million or 7 per cent of currency Interest cover based upon adjusted profit before interest denominated net assets were exposed to exchange and tax and adjusted net finance costs was 2.6 times, or movements.
A 10 per cent movement in the value of 2.4 times if capitalised interest is included.
The market sterling against all currencies in which the Group value of borrowings of the Group at the end of December operates would change net assets by 25.2 million and 2007 was 2,004.5 million, 44.9 million lower than the net assets per share by 6 pence or 0.9 per cent.
Funds availability at 31 December totalled 1,136.5 million, comprised of 348.3 million of cash deposits and 788.2 million of undrawn bank facilities.
Only 25 million of the Groups facilities are uncommitted overdraft lines with the balance of undrawn facilities being fully committed and with 738.9 million remaining available to 2010 12.
ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE At SEGRO corporate responsibility is fundamental to the way in which we do business.
Our strategy is to embrace our company policies and focus on our relevant financial, economic, social and environmental risks and opportunities.
We continuously strive to enhance our relationships with stakeholders, treat our employees, suppliers and the communities where we operate as long-term partners, and achieve the highest possible safety standards whilst considering the sustainability impacts of what we do.
SEGRO participates in several benchmarking indices How we manage corporate responsibility such as FTSE4Good, Dow Jones and the Business in the SEGRO has a corporate responsibility policy statement, Community BITC Environmental index.
and continuous improvement lies at the heart of our corporate responsibility management strategy.
Our We aim to behave ethically and strategically manage Group Risk and Responsibility Committee constantly risk.
We have a Business Ethics Code in place to reviews what we can do better to help our key strengthen our commitment to integrity and responsible stakeholders and maintain our competitive advantage.
The components of our corporate responsibility management system are: We are constantly working to improve corporate  activities across the Group and, as SEGRO continues to expand, we seek to address challenges by further embedding our corporate responsibility commitments across the business.
We have recently appointed a Head of Sustainability to lead a new, dedicated function.
The aim of this function is to raise sustainability to a new level, embedding it in all aspects of the way we do business Environmental, Health & Safety, Corporate and Social Responsibility and beyond.
Sustainability and Environment The Group takes a considered approach to the important issue of sustainability and the management of our environmental impacts.
We have implemented an Environmental Management System across our Continental European operations to ensure a uniform approach in the management of our environmental Ian Coull, Chief Executive is the Board member with impacts such as energy use, waste management, use of overall responsibility for corporate responsibility.
The natural resources and bio-diversity.
committee consists of senior executives who are responsible for corporate responsibility management In collaboration with the Carbon Trust we have produced within their areas of responsibility.
a measurement tool to evaluate the carbon footprint of our industrial estates with a view to setting ongoing SEGROs commitment to corporate responsibility is to improvement targets.
We also participated in the Carbon ensure that all business processes, procedures and Disclosure Project, disclosing our Group-wide carbon reporting reflect current best practice wherever possible.
Each year we identify a number of targets to track our With the implementation of the new European Energy corporate responsibility progress, evaluate our success Performance of Buildings Directive, we continue to look in managing material issues and, where possible, at innovative technologies to improve the energy compare performance against industry peers.
performance on our new developments and also our existing properties.
We will do this by measuring and Our performance against these targets will be disclosed recording the energy performance of all our buildings, in our forthcoming corporate responsibility report, both which is over and above that required by the European in print and on the SEGRO website.
A full list of our Energy Performance of Buildings Directive.
targets for 2008 will also be available on our website.
Incorporating technologies such as photovoltaic panels, the use of SEGROs Annual Accident Incident Rate ground source heat pumps and green roofs, we are working to ensure 2,372 our buildings are both sustainable and energy efficient in the future.
1,970 Together with our customers we are ensuring that our buildings are 1,818 used in the most energy efficient manner.
With the Carbon Trust, we will arrange energy audits for our high energy dependent customers with advice on how to make improvements.
We also engage with our frontline suppliers consultants and contractors to raise awareness of our approach to environmental issues.
We do this by holding environmental workshops annually and agreeing a consistent approach with our suppliers throughout our development programme.
Our most significant sustainability and environmental impacts arise from the built environment.
We therefore give particular emphasis to 05 06 07 the following aspects of our projects: Number of reportable accidents per 100,000 employees Improving the energy efficiency of our new and existing buildings by cost effective and innovative design solutions UK Health and Safety Awareness Training 2007 Integrating flexibility and adaptability into design, thereby ensuring 100 our developments meet or exceed planned life expectancy 90 Minimising pollution to air, land and water throughout the construction process 80 Improving natural resource efficiency by reducing the use of non- 70 renewable natural resources, both in construction and in use 60 Throughout our construction activities, we have committed to 50 reduce waste to landfill by 50 per cent by 2012 40 More details are available in our separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
30 20 Health and Safety 10 Health and Safety remains one of our highest priorities.
We focus on continuous improvement by ensuring that safety performance is 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec reported and recognised across the Group.
Our policies, procedures and standards are under constant review to ensure that our employees Numberof employees who undertooktraining and visitors operate in a safe and healthy environment.
Percent of employees who completed training 2007 saw a complete review of our Health and Safety policy.
As part of this review we introduced a Health and Safety management system, Sustainability Targets which can be audited to ISO 18001 standards, across our UK operations.
A SEGRO Health and Safety policy booklet was issued to all 1.
Improve energy ratings of existing stock employees.
A computer-based Health and Safety awareness training during major refurbishments system was introduced to the UK and all employees completed the 2.
Reduce construction waste to landfill by training see graph.
We continue to ensure a positive Health and 50 per cent by 2012 with an interim Safety culture by auditing our performance and sharing information target of 25 per cent by 2010 and best practice across the Group, focusing on communication and by 3.
Trial the use of photovoltaic panels on active involvement of our senior executives.
Ian Coull is the appointed two SEGRO properties across main Board Director with responsibility for Health and Safety.
Continental Europe In 2007 there was a considerable focus on Health and Safety standards 4.
Ensure zero pollution incidents during throughout our Continental European operations.
This required a construction activities detailed review of European Health and Safety legislation and how it should be applied across countries.
We undertook a Health and Safety audit across all Continental European operations and the results of this have helped us to set Health and Safety targets and priorities for 2008.
A Health and Safety representative has been appointed for each country.
This has enabled a local focus for Health and Safety whilst allowing improved communication between Continental Europe and the UK.
