- The Groups whistleblowing policy which was updated during the year and circulated to all Nomination Audit employees: - Developments in accounting and reporting committee committee requirements: - The Committees effectiveness: report report - The performance and independence of the external auditors concluding in a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the auditors by shareholders Membership of the Committee Membership of the Committee at the Annual General Meeting.
The auditors John Manser Chairman of the Committee Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Committee provide annually a letter to the Committee John Emly John Emly confirming their independence and stating the Alastair MacDonald Alastair MacDonald methods they employ to safeguard their Gordon McQueen independence: and The Audit Committee is comprised solely of - Non-audit assignments awarded to the The Committee is comprised of the Chairman of independent non-executive Directors.
the Group and independent non-executive were no changes to the membership of the Award of Non-audit Assignments Directors.
There were no changes to the Committee during the year.
Gordon McQueen is membership of the Committee during the year.
a Member of the Institute of Chartered to the External Audit Firm Accountants of Scotland and a Fellow of the The policy of the Committee is that non-audit Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
John assignments will not be awarded to the audit Meetings Emly is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered firm where there is a risk of a conflict arising The Committee met once during the year ended Secretaries.
with their audit independence and objectivity.
It has been agreed that the Committee will Main activities of the Committee review and approve the award of all non-audit Meetings assignments to the external audit firm in The Committee is responsible for the selection The Committee met three times during the year excess of 25,000. and nomination to the Board of candidates for ended 30 September 2007.
The Finance Director directorship and in addition advises the Board on and representatives of the external auditors have The audit fees for the Company and the Group the orderly succession for appointment of been invited to attend each meeting.
The are relatively low due primarily to the simple Directors and monitors the balance of the Committee considers some items of business corporate structure of the Group.
Audit fees for composition of the Board.
In the year under without executives or the external auditors the year totalled 115,000.
During the year, review, the Committee has undertaken: present as appropriate.
 undertook non-audit work for the Group totalling 191,000.
Of this - The monitoring of the composition of the Board: amount, 103,000 related to taxation compliance Main activities of the Committee - Board succession planning: and associated matters, a one off charge of The principal responsibilities of the Committee 58,000 in respect of the Groups conversion to - Nomination of Directors for re-election: and are to monitor the framework of financial REIT status and 30,000 in connection with the controls, review published financial information - A review of the annual Board and Committee Groups interim results and other services.
and monitor developments in financial reporting.
performance evaluations together with The Committee is satisfied that none of the nonIn addition, it advises the Board on the recommendations to the Board.
audit assignments awarded to appointment of external auditors and their  during the year gave remuneration for both audit and non-audit work.
On behalf of the Board rise to any risk that the auditors objectivity and In the year under review the Committee has performance of their statutory audit reviewed and monitored: John Manser responsibilities would be compromised.
Nomination Committee Chairman - Published annual and interim financial  have confirmed to the information including consideration of the 5 December 2007 Committee that they have internal procedures in appropriateness of accounting policies and place to identify any aspects of non-audit work material assumptions and estimates adopted which could compromise their role as auditors, by management: and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
- Managements reports to the Board on risk In addition, they have confirmed that the total and internal controls and the Groups public fees paid by the Group do not represent a statements on these matters: material part of their firms fee income and that they have maintained their independence.
- The risk and control strategies of the Groups principal managing agents.
During the year an external operational review was undertaken of On behalf of the Board one of these firms: Gordon McQueen - Appointment of external consultant to Audit Committee Chairman undertake a review of the Groups operational 5 December 2007 processes and controls: - The need to establish an internal audit function: AnnualReport2007 57
