21977 Text p46-p88 10 12 07 18:32 Page 48 Each of the executive Directors is a member of Functioning of the Board a recognised professional body and is expected Corporate The Board met five times during the year ended to act in accordance with the ethical principles 30 September 2007.
Its function is to formulate of the relevant body.
The non-executive Directors strategy and monitor and control operating and governance are of high calibre and contribute wide-ranging financial performance.
This is achieved through business and financial experience to the Boards the regular review of operations and detailed decision making process.
Biographies of each reports on activity within the Groups property member of the Board are set out on page 43 and portfolio, quarterly financial reporting and The Board of Directors is responsible their terms of appointment are available for forecast up-dates, and regular reviews of risks inspection at the Companys registered office.
to shareholders for the strategic and internal controls.
direction and management and All Directors are required to submit themselves for In addition to Board meetings, there is frequent control of the Groups activities and election at the Annual General Meeting following and regular communication between executive is committed to high standards of their appointment and thereafter for re-election and non-executive Directors to ensure that the at three yearly intervals.
Non-executive Directors Corporate Governance in achieving non-executive Directors are fully aware of all who have completed nine years service are required these goals.
The Board confirms that aspects of the Groups operations.
Non-executive to submit themselves for annual re-election in Directors met once during the year without the Group has complied throughout accordance with the Companys Articles of executive Directors or the Company Secretary the year with the recommendations Association and the Combined Code.
of the Combined Code on Corporate The Chairman, John Manser, holds a number of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Governance issued in July 2003 the non-executive directorships.
The Board considers all the Directors continually update their skills Combined Code in all respects that the time commitment required by his other and the knowledge required to fulfil their role other than the recommendation that roles does not impact on his Chairmanship of on the Board and the Boards Committees.
None of the executive Directors the Board should comprise at least Technical updates dealing with changes in has held any non-executive directorship at an equal number of independent legislation and regulation relevant to the Groups a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship business are provided regularly to the Board by non-executive Directors to executive of such a company.
The application of the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive principles contained in the Combined There is a formal schedule of matters reserved are split.
The Chairman is responsible for for the Board for decision which includes, inter Code is described below.
the leadership of the Board, ensuring its alia, approval of all investment property effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief acquisitions and disposals, refurbishment and Executive has responsibility for the management Composition of the Board property management strategies and all of the Groups day-to-day operations.
A formal The Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, significant aspects of finance.
The schedule statement of the division of responsibilities four executive Directors and three non-executive of matters reserved for the Board is available between the Chairman and Chief Executive Directors for the entire year.
There were no on the Groups website.
has been adopted by the Board.
changes to the composition of the Board during All Directors have access to the Company the year.
Each of the non-executive Directors is The Board has a Senior Independent Director, Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that considered to be independent of the executive John Emly, whose role includes being available Board procedure, corporate governance, management of the Group and free from any to shareholders if required.
He is also a statutory and compliance obligations are met business or other relationship which could nominated contact for employees under the and that Board discussions and decisions are materially interfere with the exercise of their Groups whistle blowing policy.
Directors may seek independent judgement.
John Manser was The Group has a highly committed and experienced independent professional advice at the Groups considered independent at the date of his expense in furtherance of their duties as executive Board with the qualifications and appointment as Chairman in October 2004 experience for the running of the Group.
but for the purposes of the Combined Code Nomination Committee recognises that succession and the balance of executive and non-executive planning is important to the future continuing Directors on the Board, he is excluded.
Board Committees performance of the Group and it considers The Board has established three committees to The Board is satisfied with the balance between succession planning for the Board and senior deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: executive and non-executive Directors which management on a regular basis.
The terms allows it to exercise objectivity in decision-making of reference of these Committees are available and proper control of the Groups business.
The on the Groups website.
The Company Secretary Board considers its composition is appropriate in acts as Secretary to each of the Committees and view of the size and requirements of the Groups the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
business and the need to maintain a practical Separate reports from the Committees are set balance between executives and non-executives.
The Nomination Committee keeps the composition of the Board under review.
48 AnnualReport2007 Attendance at Meetings Directors attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings convened in the year ended 30 September 2007 is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee AGM EGM Number of meetings in year 53 2 1 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Executive Directors J S Lane 5 - - - 2 B Bickell 5 - - - 2 S J Quayle 5 - - - 2 T J C Welton 5 - - - 1 Non-Executive Directors P J Manser 5 - 2 1 1 J R K Emly 5 3 2 1 1 A W MacDonald 4 3 2 0 1 W G McQueen 5 3 2 1 1 The meetings recorded above are the scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
Additional ad hoc meetings are held between the main meetings to deal with routine and operational matters as required and are not included in the meetings reported above.
The Senior Independent Director is available b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits Board Performance to shareholders as an alternative channel of of authority.
The Board has responsibility The Board carries out an annual review of its communication with the Board.
for strategy and has adopted a schedule performance and effectiveness.
The process of matters which are required to be brought includes completion by all members of the to it for decision.
Board of a comprehensive questionnaire which Internal Control incorporates the criteria recommended by the c A comprehensive system of financial The Directors are responsible for the Groups Good Practice Suggestions contained in the reporting and forecasting.
Financial accounts systems of internal controls and for reviewing Higgs Report.
The questionnaire addresses the are prepared quarterly and submitted to the their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed composition and function of the Board and each Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks of its Committees and includes an assessment prepared at least quarterly, approved by the faced by the business and can provide only of each Director and the Chairman by his peers.
Board and used to monitor actual reasonable and not absolute assurance against performance.
The results of the Board Performance are considered by the Nomination Committee and d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to the Board.
The non-executive Directors, led by Committee at which financial information is review both the risks facing the business and the the Senior Independent Director, were responsible reviewed and business risks are identified controls established to minimise those risks and for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, and monitored.
The aim of these taking into account the views of the executive reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that In view of the Groups controls structure Directors.
The Board Performance review material risks and problems are identified and summarised above, and on advice from the Audit carried out in 2007 did not reveal any aspects of appropriate action taken at an early stage.
Reports Committee, the Board has resolved that at the the Boards performance or effectiveness which on this review process are submitted to the Audit present time there is no need to establish an were considered to be unsatisfactory.
Committee and the Board during the year to internal audit function.
enable them to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group complies Relations with Shareholders Going Concern with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group encourages dialogue with all Comprehensive financial forecasts are prepared shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and The key risks identified in these review at least quarterly and submitted to the Audit during the year.
The Chairman and Committee processes are summarised in the Business Committee for review.
Based on the information Chairmen are present at the Annual General Review on page 34. contained in these forecasts, the Directors have Meeting to deal with any matters raised by The Board confirms that procedures to identify, a reasonable expectation that the Group and the shareholders and all other Directors are evaluate and manage the significant risks faced Company have adequate resources to continue encouraged to attend.
by the Group have been in place throughout the in operational existence for the foreseeable The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet year under review and up to the date of approval future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt investor representatives frequently and regularly of this Annual Report.
the going concern basis in preparing the during the year to discuss strategic and other financial statements.
The key elements of the Groups procedures and issues within the constraints imposed by the internal financial control framework, which are Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
By Order of the Board reviewed annually, are: On the announcement of the Groups annual Penny Thomas and half year results, the Chief Executive a The close involvement of the executive and Finance Director give presentations to Secretary Directors in all aspects of day-to-day institutional investors and analysts and hold operations, including regular meetings with 5 December 2007 a series of one to one briefings with key senior staff to review all operational aspects shareholders.
A copy of the presentation is of the business.
made available on the Groups website.
The Board receives regular reports on all shareholder meetings from the Chief Executive.
