Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 69 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 Corporate governance, risk management and approach to social, environmental and ethical SEE issues Workspace Group aims to operate with high standards of corporate between the non-executive directors without the executives present governance and wherever possible comply with the provisions of the usually at the time of full Board meetings and meetings between FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the non-executive directors without the Chairman present to review the Combined Code.
It believes that good governance is assisted by the Chairmans performance are held at least annually.
Details of transparent detailed reporting and that strong and sustainable longmeetings attended, including those meetings held where no term economic performance is aided by compliance with best practice executive member of the Board is present, are given on page 74. in corporate social responsibility CSR.
The Group publishes a range of material both on its website and in hard copy for details see Risk management page 92 including: The Board regularly reviews the Groups activities with a view to confirming that all sources of risk are identified.
An annual CSR review which last year was expanded as a recognised, not addressed by the financial controls described in the Sustainability Report to cover the implications of the London Plan Report of the Audit Committee see page 75, it has established a for the Groups strategy and approach to sustainable regeneration programme of management, monitoring and reporting.
This includes and this year addresses the Groups engagement with its a formal Risk Committee comprising an Executive Director and a customers and suppliers : number of senior staff, which assesses and reviews risks to the Group, identifies programmes to reduce the risks and reports 2.
A self-assessment checklist identifying compliance with each of regularly on this to the Audit Committee.
An analysis of the risks the detailed requirements of the Combined Code: identified by the Board and a summary in the form of responses to frequently asked questions may be found in the Investor Relations 3.
Quarterly Reports and section of the Groups website see page 92 or is available from the Company Secretary at the Groups registered office.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to The above material is complementary to this statement of the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and has been compliance with the Combined Code, which the Group is required regularly reviewed by the Board throughout the period.
also accords with the 2005 Turnbull Guidance.
Overall compliance with the combined code The following commentary addresses some of the principal Except in one respect, the directors believe that the Group has fully operational risks affecting the Groups business.
complied with the Combined Code throughout and after the year ended 31 March 2007.
The single exception concerns the composition Through its focus on cash flow, the Groups day-to-day procedures of the Board.
The Group has four executive directors, three in the letting and management of its properties control much of the independent non-executive directors, and a non-executive chairman.
operational risk associated with its business.
The commercial risk The Chairman is not regarded as independent under the Combined that the Group carries derives principally from its customer profile.
Code even though, prior to his appointment in November 2002, he The Group invests in accommodation let generally to smaller had no relationship with the Group.
The Code advises that for FTSE businesses which have a weaker covenant.
This has traditionally been 250 companies the number of independent non-executives should at perceived as a high-risk activity.
However, the Group has over 3,700 least equal the number of executive directors.
For such compliance excluding joint venture customers and receives in excess of 7,900 by Workspace, this would mean either reducing the number of enquiries for space per annum.
Its exposure, therefore, to any single executive directors or appointing another independent non-executive customer or business sector is low.
Given the selection process for non-executive directors described below and that the Board itself regards the Chairman as The letting risk is better assessed against the dynamics of the SME independent, the Board and within this the non-executive directors sector in the areas in which the Group operates, rather than in feel the balance of the Board is right for the Group.
At this stage relation to the fortunes of any one customer or group of customers.
therefore, the Board does not intend to appoint a further nonThe SME sector is resilient, growing and recognised as important by executive director, although this matter will be kept under review.
The properties held by the Group are generally ideal for long-term use by SMEs whose space requirements are Board and committee reports generally simple.
Our buildings are also less prone than many to These may be found on page 74. physical obsolescence, to change in technical and technological requirements and fashion.
Performance evaluation Day-to-day management of the Groups operations, including letting The Board reviews its performance and modus operandi and that of and property and financial management, follow simple but carefully each of its committees annually each Committee having in turn constructed processes.
The high numbers of customers coupled reviewed itself by reference to the needs of the business and required with a high churn rate generate high volumes of activity.
These performance reviews are normally demand responsive systems and procedures.
Through regular conducted internally by the Chairman of the Board or the respective routine reporting of key performance indicators, the Group is able committee, without facilitation but using self assessment to monitor developing patterns in its estates and respond swiftly.
The Board and each of its committees review and approve these assessments, taking action The commercial risks of the business are not the traditionally where considered necessary.
Included in this review is consideration perceived property risks but more akin to those taken by a businessof individual directors performance which in the case of the to-business service provider delivering services to the SME sector.
executive directors is undertaken as part of the wider performance Unlike most service providers, however, Workspace Group receives appraisal process applied to staff across the entire Group and a payment for these services in advance.
By contracting with its review of the performance of the Board as a whole including its customers for fixed regular payments, made in advance and often delegations, risk assessment and management processes, reporting further secured by a deposit, the Groups financial risk is greatly procedures and effectiveness in monitoring performance and reduced.
The Boards reviews of itself, its committees and its members conducted in the last year identified no significant Customers are subject to post entry and exit interviews.
Further, it is the policy of the Board to meetings are held on major issues, together with occasional focus consider the continuing suitability of all directors who are offered for groups.
Annual customer surveys are undertaken and customer re-election and review whether their continued contribution would be comments cards provided at all properties.
A complaints register of benefit to the Group.
Such a review has been undertaken this year is maintained.
Workspace Group commissions ongoing research over the proposed re-appointment of J Bywater, M Carragher and into the SME market to identify emerging needs.
The review concluded their positive continued effectiveness and commitment to the role.
Meetings are held Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 70 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 The level of occupancy at which the Group breaks even has been in Short-term SEE risks and opportunities the range 55-60% throughout the last five years.
With current overall There are two elements to the Workspace Group approach: occupancy of 84.8% and a lowest level of 75% during 1991, the last significant economic downturn, the Group has substantial resilience Firstly, careful identification of significant environmental and to changing economic circumstances.
These frequently relate to the activities of the Groups customers rather than those within its own direct control.
With the focus of its activities in London, the Group's exposure to Examples include: the fortunes of the city is significant and last years separate Sustainability Report expanded on this.
The Board agrees with the Land or water contamination on site: majority of commentators who consider that the long term prospects for London and for its SMEs remain better than those for the Health & Safety or crime incidents: remainder of the UK, and so believes that this risk is greatly outweighed by the opportunities it creates.
Its customer base within Transport related impacts and congestion charging: this region remains broadly distributed with no reliance on any single trading sector.
Environmental taxation such as the rising landfill tax or the climate change levy.
The key financial risk carried by the Group is its exposure to interest rate variations.
These are managed in two ways.
Firstly, through its Proposed acquisitions and existing property holdings are investigated investment in relatively higher yielding properties and its focus on carefully including identifying the potential extent of contamination management of the returns from these properties, the Group from existing or previously undertaken activities on-site.
These maintains high levels of interest cover.
Notwithstanding a gearing studies have identified that almost all the Groups properties are level of 65% based on adjusted net assets employed at 31 March unlikely to suffer from contamination and that, at those properties 2007, the interest on these borrowings was covered 1.63 times where the risk was higher, this was unlikely to give rise to damage excluding valuation surplus.
The Group further safeguards its and any associated liability.
These reports have been made position by use of instruments to manage interest rate exposure.
available to CB Richard Ellis for the purposes of the valuation.
At 31 March 2007 60% of the Groups debt was subject to hedging Potential contamination by customers is avoided by management either through fixed rate borrowings or through the use of interest of their activities or where the risk is not manageable, exclusion rate collars.
Workspace recognises the importance of its suppliers in providing Secondly, the Groups intensive style of management and the risk a quality service to its customers.
All suppliers are subject to an management programme undertaken jointly with the Groups approval process which extends to identification of their insurers, seeks to assist current tenants in recognising and environmental and safety policies.
At the year end the Group had over preventing health & safety, pollution, fire, and other risks.
The Group aims to use its customers as In addition, the Group makes significant efforts to work with its suppliers where they are competitive in price and quality.
Some 9% customers in order to raise their own awareness and find ways of of approved suppliers are also customers.
The Group aims to settle mitigating their impacts through partnership agreements all accounts within credit terms whenever possible.
The Group See separate Sustainability Report 2007. continuously seeks to find ways of improving the efficiency and performance of its supply chain.
This year we have introduced a Workspace is fully committed to supporting sustainability in the supplier scoring system, and we are prioritising sectors where more operation and development of its portfolio and has adopted clear or better suppliers are needed.
The Group uses a supplier scoring guidelines in communicating with and instructing its contractors system to promote suppliers providing good service and avoid those and consultants.
that have not met our required standards.
Standard appointments for design consultants require them Social, environmental and ethical SEE issues to apply principles of whole-life costing in order to identify the Workspace Group has long since taken its responsibilities to the most environmentally sustainable and financially viable design environment and wider society seriously.
Such aspects are considered solutions for the building.
to be part of the Companys core operating philosophy and are integrated within its standard operational procedures.
Indeed core On all major building contracts over 250,000 it is required social, environmental and ethical issues are addressed quite simply that contractors employed are committed to recycling by the nature of the Groups activities recycling old redundant waste materials and providing tangible certified evidence buildings to provide attractive accommodation packages for small to support this.
businesses, whilst providing a service support infrastructure for these small business customers.
An evaluation of renewable energy, energy saving and sourcing of sustainable and non-hazardous products and materials is As with all other risks, the Board has nominated a director the Chief made on major building projects to optimise expenditure and Executive with specific responsibility for management of the Groups value engineer solutions.
exposure to environmental and broader CSR risks.
The Board has identified and assessed the significant risks to the Companys short The Group considers that CSR and environmental polices should and long-term value arising from SEE matters, as well as the be founded not just on avoiding recognised unacceptable practice opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate but on active implementation of policies and practices that benefit response, and these risks are monitored regularly at Board level.
The Board receives adequate information to make this assessment and account is taken of SEE matters in the training of directors.
The Board has ensured that the Company has in place effective systems for managing significant risks, which, where relevant, incorporate performance management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
The Groups commitment to SEE risk management operates on both a short and a long-term horizon.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 71 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 In recognition of the importance of its customers in the arts and 100% of Workspaces developments are on brownfield land as they media sectors, the Group has introduced a Creative and Cultural consist of redeveloping old disused buildings and bringing them back Policy, details of which can be found on our website.
This is likely to enhance the Groups chances of gaining community involvement and investment is encouraged at all planning permission as the spatial development strategy for London managed sites, in the belief that this continues to reinforce the seeks to accommodate growth within existing boundaries and avoid Workspace Group brand and maintains competitiveness through encroachment on open spaces.
Workspaces portfolio also securing market share.
Employees are encouraged to take demonstrates significant opportunities for increasing density and appointments to agency boards via a staff Volunteering Policy and intensifying uses through further development opportunities, thereby the Company supports charitable initiatives where these assist providing much needed housing and other uses, and simultaneously customers eg cycling campaigns and art theatrical productions.
adding value to the portfolio.
Workspace also seeks to future proof Workspace aspires to membership of the PerCent club, although its properties by ensuring that they integrate efficient technologies prefers to assist through gifts in kind rather than cash since it and materials with low embodied energy to safeguard against considers that these can often be of greater direct assistance.
obsolescence or depreciation as energy prices continue to rise.
Where it undertakes development activities, Workspace Group engages with customers and the local community over its plans.
By providing SMEs in London with vital infrastructure at affordable and flexible rates, Workspace is making a significant contribution Given its focus on the smaller business community and thereby the to Londons ongoing economic growth particularly as a large community at large the Group is keenly interested in managing its proportion of its customers are in rapidly growing sectors such as public profile to avoid brand damage.
This extends not just to creative and green industries.
Contributing to Londons status as a community relations but to the operation of codes and standards world class city will in itself ensure that Workspaces customer base of conduct by its staff that would not risk damage to its reputation.
continues to grow as it attracts growing numbers of entrepreneurs The Groups Code of Conduct for employees prohibits the receipt and SMEs needed to provide services to the thriving business sector.
or payment of any bribes or facilitation payments, and requires all employees to operate within the law.
A Whistleblowing Policy and Sustainability Helpline exists to enable staff to report perceived breaches of the This year, the Group will be publishing its eighth consecutive annual code of conduct.
The Company has never suffered any fine or report on sustainability previously called Responsible Approach to penalty of any kind and it makes no donations to political parties.
Throughout each of these reports, the Group has consistently demonstrated how its approach to social, environmental and Long-term SEE risks and opportunities economic performance has added value to the business and assisted Workspace seeks to achieve long-term sustainable growth.
The in the delivery of its business objectives.
It is Workspaces belief that Group believes that SEE issues inherently underpin its long-term its strong commitment to sustainability forms a cornerstone of its licence to operate and opportunities for further expansion within the future growth strategy both in expanding within London and in London area.
As such, Workspace is conscious of the need for it to continuing to attract increasingly socially conscious customers.
identify changes occurring in London in its economy, population and employment: in the environmental challenges: and in life styles Management system and technology and to plan accordingly.
In 2006, we published a Sustainability Report which explicitly identified the ways in which the London business is already contributing to economic, environmental and Reporting social well-being in the capital, and to respond to major challenges Environmental limits so as to safeguard long-term sustainability.
climate change Population growth Workspace 7 key business strategy principles Workspace Groups work with Investment Property Databank IPD shows that its historic property returns have been in the top two quartiles of the property sector on a consistent basis.
Looking Implementation Mission & Corporate Economic & & review core values objectives Social inclusion forward, Workspace continues to work with Upstream and Property employment change Market Analysis PMA using The Third Dimension model, which seeks to link sustainability risk with risk adjusted returns for various Targets different property types.
The graph below shows that the Workspace & KPIs Lifestyle & mixed use property type outperforms all other property types in its technology changes sustainability characteristics as well as its risk adjusted returns.
Economic growth Monitoring progress Workspace continues to use a cyclical sustainability management system to drive continuous improvements in its environmental, social and economic approach.
At the core of Workspaces approach sit the corporate values, and the seven key principles that underpin the Companys sustainability strategy.
Each of these seven principles gives rise to a series of objectives and targets most of which are annual, although more recently longer-term targets have been set with responsibilities allocated across the senior management team, and throughout operational functions within the business.
Progress against the annual targets is formally audited by our third party advisors by way of assurance of this element of the Sustainability Reports.
Good Sustainability score Poor The sustainable returns of Workspaces portfolio Source: Upstream PMA The Third Dimension research 2006 High Risk Adjusted Return Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 72 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 Performance In 2006, a total of 27 sustainability targets were set, with a minimum of two to accompany each of the Groups seven key principles.
In summary, a total of 17 63% of these were fully achieved at year end, with a further six being more than half complete.
Two targets were not progressed at all during the year, and two were only partly achieved.
Significant CSR issues impacts Key Performance Indicators 2006 07 2005 06 Customers: Quality of service, competitive prices Proportion of customer calls answered within 12 seconds 99% 99% and leases Customer care and overall satisfaction Number of man-hours of training on customer care skills completed by Workspace Group staff hours 540 630 Health & Safety Total number of notifiable RIDDOR health & safety accidents recorded in on-site accident books at business centres 3 1 Employees: Equality and diversity Proportion of Workspace Group employees that are female 38% 40% Equality and diversity Proportion of employees from ethnic minorities 36% 31% Training and development Average spend per employee on training and development 680 680 Suppliers: Prompt and fair payment Average payment term from invoice date days 27.2 28 Communities: Community investment Total value of community investment cash and gifts in kind 119,975 154,030 Community investment Proportion of pre-tax profits spent on community investment % 1.0% 1.0% Environment: Climate change from direct energy use Carbon dioxide emissions associated with HQ Magenta House energy use kg 172,866 150,976 Climate change from indirect energy Carbon dioxide emissions associated with energy use in 2 purchased for customers common parts tenant occupied properties kg CO sq ft 3.38 3.52 Waste management indirect Waste recycled as proportion of total waste produced across customer waste portfolio % by weight 19.5 16 Highlights of our achievements during 2006 include: Increase in the recycling rate across the portfolio to almost 20% as a proportion of all the tenant waste produced through targeted communications and a recycling roadshow at 12 of our properties.
Significant progress in understanding the relative ecological and carbon footprint of both Workspace Groups own direct impacts, and those of its customers, culminating partly in the agreement of a carbon management plan for the future.
Introduction of an interim review of the staff bonus scheme has enabled us to review the number of staff with sustainability targets linked to their performance appraisals and this will continue to form a focus of our work going forwards.
6% of staff taking part in the employee volunteering scheme, thereby exceeding our target of 5% for the first year in which the scheme has run.
Workspace Group won the Mayor's Green Procurement Code Award during 2006, a significant achievement which recognises the Groups significant commitments to sustainable procurement and to recording spend on recycled content during the year.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 73 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 Future commitments Shareholder contact We will be working towards achieving a further 28 sustainability Meetings are held with principal shareholders following both the targets over the coming year, working towards a number of longerannouncement of the Groups preliminary and its interim results.
term goals and aspirations right up to 2012.
It is the practice of the Company that, ordinarily, meetings with shareholders will be attended by executive directors alone or Going forwards, as a further strengthening of our resolve to spread accompanied by representatives of the Companys stockbroker.
sustainability good practice, our strategy focuses very heavily on However, it is the Companys practice also, following the preliminary engaging with our key stakeholders to help and encourage them to results, that such contact meetings shall be followed up by a make a difference with us.
This is the key message behind our 2007 telephone conversation between the Chairman and the shareholder.
Sustainability Report, and will form the basis for much of our activity The Company also requires its stockbrokers to discuss the outcome in the coming year, along with a stronger focus on climate change of meetings with shareholders and report its findings to the Board.
impacts and energy monitoring and targeting.
The Board believes that this provides a better form or governance than attendance at meetings by non-executive directors.
Other Through the various studies which the Group has undertaken during ad hoc meetings and presentations and site visits are arranged 2006, we strongly believe that the collective difference that we can for shareholders throughout the year.
Dialogue with the wider make in partnership with our customers, staff and suppliers will be investment community is supported by the Company.
During the much more significant than any results we at Workspace Group year Board members presented at investor conferences.
Particular examples of our efforts to engage further in the coming year will include: If shareholders have any views on how the Groups practices may be improved further in the areas identified in this report then we will be To co-ordinate a poster email campaign, in partnership with pleased to receive them.
Please address any such comments to the national and regional environmental agencies, to encourage Company Secretary or, if appropriate, the Chairman or senior behavioural change among our customers around energy and independent non-executive director.
water use, and waste production.
Organise and run 'Environment Day' exhibitions at at least five R Mark Taylor centres to heighten tenant awareness of sustainable business Company Secretary practice, and enlist supplier participation to promote their 11 June 2007 sustainable products services.
Introduce imaginative means of communicating the energy, waste and water performance of five pilot centres to customers in those centres as a means of encouraging and incentivising more efficient practices.
Encourage at least 10% of employees to take part in the volunteering scheme.
To increase by 10% the amount of staff with CSR Sustainability targets in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07.
Develop an environmental best practice guide for the selection of building materials and refurbishment practices.
To develop and launch a Group-wide responsible procurement policy, incorporating sustainability standards relevant to our suppliers.
