Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of issued with Board papers in advance of each meeting.
This report sets out how the Company directors have concerns about the running of the Company, or complies with the principles contained in Section 1 of the actions, their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
The Board considers Below the Board level there are limits of authority allowing the that, throughout the financial year under review, the Company Executive Committee, comprising four executive directors and has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the senior management to make financial commitments.
In addition Combined Code with one exception.
No meetings were there are clear policies and procedures over the key risk areas requested or held between shareholders and the Chairman and over which management has been given delegated responsibility, senior independent non-executive director during the year.
including financial reporting, treasury, purchasing, milk However, the Board considers that arrangements are in place procurement, food safety and environmental matters.
to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
These arrangements include All directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary communication with the shareholders at the Annual General or independent professional advice at the expense of the Meeting AGM, regular feedback from the Chief Executive and Company.
During the year actions have been taken to ensure the Group Finance Director on their meetings with major that directors are regularly updated on and refresh their shareholders, and periodic reports to the Board on investor knowledge and awareness of corporate responsibilities.
relations together with feedback from the Companys brokers The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover for the on the views of major shareholders.
The Companys insurance cover also includes insurance of employers liability, public and product We describe below the way in which the Company complies liability and limited product recall risks.
New appointments to with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
the Board participate in induction programmes including briefings by members of the senior management team and The Board visits to Group facilities.
Currently the Board consists of the Chairman, Mr S M D Oliver, four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board has three Board Committees and the non-executive The table below identifies the number of Board and Committee directors are members of all committees.
Details of directors meetings held during the past year and the attendance of attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings are set each director.
out below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination On 31 December 2006, Mr J W D Hall retired as Chief Committee Committee Committee Executive and was succeeded by Mr M Allen, previously No.
of meetings in year 9 3 4 4 Executive Managing Director Dairies.
On 1 February 2007, Mr S M D Oliver 9 4 Mr M N Oakes was appointed to the Board as Executive Mr J W D Hall 7 Managing Director Dairies.
Mr M Allen 9 Mr D J Dugdale 5 1 2 3 Mr G E Grimstone 9 3 4 4 The Board has responsibility for the overall management and Mr H Mann 9 3 4 4 Mr A S N Murray 9 performance of the Group with the key objective of delivering Mr M N Oakes 1 shareholder value.
The Board reserves a formal schedule of Mr D H Richardson 9 3 4 4 matters for its approval which includes strategy and Mr P Thornton 9 management, financial structure and capital, reporting and controls, Board appointments and committees, executive All directors, with the exception of Mr D J Dugdale, have remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance attended meetings of the Board and of Board Committees of compliance.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which they were members at the relevant time unless prevented the Board objectives, the terms of reference of the Board from doing so by prior commitments.
Mr D J Dugdale has been committees, a summary of the service agreements of the unable to attend Board or Committee meetings from November executive directors and of the terms of appointment of the 2006 due to ill health.
The Chairman arranged for all directors to non-executive directors together with the respective attend the Annual General Meeting on 20 July 2006 AGM responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are 2006.
All directors attended the AGM 2006 and, with the available on the Companys website, www.
exception of Mr D J Dugdale, the Extraordinary General Meeting The biographies of the directors are set out on page 23. held on 9 January 2007.
Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings and make presentations to the Board on strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
Directors are 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 The Audit Committee: As at 1 April 2006 the Committee The Nomination Committee: As at 31 March 2007 the comprised four non-executive directors, Mr D J Dugdale, Committee comprised five non-executive directors being the Mr G E Grimstone, Mr H Mann and Mr D H Richardson Chairman chairman, Mr D J Dugdale, Mr G E Grimstone, chairman.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Mr H Mann and Mr D H Richardson.
The Chairman succeeded Finance Director, the head of internal audit, senior finance Mr D J Dugdale as chairman of the Committee with effect from management and representatives of the external auditors are 13 April 2006.
It is responsible for succession planning at Board in attendance at meetings of the Committee.
The Committee level, overseeing the selection of directors and making holds private meetings without management present with both recommendations to the Board on subsequent appointments.
the external and internal auditors.
The Committee discussed board succession arrangements and external consultants were appointed to assist in executive The Committee is responsible for exercising the full powers and director development and Chief Executive succession authority of the Board in reviewing a wide range of accounting arrangements.
The Committee considered both external and and financial reporting matters.
Since the 2006 Annual Report internal candidates before recommending that Mr M Allen the Committee has met to consider, amongst other matters: should succeed Mr J W D Hall as Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2007.
The Committee has also recommended The Companys interim and annual financial statements and to the Board that Mr S M D Oliver be proposed for re-election formal announcements on financial performance before as Chairman and that Mr A S N Murray be proposed for submission to the Board for approval: re-election as an executive director at the Annual General The Groups risk register and the adequacy of the Groups Meeting to be held on 19 July 2007 AGM 2007.
Mr S M D accounting systems and internal controls: Oliver and Mr D J Dugdale have completed one term of three Review of the Group internal audit process and the 2007 08 years since retiring by rotation in July 2004.
Mr A S N Murray internal audit plan: has completed one term of three years since being elected The provision of audit and non audit services provided by to the Board in July 2004.
In accordance with Corporate the external auditors, their audit fees for 2006 07 and a Governance requirements and having completed nine years on report from the external auditors confirming their the Board, Mr S M D Oliver will be seeking re-election annually independence and objectivity: in the future.
The Committee approves any non-executive An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external auditors: directorships taken by executive directors.
The Board believes Recommendation for re-appointment of the external that directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge from auditors: becoming a non-executive director of another listed company Review of the Groups treasury operations including net debt that will ultimately benefit the Company.
levels, facility headroom, compliance with banking covenants and level and appropriateness of hedging arrangements: The Remuneration Committee: The membership of the Developments in accounting systems including an evaluation Committee during the year is set out on page 28.
The of migration risks and the effectiveness of controls: Committee is responsible for determining, within remuneration Review of internal financial controls and authority limits: principles agreed with the Board, the salaries, bonuses and The adoption of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures pension rights of the executive directors.
Remuneration is and application of these procedures: and designed to be set at a level appropriate to the Companys The Groups compliance with the Combined Code.
circumstances, having regard to market information provided by external consultants.
The Board itself determines the Where the external auditors have provided non-audit services remuneration of non-executive directors also having regard to the Group Finance Director has obtained prior authorisation market information provided by external consultants.
The basic from the chairman of the Committee to instruct Ernst & Young fee for non-executive directors was increased to 38,000 from to carry out this work.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, non- 1 January 2007.
An explanation of how the Company has audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young principally comprised applied the principles of the Combined Code with respect to advice on tax together with a working capital review to support remuneration is outlined in the Directors remuneration report statements in the shareholders circular regarding the acquisition on pages 28 to 35. of St Hubert SAS.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Committee members bring considerable financial and There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, accounting experience to the achievement of the Committees Mr S M D Oliver, the senior independent non-executive director, objectives.
Collectively members have significant past business Mr G E Grimstone and the Chief Executive, Mr M Allen previously experience in industry and finance.
The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and, as previously advised, are available on the Companys website.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 25 Corporate governance statement continued Board balance and independence with a summary of the assessment questionnaires completed by The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be the other Board members.
It was agreed that the Chairman independent under the guidelines set out in the Combined Code.
continued to perform his role effectively.
The non-executive directors are free from any material business relationship with the Company and have not held executive Re-election positions within the Group.
None of the current non-executive The Companys articles require that one third of Board directors has served as a director of the Company for more than members retire by rotation at each AGM.
Currently there are four non-executive directors, and Mr S M D Oliver, Mr D J Dugdale and Mr A S N Murray will the Chairman, out of a total Board of nine.
The directors are of retire by rotation having each completed one term of three the opinion that an appropriate balance between executive and years since previous election to the Board.
Any shareholder who has a concern about the affairs of the Company should Mr M N Oakes was appointed to the Board as Executive contact, in the first instance, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Managing Director Dairies on 1 February 2007.
As he was or the senior independent non-executive director.
appointed during the year he will retire at the AGM 2007 in accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek election.
Performance evaluation The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual directors, The Nomination Committee has recommended that its own performance and of Board Committees.
The evaluation Mr S M D Oliver be proposed for re-election as a non-executive process is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
The Board supports this recommendation and is satisfied that his performance continues to be effective and Individual director performance is reviewed as follows: demonstrates appropriate commitment to the role, including devoting adequate time for Board and Committee meetings Each director completes a self-assessment questionnaire and any other duties.
and the Chairman then meets separately with each director in order to appraise their individual performance and The Board also supports the proposed re-election to the Board effectiveness and to identify any training requirements.
of Mr A S N Murray, Finance Director and the proposed election The Chairmans performance is appraised by the senior of Mr M N Oakes, Executive Managing Director Dairies.
independent non-executive director with input from other Board members in the form of completed assessment Accountability and audit questionnaires.
The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the executive directors with regard to their management and foreseeable future.
It is therefore appropriate to continue to operational responsibilities, in accordance with the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Companys normal performance and development review procedures.
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard the shareholders investment and Appraisals were performed for all the directors during the year the Companys assets and reviewing the effectiveness of those for their performance in 2006 07.
The Chairman reported to controls.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board has the Board on the outcome of the appraisals, in relation to the established an ongoing process, in accordance with the Boards overall effectiveness, at its meeting on 22 March 2007. guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control A summary of the completed self-assessment questionnaires amended 2006, to identify, evaluate and manage significant indicated that Board processes and frequency of meetings risks faced by the Group.
This process includes the were satisfactory, that the level of information provided was consideration of a schedule identifying and evaluating the good and that Board relationships were strong with open debate Groups significant risks and related financial, operational and on all subjects.
The Board also reviewed the performance of its compliance controls.
This process has been in place for the Board Committees and it was agreed that the practice of all year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual non-executive directors being members of all Board Committees Report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the was effective in ensuring good communication and awareness Groups system of internal control including that of its joint of all relevant issues.
venture Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the The Board met without the Chairman present on 22 March Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable, but not 2007 in order to receive a report from the senior independent absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
non-executive director on the Chairmans appraisal together 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 The main elements of the process applied in reviewing the Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to effectiveness of the systems of internal control include: the Board to ensure that the non-executive directors have a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through shareholders.
This includes communication with the shareholders an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of at the Annual General Meeting AGM, regular feedback from responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director on their The Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives meetings with major shareholders and periodic reports to the oral and written presentations to maintain control over Board on investor relations together with feedback from the strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
The executive committee is responsible for monitoring financial performance, assessing capital expenditure The principal method of communication with private proposals, agreeing media spend, senior management shareholders is through the Annual and Interim reports, the appointments and embedding risk management and AGM and through the Companys website.
A business review is controls in the Group.
The executive managing director presented by the Chairman at the AGM to facilitate shareholder of each division, in conjunction with senior management, understanding of the Groups activities.
All executive directors, operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own the Chairman, the senior independent non-executive director activities and conforms to group policies and procedures.
and the chairmen of Board Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented the AGM is posted to shareholders with the annual accounts at and approved by the Board which includes consideration least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Resolutions of the major business risks, an assessment of the likelihood are proposed for each substantial separate issue and details of of crystalisation and actions in place to mitigate these risks.
the proxy voting on each resolution announced at the AGM after Each division is required to report monthly to the Board on the results of the show of hands is known and are posted on financial performance.
Monthly financial information includes the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by business division with comparison against prior year and budget.
Each division periodically reassesses its forecast for the financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three years and includes consideration of current and likely future strategic, operational and market environment matters.
Business division reviews On a quarterly basis, each business division is required to complete a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business division management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the executive committee receive copies of all Group internal audit reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action plans.
They also receive reports from the external auditors on the conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
Relationships with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on its communication and relationship with its institutional and private shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hold meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately after the full year and interim results announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
