CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board believes that four non-executive Directors may be governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration considered to be independent under the Code, namely Messrs Report on pages 44 to 58 describe how the Board has applied the Dunstone, Balsemo, Verey and Berry.
This represents less than principles set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by the half of the Board recommended by the Code.
the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
The Code is part of the listing rules and applied to the Company throughout the year.
Messrs Hemingway, Gray and Gillespie are not regarded by the Board as independent under the Code because they have advised The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Company over many years: nor is Mr Park due to his having been the Code, except where the Board has determined that they are chairman of Northcliffe within the last five years.
Nevertheless the inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company, Board believes that these non-executive Directors make an as explained below and in the Remuneration Report.
important contribution to its deliberations and have invaluable experience of the Company, its business and its staff.
THE BOARD The Company is headed by a Board which comprises a balance INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT of seven executive Directors, including the Chairman and Chief Procedures have been established to ensure that the Board Executive, and eight non-executive Directors.
Biographical receives timely and appropriate information both for its meetings details of each of the Directors are set out on page 39.
The Board and regularly between meetings.
All Directors are offered such has been progressively refreshed in recent years with several training as is considered necessary, both on appointment and at appointments, including four new independent Directors.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys The Board meets regularly four times a year and at such other expense, if necessary.
It approves the Groups strategy which is proposed and executed by the executive Directors.
Its specific ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved The Companys Articles of Association require that a Director to the Board which is published on the Companys website at appointed by the Board must stand for election at the next www.
Thereafter all Directors are subject to re-election every three years.
The Board has chosen not to adopt The Board met four times during the 2006 07 financial year, all the additional provision in the Code that non-executive Directors, of which were regular meetings, attended by all Directors, except who have served for more than nine years, should be subject to that Mr Dunstone was unable to attend one of them and Mr Lowy annual re-election since the existing practice, which complies with was unable to attend two of them.
Individual attendance by Company law and with the Articles, works well.
Directors is set out below: The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Number of Number of Directors are available for inspection at the Registered Office of meetings meetings attended the Company during usual business hours.
THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE 4 4 BOARD EVALUATION C J F SINCLAIR 4 4 The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its J P WILLIAMS 4 4 own performance and that of its individual Directors.
It reviewed its performance by reference to the schedule of matters reserved D M M DUTTON 4 4 for it.
The evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire P M DACRE 4 4 sent to each Director, seeking their views on such matters as involvement in strategy, the structure of Board meetings, the P M FALLON 4 4 quality of communications, confidence in fellow Directors and K J BEATTY 4 4 balance of skills, and consideration of views.
The Chairman reported the consensus view on performance to the Board at its J G HEMINGWAY 4 4 meeting in September, enabling it to conclude that it had been S M GRAY 4 4 effective in the year under review.
No substantive changes to procedures were judged necessary.
I G PARK 4 4 C W DUNSTONE 4 3 The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the F P BALSEMO 4 4 Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
T S GILLESPIE 4 4 BOARD COMMITTEES D J VEREY 4 4 The Board has established Nominations, Remuneration, Audit N W BERRY 2 2 and Risk Committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects of its business.
The remits of these committees are published F P LOWY 2 0 on the Companys web site.
Details of the membership of these committees are given on page 39.
Each committee reports to the The Board has not, as required by the Code, identified a senior Board at every regular meeting.
In September and November independent non-executive Director since it believes that to 2007, the Board carried out a review of the performance of its identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, committees and concluded that they had been effective in the year.
as this Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
COMPANY SECRETARY The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman The Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is responsible for advising and the Chief Executive is understood and works well, given the the Board through the Chairman on all governance issues.
All individuals long-standing appointments, as set out on page 39.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
Hence it has not needed to be set out in writing, nor agreed by the Board.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 43 continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE control for the period up to the date of the approval of the The Nominations Committee, which was established as a separate Accounts.
The Board has not identified any significant failings or committee in 2003, comprises three Directors: the Viscount weaknesses during this review.
Rothermere its chairman, Mr Hemingway and Mr Balsemo.
Only Mr Balsemo is an independent non-executive Director, In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control whereas the Code recommends that a majority of members of the Board has considered material controls including those the Committee should be independent.
Nevertheless the Board undertaken through its committees, including financial, believes that the Committee operates well.
The Deputy Finance operational and compliance controls and risk management Director, Mr Perry, is secretary to the Committee.
The Chief systems as follows: Executive attends most meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has responsibility The Committee met four times during the year and all meetings for the review of financial risk management and of internal were attended by all serving members.
A description of the operation and activities of the Audit Committee and of the central Risk and Assurance The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the department is given below.
Board and makes recommendations to the Board on any changes.
During the year it nominated Mr Berry as an independent nonThe Risk Committee gives the Board assurance on risk executive Director.
Neither external advice nor advertising was management issues and processes.
The process for the required in this instance.
management of significant risks is undertaken by the Risk Committee and it accords with the Turnbull Guidance on internal The Committee continued to review succession planning for both control, appended to the Code.
Over the course of the past year executive and non-executive Directors.
It has also assessed the the Risk Committee have considered the key risks pertaining to all most appropriate method of evaluating Directors performance.
divisions and head office functions within the business as well as the key risks which affect the Group, including fraud risk.
A more RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS detailed description of the operation and activities of the Risk The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with Committee is given below.
In the past year, this has included meetings in London, Scotland, Canada and the US.
Operating businesses within the Group are required to confirm annually their compliance with Group accounting policies and Non-executive Directors are kept informed of the views of financial reporting guidelines.
institutional shareholders by the regular distribution of analysts reports and feedback is provided from institutional meetings.
Divisional and executive Boards regularly review relevant and timely financial information that is produced from the management All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General information systems operated across the Group.
This is supported Meeting, of which 20 working days notice is given, where they by a framework of budgets that are approved at a divisional level have the opportunity to speak to Directors.
Variance analysis of actual results versus budget and forecast is undertaken regularly throughout In the interests of transparency and to assist private shareholders, the year.
the Company posts all announcements and general presentations given to analysts and institutions on its corporate website.
The evaluation of the benefits and risks of investment Shareholders and others interested in the Group are encouraged opportunities and financing proposals is undertaken by the to use the site and to email questions which they might have to Finance Committee.
Above certain defined levels, however, the investor.
Questions to particular Directors Board must approve programmes relating to acquisition and @ should be addressed through the Secretary.
divestment proposals and capital expenditure.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK RISK COMMITTEE The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities The Risk Committee, which was established in 2000, comprises for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives Mr Sinclair, the Chief Executive, its chairman, the Viscount and profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities Rothermere, Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton, and Messrs Kass, and uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
and Cohen, the legal director and Chief Information Officer of the The risk management process consists of the identification, Groups largest subsidiary respectively.
Mr Gray provides a nonevaluation and control of risks, which could threaten the executive perspective to the review of risk management processes achievement of the Groups strategic, operational and financial within the Group, as well as providing a direct link to the Audit objectives, as well as the active management of opportunities.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The head of the Groups risk function, Mr Page, is Secretary to the The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the Committee.
divisions described at the front of the Annual Report having considerable autonomy as regards its operation and establishment The Risk Committee considers risk registers prepared, by each of of control systems.
Overseeing the divisional structure is a the divisions of the Group and by central functions, on a rotational central management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions basis, reviewing a division and central function at each meeting.
are undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying, insurance, These reports identify inherent business risks and describe the treasury, tax, pensions, and risk and assurance including controls in place to manage those risks.
The Committee considers internal audit.
the Group risk register a consolidation of divisional and central function risk registers with Group-wide risks overlaid annually.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of In addition, the Committee reviews specific risk management internal control.
This system is designed to provide reasonable issues and topics for consideration across the Group.
This year assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders the Committee has focused on the following risks: Information investment and the reliability of financial information.
Any such security and the payment card industry data security standard: system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, fraud risk: risk from acquisitions and disposals made by the assurance of these matters.
The Directors confirm that they have Group the later through a Risk Committee sponsored workshop reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal for senior management : pandemic risk: climate change: and Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 44 continued again on business continuity and disaster recovery planning.
The financial reporting issues and approves any changes to Group Committee also monitors developments in relevant legislation and accounting policies, which are set centrally.
During the year, the regulations to consider the impact these might have on the Group Committee received reports on developments in international and on its system of internal control.
financial reporting standards, Business Review regulations and on the requirements of the Transparency Directive including interim Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links management statements.
Apart from these specific responsibilities, with each of the main divisions through attendance at divisional the Committee is mandated to review all announcements of board meetings as directors of these boards.
The Committee results issued by the Group and to consider the appointment of reports to the Board at each of its meetings on the results of external auditors and to review their remuneration.
these processes, to enable the Board to determine the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk The central risk and assurance function carries out internal management more widely.
audit activities across the Group.
It operates under an internal audit charter which covers: the purposes and objectives of the AUDIT COMMITTEE Groups internal audit function: its authority and scope: The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since 1989, independence issues: standards of professional practice, comprises four non-executive Directors: Messrs Gray its chairman, performance monitoring, planning and reporting.
The department Hemingway, Park, Verey and Berry.
Mr Berry was appointed also coordinates with a number of the divisions who undertake in February and Mr Park stood down from the Committee in May.
control reviews on companies within their divisions.
Following The Code recommends that an audit committee should comprise each review, a formal report is issued to divisional management at least three members, all of whom should be independent nonwith the audit findings and managements response.
At each Audit executive Directors.
Only Messrs Verey and Berry are considered Committee meeting, the Head of Assurance, Mr Ashby, reports on to be independent under the Code.
Nevertheless the Board the internal audit activity across the Group, including progress believes that the Committee operates independently.
Members against completion of the annual assurance plan, a summary of qualifications are set out in their biographies on page 39.
The the findings of assurance reviews undertaken and a description Board is satisfied that Mr Gray, formerly senior partner of a firm of the activities and operation of the Risk Committee.
of chartered accountants, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Secretary, Mr Jennings, also a Chartered In October 2007, the Committee monitored and reviewed the Accountant, is secretary to the Committee.
resources and performance of the internal audit function, together with its plan for the forthcoming year.
It approved the The Audit Committee met four times during the year and all plan and confirmed that the internal audit function had been meetings were attended by all serving members, except that effective in the year under review.
Mr Hemingway was unable to attend one of them.
The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or The Committee has implemented the procedures set out in the operations manuals because of the diverse operations carried Smith Guidance to the Code which are within its control.
It reviews out by its divisions.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their the Groups policy on whistle blowing.
Procedures exist to monitor own manuals.
A number of the divisions also undertake regular the independence of the external auditors and include a policy control review work as part of their control process.
on employment of former audit principals.
There is also a policy on the provision of non-audit services with which the Groups Euromoney Institutional Investor plc is subject to the requirements head office and each division complies.
The choice of firm is of the Code in its own right.
As disclosed in its latest annual normally determined on the basis of professional expertise and report, it has in place its own system of internal control and risk competitiveness.
The Group may engage the external auditors management processes which forms part of the Groups overall to perform audit-related work, accountancy advice and corporate framework of control.
The joint ventures and associates of the tax services.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on Group are not included in the Groups system of internal control their merits and are put out to tender where the amounts in described above.
The external auditors are excluded from the following areas: where they are auditing their own work: On behalf of the Board where a mutuality of interest is created: or where the external auditor would be put in the role of advocate for the Company.
N D JENNINGS, FCA Secretary Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte in 20th November, 2007 2007 amounted to 2.9 million, compared to 7.6 million the previous year, reflecting the continuing extent of corporate tax advice given and Deloittes continued involvement as lead consultant on Northcliffe Medias cost reduction project.
In the prior year, it also undertook due diligence work as part of the strategic review of that business.
In October 2007, the Audit Committee carried out an annual review of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and concluded that it did not need to recommend to the Board any changes to its remit or operations.
In November 2007, the Board conducted its own review of the Committees performance and agreed that the Committee had been effective in the year under review.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has responsibility for the review of financial risk management and of internal financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to the quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews a summary of letters to management prepared by the Groups external auditors following their audit procedures, considers significant Daily Mail and General Trust plc
