Corporate governance A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management c Nomination Committee is presented at each of the four meetings, which highlights any The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the December Chairman, Jean-Nol Labroue, Peter Wilson, Andrew Robb, Michel meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submits the Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The Committee would be chaired by internal audit plans for the coming year.
the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the The external auditors also present their audit plans at the June Chairmanship of the Company.
meeting and at the March meeting there is a detailed review of the management letter covering the auditors findings in respect The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the of the prior financial year.
authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: Group companies are, from time to time, required to make presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its identification, To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, management and control.
size and composition and make recommendations to the Board As a matter of routine, the Committee is presented with information with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
on material litigation involving Group companies.
Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the The Committee reviews all financial statements prior to their Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify publication.
and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make for both Board and senior executive positions.
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Setting policy for granting of service agreements including external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend mitigation policy.
the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into account.
These include: Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and at Board and the quality of advice given.
Although it does not have precise rules The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to and industry.
enter into a dialogue with investors and meetings take place frequently.
The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is tight deadlines.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
Road substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee of the full year and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face to on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
The slide requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence presentations made to representatives of the investment community from the Company.
following the announcement of the full year and interim results are available on-line at www.
com as is a web cast of the b Remuneration Committee results presentations.
The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
Its of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there remuneration and terms of service of the Executive Directors are be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual his attention.
contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to Directors remuneration is described in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 29 to 37.
26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 The principal communication with private investors is through the Annual The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: report, the Interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate greater awareness Risk assessment: of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its medium questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as at the meeting and meet the Directors informally after the meeting.
part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
for, against and abstention proxy votes cast in respect of each The operating companies make presentations on risk to their resolution proposed at the meeting are counted and announced after audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
Notice of the Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board Annual General Meeting is posted to shareholders with the Annual report on the risks and weaknesses facing the businesses.
at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part Financial and other information including the terms of reference for of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and the Board and Board committees are available from the Companys re-forecasting cycles.
registered office and are also available on the Companys website The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for www.
considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over Accountability: risk management and internal control these risks biannually.
This includes risks arising from social, It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should present environmental and ethical matters.
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Control environment and control activities: statement of Directors responsibilities on page 38, which includes a The Group consists of a number of operating companies each statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as with its own management and control structures.
a going concern, and to the report of the auditors on page 39, which The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and at an appropriate level.
understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies to be presented by law.
include not only internal controls but also other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments, Internal control although the risk assessment process does not cover franchisees.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The operating companies work within a framework of policies control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a review and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, has taken place during the year.
Such a system is designed to manage and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the physical and data security.
The Group has also established a key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control in the Information and communication: Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by including monthly performance review for each major business the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the ethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range Committee guidance 2005. of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 27 Corporate governance Monitoring: Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for The effective application of internal control within the Group is monitored the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their by the following: business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identified include strategic risk, announcements relating to the financial performance: external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations, reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key control and risk management systems including reports from internal management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are audit on material control weaknesses.
designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each reviews risk management systems: and businesss significant identified risks.
Where appropriate the risk monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function management process will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of The business head of each major operating company, who: this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of the business: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group: and certifies with the finance director for the operating company that all necessary information has been provided to the auditors.
The internal audit and risk management function, which: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss audit committee: ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: provides the Board with assurance on the control environment across the Group: ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls: monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: and provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances on the control environment.
28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07
