37 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance The Board is collectively accountable to its shareholders for Board of Directors good corporate governance and all Directors are responsible Composition of the Board for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
Throughout the year to June 2006 there were four independent non-executive Directors compared to the non-executive Chairman The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards and two executive Directors.
Gill Rider and Warren East were of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, appointed non-executive Directors on 22 June 2006 and 9 January controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue 2007 respectively.
Both are considered to be independent nonGroup is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with executive Directors.
The Board has concluded that its composition the required standards of accountability and probity.
throughout the year was and remains appropriately balanced.
The Companys corporate governance arrangements are There is a clear division between the management of the Board described in the following sections: and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the Companys business.
However no individual or small group can Corporate Governance Report page 37 dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Directors Profiles page 32 Executive are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is Remuneration Report page 42 primarily responsible for the working of the Board.
The Chief Directors Report page 34 Executive is responsible for running the business and Risks and Risk Management page 21 implementing Board strategy and policy.
Corporate Responsibility page 28 Directors Responsibility Statement page 34 The Directors biographies appear on pages 32 and 33.
The Shareholders Information page 95 Boards policy is that the Chairman and executive Directors should Notice of Annual General Meeting page 36 accept appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors Corporate Governance Framework must seek the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the The Companys corporate governance procedures, which are Board before accepting additional commitments that may affect approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, the time they devote to their role.
the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the The existing commitments of Directors appear on pages 32 and 33 jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and nonand the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors of corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined the Company.
Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in March 2007.
Succession Planning The Board has in place an orderly process to refresh the The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of composition of the Board regularly without compromising its Conduct Code of Conduct which defines the Companys continued effectiveness, as demonstrated by the appointment of business principles and which was updated in June 2005.
Gill Rider and Warren East.
As well as assessing the skills profile, This is discussed further in the Corporate Responsibility Report type and number of non-executive Directors required to enhance on page 28.
These documents are set out on the Companys the Boards composition, the Company follows a rigorous internal website www.
com talent review process which is used in planning executive Director and senior management succession.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Objectives of the Board evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, The Board reviewed its objectives during 2006 2007 and operational and compliance controls and risk management confirmed them as: systems.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: Accounts.
The Boards governance policies include a process for the Board to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as internal control and risk management systems, and the Board has the foundation of its relationship with stakeholders: and conducted such a review during the year.
Details are set out on pages 21 to 24.
This does not extend to associated companies or building long term success through innovation, quality joint ventures such as Camelot Group plc where we do not have and sound management.
Role and Operation of the Board Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate The Boards core procedures are: Governance In the year to 31 March 2007 the Company has complied set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the and Directors: Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code as detailed in this Report, and which made minor the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control changes to the Combined Code 2003. procedures reviewed and revised annually: and monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination Committee.
38 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance continued The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce circulated as soon as possible thereafter.
The Board reviews its control of the Group.
These include: progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and its Committee meetings each month.
establishing Committees of the Board and their terms of reference: There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters between Board meetings.
determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those of the Chairman and Chief Executive: All Directors can request additional information from management at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and approving internal control processes: services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the in conjunction with the Audit Committee approving appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
the announcement of interim and final results: Board Evaluation and Effectiveness Review approving any interim dividend and recommending The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit the final dividend to shareholders: Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The approving the annual report, remuneration report process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on and financial statements: process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and approving the Groups strategy: implementation of any issues identified during the previous review or which became relevant during the year.
approving the Groups annual budget: The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions approving significant matters relating to capital expenditure, with each Director or Committee member based on the responses acquisitions and disposals or joint ventures by any and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the Board Group Company: or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
The senior independent non-executive Director was approving changes to the capital structure of the Company or responsible for appraising the Chairmans performance in meetings other matters relevant to its status as a listed Company: and or discussions with the non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also being informed about and taking any necessary decision on met in the absence of the executive Directors.
The results were any matter which would have a material effect on the Companys discussed by the Board or individual Committees which then financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation.
produced an implementation plan to address any issues raised.
The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief The chairman of the Audit Committee is also responsible for Executive, except where certain matters are reserved to it or to the ensuring that the effectiveness of the external audit process and Committees of the Board.
The Chief Executive in turn delegates internal audit function is reviewed following a similar procedure.
responsibility to senior executives, in particular to divisional The Audit Committee agreed that the evaluation of the external managing directors.
Operational control is exercised by the audit process should be performed when KPMG Audit Plc has Operating Board which functions as a board of directors.
Finance Directors role and responsibilities are also clearly defined.
As the result of the review of 2006 2007 the Board will devote A matrix of delegated authorities is reviewed and approved by the more time to stategic issues, customer feedback and progress Board annually.
The Board provides leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
These are required to identify and manage the risks and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the processes and controls are set out below.
The Board reviews matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports or presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes are 39 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Details of Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings number of sites.
Directors are briefed, where appropriate, by the The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee Companys external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: or market practice, as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses throughout the year.
In particular this year the Board Directors Attendance 2006 2007 Audit Remuneration Nomination received specific briefing on the implementation of the Companies Board Committee Committee Committee Act 2006 and changes made to the Disclosure and Transparancy Number of Rules in January 2007.
Directors, especially Committee chairmen, meetings held 15 3 9 4 have the opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions.
Dr P M G Nolan 14 3 8 4 Mr K H Hodgkinson 13 3 9 4 At least once a year the Board generally visits an operational site Mr M M Jeffries 14 3 9 4 Gateshead this year and Directors are encouraged to visit other Mr N K Brookes Chairman 15 4 4 sites and staff.
The Company Secretary in conjunction with the MrSA King 15 Chairman ensures that there is proper communication between the Mr L M Quinn Chief Executive 15 4 Board and its Committees and senior management and that nonSir Jeremy Greenstock 12 9 4 executive Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman Ms G Rider reviews and the Company Secretary facilitates induction and other appointed 22 June 2006 9 1 5 professional development as required.
Mr D W A East appointed 9 January 2007 4 Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 28 September 2006.
Appointed to Audit and Remuneration Committees 27 July 2006. the year.
Appointed to Audit Committee 22 February 2007.
Appointments Role of Non-Executive Directors All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the least every three years.
New Directors are subject to election by Board to be independent, have an appropriate range of business, shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, as are financial and international experience which is relevant to the directors whose role has changed since their previous election or Companys activities.
None of the non-executive Directors holds who are subject to particular conditions, such as Nicholas Brookes a material shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas Brookes ceased who, since March 2006, is required to submit himself for re-election to be independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 as annually after serving nine years on the Board.
Non-executive Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years with the contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions expectation of a further three years subject to satisfactory were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
Additionally, any non-executive Director who has completed two three year terms is required to submit himself for reMichael Jeffries succeeded Nicholas Brookes as the Companys election annually thereafter.
Keith Hodgkinson will offer himself for senior independent non-executive Director and shareholders may re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board may contact him if they feel their concerns are not being addressed invite a non-executive Director to serve a third three year term after through normal channels.
He is also responsible for reviewing the a detailed review at the end of the second term.
Non-executive performance of the Chairman.
Keith Hodgkinson will succeed Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Michael Jeffries as senior independent non-executive Director Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting, when he resigns as a non-executive Director with effect from the together with executive Directors service contracts.
end of the Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment, and annually, and have done so this year, The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them to process, considers the performance of each of the Directors properly discharge their duties.
In the very few instances when a standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting to be Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee fully satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated meetings, he has made known his views on pertinent matters to continued commitment to the role.
The Board strongly supports the Board.
their reelection and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Induction and Training All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, Committees of the Board for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including key General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen financial data, business, social and environmental risks to the and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
The Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as the role terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, of the Board and individual Committees, and the Companys Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Companys corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They website and are also available on request.
Membership of these are advised on the duties and obligations of directors of a listed Committees is given in the Directors biographies on pages 32 and company.
Site visits and meetings with senior management are 33.
Further details of Committees are given below.
Any newly appointed Director, who has not previously been a director of a listed company is required to attend Nomination Committee an external course covering such duties and responsibilities.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as During the year Gill Rider and Warren East had an induction necessary and makes recommendations to the Boardwith regard to programme covering strategy, corporate governance and any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or changes remuneration and HR issues with the executive Directors, the that are considered necessary.
The Committee also reviews the Company Secretary and other senior staff, as well as visiting a 40 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance continued time commitment required of non-executive Directors at least once Risk Management a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment and Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group removal of Directors.
The Committee has the power to employ the are set out on pages 21 to 24. services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
It generally retains appropriate executive Audit Committee of the Board search consultants, having prepared a job specification for the All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive particular role to be filled.
The principal activity of the Committee Directors.
The Board considers that at least one member of the Audit during 2006 2007 has been to conduct a search for two new nonCommittee, namely the Committee Chairman, has sufficient recent executive Directors using The Zygos Partnership.
and relevant financial experience for it to discharge its functions effectively.
The external auditor, Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance The Committee consists of four independent non-executive Director, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Directors together with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Controller and Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The internal auditor and Remuneration Committee KPMG Audit Plc each meet the Committee without executive Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in July Directors or employees of the Company being present.
Details of the Committee and of the remuneration policy can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
Nicholas The Committee receives comprehensive reports from senior Brookes was appointed in September 2006 in anticipation of the management and the internal and external auditors.
Its key changes to the Combined Code 2006. responsibilities are to: General Business Committee approve and review the appointment of the external auditor The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters which it did so during the year: arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent nonexecutive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration monitor the effectiveness of and receive regular reports from the or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than internal audit function: for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
ensure the adequacy of the systems and standards of internal Risk Committee financial control within the Group: and The Committee chaired by the Company Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least four times a year.
Other members review reports on actions taken to address financial risk identified include the Chief Executive, Finance Director, heads of key by management and or the internal audit process.
functions and representatives from each division.
Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting.
During the year principal activities of the Committee included: The core responsibilities are to: recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditor: identify and evaluate key risks excluding matters relating to reviewing the interim and full year financial results: financial reporting and systems which are the remit of the Audit Committee : reviewing and approving the audit plans for the following year for the external and internal auditors: assist the Board by providing a framework for managing risk throughout the Company: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk management to the Board including insurance, health and safety, reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: fire, environment, business continuity, security and legal: reviewing and approving the external auditors audit fees and ensure any corrective actions are taken: letter of engagement: and promote awareness of risk management: reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, details of which are set out on page 28. review the management processes and systems to monitor and manage key risks: and Internal Audit The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial investigate and manage such matters as the Audit Committee control systems through reports received from the Group internal audit may from time to time request.
The internal audit function reviews internal financial controls in all key activities of the Group, typically over a three The Committee is assisted by other Group-wide committees which year cycle.
It acts as a service to businesses by assisting with the deal with managing specific areas of risk such as: continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
There is a system of internal control reviews which includes a self-assessment programme Environmental, Health and Safety Steering Group: covering both financial and IT controls.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendationsand these are followed up to ensure that Group Security Committee: and satisfactory control is maintained.
The internal audit programme is centrally co-ordinated.
This is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, Human Resources.
together with reports from the external auditors on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
41 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 During the year the Company continued to raise the profile of good Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide internal financial controls.
A training programme aimed at increasing the services, as a general principle all must be subject to competitive awareness and early detection of fraud was implemented and this will be tender.
The Finance Director determines how this applies.
Non-audit cascaded down the organisation in specific risk areas.
As part of this related services may include: programme businesses completed fraud risk profiling for key accounting processes.
A number of unannounced special audits was carried out work related to disposals by the external auditors because during the year to test the internal financial control processes.
of their knowledge of the business concerned: and External Auditors corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case During the year KPMG Audit Plc was appointed external auditor to basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
the Company and prior to its appointment the firm performed certain internal audit services.
Following the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the as the Companys external auditor the Company has appointed Ernst Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related & Young to perform the internal audit services previoulsy undertaken services such as acquisition work where the selection criteria include by KPMG Audit Plc.
The Directors agreed to a period of overlap for detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
During the remainder of the financial year by KPMG Audit Plc for internal and 2006 2007 the amount of consulting related non-audit fees paid to external services to the Company having received assurances from KPMG Audit Plc was 0.2m and was principally related to KPMG Audit Plc that there would be sufficient checks and procurement and supply chain management advisory work.
procedures in place to ensure that there was no conflict of interest.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their Independence of Auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report to The Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services the the Audit Committee on how they comply with the professional and external auditor is either allowed to or prohibited from performing regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their on behalf of the Group and the relevant procedures to be followed independence.
Thus key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit by the Group.
team rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm who The procedures relate to: may be providing services to fide La Rue.
selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee: Relationship with Shareholders The Company places a high priority on communications with and being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor accountability to shareholders.
A general interim statement and a fully and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business : audited annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders and posted on the Companys website as are presentations to institutional agreeing a policy on the employment of former employees of investors.
Announcements are also regularly made by Regulatory News the auditor, then monitoring the implementation of this policy: Service to the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive Director are available to meet key commissioning non-audit work: and shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
Nicholas Brookes met a key shareholder during the year and circumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for communicated its views to the Board.
incumbent auditors to be allowed to, or prohibited from, providing non-audit work.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working days fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders can also vote and services from external sources are: appoint proxies electronically.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman announces details of proxy voting after each item of Audit-related services: this covers regulatory and statutory business.
Proxy votes are also available to shareholders at the Annual reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other General Meeting and on the Companys website.
In addition to the annual appointment of auditors by the provides a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the auditors also present.
Shareholders may question the Board on these and other performance, the extent to which the auditors keep the Audit matters relating to the Groups business.
Directors also have an Committee and management of the Company informed about opportunity to meet shareholders informally after the meeting.
The material issues affecting the Company and any significant share register is actively monitored.
developments in accounting policies and standards which may have a material effect on the Companysfinancial position.
During the year meetings take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts and presentations are made at the time of Non-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly major events.
The views of shareholders and analysts and brokers reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking to reports are reported to the Board and from time to time a survey of balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
institutional shareholders views is carried out by an external consultant.
Incumbent auditors are prohibited from performing certain non audit By order of the Board related services including remuneration consultancy and advice, the design, development or implementation of financial information or internal control systems.
Certain other non-audit services interrelate closely with the auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbant auditors may possess of the particular area of the business Louise Fluker or issue.
Therefore a total ban on use of incumbent auditors might lead Company Secretary to loss of business knowledge that could adversely affect audit quality.
