CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code The Company has, since 17 April 2007, been fully compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code 2003 on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The only provision with which it did not comply before that date was the requirement, in Code Provision A.
3.2, that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
On 17 April 2007 Guido Padovano resigned as a non-executive director to devote more time to his other business interests as a managing director of the Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity Division.
Excluding the Chairman there are now five independent non-executive and five other directors on the board.
As required under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the following section sets out how the Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code 2003 on Corporate Governance.
The board The board is chaired by John Lovering, who has been Chairman of the Group since December 2003.
There are two other non-executive directors who do not fall within the definition of independence set out in the Combined Code because of the shareholdings that they represent, namely Philippe Costeletos who is a partner of Texas Pacific Group Limited and Jonathan Feuer who is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners.
The executive directors are Rob Templeman Chief Executive, Chris Woodhouse Finance Director and Michael Sharp Chief Operating Officer.
There are five independent non-executive directors: Richard Gillingwater, Senior Independent Director who chairs the Remuneration Committee, Adam Crozier, Peter Long, Dennis Millard who chairs the Audit Committee and Paul Pindar who chairs the Nomination Committee.
None of the independent non-executive directors have any relationship or involvement with the Company which could or could appear to affect their independence of judgement.
They are not also directors of the same company as any other directors, were not previously employed by the Company and do not participate in any Company bonus, share option or pension scheme.
Board meetings are attended, in addition to the directors, by Nigel Palmer Retail Operations Director, Nikki Zamblera Human Resources Director and by the Company Secretary.
The board considers at each of its meetings reports which are circulated in advance of the meeting from the executive directors on major operational matters.
Reports are also made by specialists on general and Company business areas to update and refresh the skills and knowledge of the board.
It also schedules reports from other executives and external advisers on key business areas: in 2006 07 matters covered by such reports included marketing and PR, the supply chain and distribution, information systems, succession planning and the advertising programme.
In addition the board holds a separate strategy meeting each year: in 2006 07 this was held over a full day and took place at the Debenhams store in Reading.
The board also considers and approves, where appropriate, major Company decisions, as set out in the formal schedule of matters reserved to it, such as approval of the operating plan and any material changes, approval of the annual and interim reports of the Company and all preliminary announcements of results, approval of the dividend policy, determination of the interim dividend and the recommendation subject to the approval of shareholders in general meeting of the final dividend and approval of any new stores.
Operational decisions are delegated to the Companys management.
There were seven meetings of the board, including the full day strategy meeting, during the year.
All directors attended all meetings except that Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer, Guido Padovano, Richard Gillingwater and Peter Long did not attend one meeting and Paul Pindar two meetings due to other commitments.
The division of responsibilities between John Lovering and Rob Templeman, the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively, is clearly established based on the principle of the Chairmans responsibility for the effective running of the board and the Chief Executives responsibility for the operation of the business.
Their division of responsibilities is set out in writing and has been agreed by the board.
During the year an evaluation was carried out of the board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the individual directors.
At the same time the Company also took the opportunity to evaluate the external and internal auditors.
Debenhams implemented its evaluation process through the circulation of a number of questionnaires, which were prepared so as to encompass the key responsibilities and attributes required of the evaluated group or individual, taking into account inter alia the guidance in the Combined Code 2003 on Corporate Governance.
The directors and others completed the questionnaires and the results of the evaluations were analysed in detail and considered by the Chairman, senior independent non-executive director, HR Director and then by all the non-executive directors at a meeting in early September 2007.
The independent non-executive directors also met without the Chairman present during the year.
The results of the evaluation process have been communicated to the board, including the chairmen of the various committees.
Actions have been taken in the light of matters identified.
For example, the board and the Audit Committee both now give on a more regular basis consideration to working practices in the supply chain: the Audit Committee agenda includes business continuity issues and it has also considered the means by which Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 37 Section 3 Management and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Company publicises, enforces and monitors its codes of conduct, and a greater focus at board meetings is given to competitive analysis of pricing product strategies.
In terms of the composition of board committees, it was considered important that the Chairman of the Nomination Committee should also be a member of the Remuneration Committee and so Paul Pindar has joined the Remuneration Committee and relinquished his membership of the Audit Committee on 18 October 2007.
Nomination Committee Paul Pindar chairs the Nomination Committee.
The other members are Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and Dennis Millard.
Its main obligation is to lead the process for board appointments and make recommendations to the board.
As part of this role the Committee considers on a regular basis the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys website at www.
Prior to the admission of the Company to listing in May 2006 an external search consultancy carried out a recruitment process, which resulted in the appointment of five new independent non-executive directors.
The brief for that consultancy required that it consider the balance of skills and experience required for the board.
That assessment has also been carried out, internally, in 2007 through a board and board committee evaluation process referred to above in the report on the board which amongst other things considered whether the composition of the board was appropriate, the performance of the board, the issues on which it focuses, and whether the roles and responsibilities of board members were clearly defined.
The Committee is satisfied that it has the appropriate balance on the board: their skills and experience are broad and diverse, encompassing substantial retail expertise amongst the Chairman and executive team, and diverse skills in running other successful companies amongst the non-executive directors.
The Committee has met on three occasions, on 24 August 2006, 8 June 2007 and 6 September 2007.
In addition to the matters set out above, subjects covered at those meetings included considering the quality of senior management and succession planning, reviewing its terms of reference and recommending directors re-election.
All members of the Committee attended all the meetings.
Guido Padovano resigned from the board on 17 April 2007.
The Committee gave consideration to whether Mr Padovano should be replaced as a director and concluded, as the board still includes two directors, Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer, who represent major shareholders and who give continuity with the private ownership period, that he should not be replaced.
The Committee has agreed that Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Rob Templeman should retire by rotation at this years AGM and are properly qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution to the board and the Company.
Relations with shareholders The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
Two of the largest shareholders, TPG and CVC, are represented on the board, by Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are always available to major shareholders.
Indeed Richard Gillingwater met with a number of shareholders in March and April of this year to discuss incentive matters.
Formal trading updates were given to the market on six occasions in 2006 07, following the preliminary announcement of the full year results in October 2006 and the interim results in April 2007, at the AGM in December 2006, in January 2007 by a Christmas trading announcement, and at trading updates given shortly after the end of the full year or half year in September 2006 and March 2007 respectively.
Following each of these announcements a conference call took place with shareholders and analysts and after the full year and interim results a presentation was made to the retail sector analysts.
Analysts or brokers briefings are circulated to the board.
A programme of meetings and conference calls are also organised at appropriate times during the year at which the Chief Executive and Finance Director comment on Company performance and respond to any issues raised by investors.
This programme included, after the full year and interim results announcements, meetings with investors in London, Boston and New York.
In addition Debenhams hosted a meeting for retail analysts, including a visit to Staines, a non-modernised store, and the refurbished store at Uxbridge, on 30 May 2007.
At the AGM in December the chairman made a presentation on the Companys financial performance and major initiatives such as new stores, international expansion, the Roches Stores acquisition and the growth of the internet business.
In recognition of the importance of its dialogue with shareholders the Company appointed Lisa Williams as Head of Investor Relations in August 2007.
She previously held similar positions at Rentokil Initial Plc and the Cookson Group.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 38 Section 3 Management and governance Audit Committee Dennis Millard chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other members are Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater and Peter Long.
All members of the Committee have business and financial expertise.
The Chairman is a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which have been published on www.
The Committee met on three occasions during the year: all the members of the Committee attended all meetings except that Peter Long could not attend one meeting and Paul Pindar, who relinquished his membership of the Committee on 18 October 2007, was unable to attend two meetings due to other commitments.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Head of Risk Management, the external auditors, and the Treasurer for the presentation of his report.
The Committee met without the presence of management with both the external and internal auditors during the year.
After each meeting the Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed and raises with the appropriate executive director any issue of concern.
The minutes of the meetings are circulated to all directors.
There is a detailed agenda for each meeting.
The broad structure of the Audit Committees agenda last year was as follows: In October 2006 the Committee considered the external auditors performance and independence and their re-appointment, reviewed the annual financial statements, key accounting policies, areas of judgement and quality of earnings, the auditors report on the year end audit and managements responses to the issues raised.
In April 2007 the Committee reviewed the interim financial statements, accounting policies, judgements, quality of earnings and the interim audit report and responses.
In July 2007 the internal audit programme for the following year was agreed, based on the risk assessment process detailed below.
In addition the external audit strategy and scope for the forthcoming audit was approved.
At each meeting a report was also made to the Committee by the internal auditors, based on the audit plan agreed in the previous July, on control issues and significant findings.
Reports on treasury, litigation and health and safety were also made to each meeting.
Internal control The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business.
The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This report sets out how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls and how the Audit Committee reviewed during the year the effectiveness of that framework.
In reviewing its risk management and internal control procedures, the Company has considered the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
A control environment review was carried out across the business in April 2007, in which function heads set out their business objectives, risks to their achievement and controls to mitigate those risks.
Each department received a copy of its control review.
Risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of occurrence.
A new electronic process facilitated both the completion of the control environment review and its collation into a ranking of risk, set out in risk maps and the risk register.
The findings from the control environment review were presented to the Audit Committee in July of this year and the internal audit plan was derived from this ranking in conjunction with cyclical requirements for head office where all areas are audited at least once every three years and stores at least every two years.
After risks have been identified and assessed a written report on the specific area is sent to each function head and their executive director.
Following communication in this way the next stage of the risk process is control and risk management activities, including if possible risk transfer through a third party contract, financing the risk through insurance, or consideration by the function head of re-engineering the process.
Finally the risks that have been identified are monitored, through the audit programme including computer assisted auditing techniques designed to highlight irregular patterns and trends, through internal procedures such as stock takes and stock file counts, through prevention tools such as CCTV and a point-of-sale fraud prevention system, and through management controls.
Training and support is provided by the risk management team, and the risk management website provides best practice guidelines and business policies for risk management.
The internal audit team created in the year a high and serious risk monitor so that such risks and their controls are reviewed on the most frequent basis.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 39 Section 3 Management and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal audit forms part of the risk management department, which also comprises the anti-fraud department, insurance and profit protection.
In this way the Company maintains a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management and an operational focus to internal audit.
The risk management team was strengthened during the year through the recruitment of two additional internal auditors and an additional profit protection manager.
In addition to the audit programme there are a number of processes to test the Companys financial information and controls.
An operating plan is prepared in August of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios.
Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are also prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast.
A treasury report is made to each meeting of the board, covering matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting under the banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash flow and cash flow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties.
Whistle blowing All employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct senior employees confirm compliance in writing.
This sets out the ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
There are two main routes available to encourage employees at all levels within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices.
The first, employee guidelines to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or if still concerned to call HR Connect the central human resources team directly.
Alternatively there is a confidential reporting line, where employees can speak to the Debenhams anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he she should contact the Company Secretary or the Head of Risk Management directly.
Contact details are given for all these routes.
The Companys policy on whistle blowing and these methods of raising issues of concern were specifically communicated to all employees in May 2007 and are published on the intranet.
Auditor independence In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established.
This covers matters such as that auditors and their staff have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The objective of the Audit Committees policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
An independent report was produced by the central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information was reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The Audit Committee also obtained at the meeting in July 2007 information from the auditors about its policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant rotation requirements.
26,900 was paid by the Company to  for non-audit services which related to a review of inter-company loans and distributable reserves.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 24,000.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 40 Section 3 Management and governance
