Corporate governance report This report contains a summary of how the Board BOARD TRAINING AND EVALUATION has complied with the principles set out in the On appointment each director receives an induction Financial Reporting Councils FRC Combined programme into the Group together with guidance on Code on Corporate Governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2007 the During the period under review, the performance of the Company has been in compliance with the Code executive directors has been evaluated using the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC performance management system implemented Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the throughout the Group.
An evaluation of the effectiveness exception that: of the Board and its principal committees was Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a member of the undertaken during September 2007.
The non-executive Remuneration Committee in September 2004 and is not directors, led by Rupert Barclay, the senior independent considered to be independent due to his executive role director, reviewed the leadership and performance of the at VenFin Limited.
Peter Liddiard was appointed as a Chairman.
The assessment concluded that the structure member of the Audit Committee in September 2007 and of the Board and its committees was robust and that the is also not considered to be independent due to his contributions and the time commitments of the executive role at VenFin Limited.
members satisfied the present needs of the business.
The Board considered the implications of the roles of In terms of the Articles of Association each director shall both Dillie Malherbe and Peter Liddiard at VenFin Limited retire and may be available for re-election in the third and concluded that this would not compromise the calendar year following the year in which he or she was independence of their input to these committees.
As at elected or last re-elected by the Company.
30 September 2007 VenFin Limited held 18.2% of the Companys share capital.
BOARD OPERATION The Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Financial Officers Operating Review summarise the conduct of the business of the Group, and decides upon Groups performance and financial position.
considers these reviews, along with the Chairmans Letter and the Directors Report, to reflect, with A corporate governance framework in the form of an reasonable accuracy, the Groups position and authorities matrix has been approved by the Board prospects.
The Directors responsibility for the financial defining the roles and responsibilities of the constituent statements is described on page 47. elements of the Group's management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Group's activities so as to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board including the Chairman comprises five executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board include: The Board considers all non-executive directors, with Approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget: the exception of Dillie Malherbe and Peter Liddiard, to be Review of Group performance: independent.
Rupert Barclay holds the position of senior independent non-executive director.
Approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material contracts, material acquisitions and A table setting out members of the Board during the developments: period can be found on page 32.
Maintaining and monitoring the Group's system of Biographical details for the current directors can be internal control and risk management: found on pages 28 and 29.
Changes relating to the Company's capital structure The Board met five times during the past year.
A table and the Memorandum and Articles of Association: indicating attendance by directors at Board and Recommendation of dividends: Committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
Communication with shareholders, including The non-executive directors have met separately three approval of all circulars, prospectuses and major times during the year, and in addition communicate on a regular basis.
public announcements: 34 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 The terms of reference of Board committees: independent accounting practice.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and the Chairman has The appointment, removal and remuneration of met independently with the external auditors three directors and the Company Secretary: times during the year.
In addition the Audit Committee Changes to retirement benefit schemes, employee has met once with only management and once with share plans and long term incentive programmes: only the external auditors present.
The Groups external Approval of the interim statement and annual report and internal auditors attend the meetings and have and accounts including the review of critical direct access to the Audit Committee to report the accounting policies and accounting judgements and findings of the external and internal audit work, as well an assessment of the Company's position and as any matters of concern.
The Chief Financial Officer prospects : and attends the meetings at the request of the Audit The appointment of the external auditors.
The report of the Audit Committee is contained on page 38.
Financial reporting is performed according to a strict schedule.
The non-executive directors are provided Remuneration Committee with information to enable them to reach independent Wendy Lucas-Bull Chairperson conclusions on the matters brought to their attention Dillie Malherbe at Board meetings.
The Board ensures that each Rory Scott director is provided with appropriate and timely Gordon Waddell retired June 2007 information in order to exercise his or her judgement.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three All directors are able to obtain independent non-executive directors, two of whom are independent.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
They The Remuneration Committee met four times in the year also have access to the services and advice of the under review.
It operates within defined terms of Company Secretary.
reference, and recommends to the Board the remuneration policies for the Groups directors and BOARD COMMITTEES senior executives.
No director is involved in determining The Board has established four committees to which it his own remuneration.
The report of the Remuneration has delegated specific responsibility.
All committees Committee is contained on pages 41 to 46. operate within written terms of reference approved by Nomination Committee the Board which are available on request from the Jeremy Ord Chairman Company Secretary and may be viewed on the Gordon Waddell retired June 2007 Company's website www.
com Dorian Wharton-Hood Executive Committee The Committee met twice during the year under The Executive Committee, which meets fortnightly, has review.
The Nomination Committee reviews the responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business composition of the Board and makes recommendations and the execution of the Groups strategy.
It is chaired to the Board regarding the appointment of new by Brett Dawson.
The other executive directors, with the directors.
It also satisfies itself that succession plans exception of Jeremy Ord, are also members.
The are in place for the Board and senior management members of the Executive Committee are set out on of the Group, and reviews the performance of page 27. non-executive directors.
Audit Committee The Nomination Committee considered the expertise and knowledge Leslie Bergman has and recommended Rory Scott Chairman his appointment to the Board as an independent nonRupert Barclay executive director.
The Nomination Committee did not Peter Liddiard appointed September 2007 consider it necessary to utilise an external consultant Gordon Waddell retired June 2007 regarding this appointment.
Derek Irish The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, two of whom are independent, and Derek Irish, a chartered accountant and a senior partner in an Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 35 Corporate governance report continued Internal controls are designed to manage rather than COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS eliminate risks of failure to achieve business objectives, The Group is committed to honest, open and regular and provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance communication with all stakeholders on both financial against material misstatement or loss.
The internal audit and non-financial matters.
function is a structured review of internal controls based The Group reports its half year and full year results on risk assessment.
Effective communication with The Audit Committee regularly reviews the work plan institutional investors, analysts and the media is and key findings of the internal and external audit established throughout the period through presentations process and monitors developments to ensure that by executives and senior management.
Meetings are areas of weakness are addressed.
Responsibility for held to update the market on the Groups strategies, implementing controls and improvements lies with operations and performance.
Executive and senior business unit or regional level management.
The Group management attend these meetings on a regular basis.
Risk Committee provides an advisory function to the All briefings and meetings are conducted in line with the Board and Audit Committee on all matters concerning Groups written guidelines to ensure control over pricerisk and internal control, and the Audit Committee has sensitive information and equality of disclosure.
delegated the day-to-day responsibility for review of the The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to Group Risk Register to this Committee and to the Group communicate directly with shareholders.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees The processes above have been in place for the year are available at the meetings to answer questions from under review up to the date of approval of the annual shareholders.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is report and accounts.
The Audit Committee and the enclosed within this Annual Report.
Separate resolutions Board regularly review the processes in place and are are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The satisfied that the system of Internal Control is in line and Company will publish on its corporate website details of in accord with the guidance as set out in Internal proxy votes together with a summary of the business Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code conducted at the Annual General Meeting.
issued by the FRC in October 2005.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group posted on the FINANCIAL REPORTING corporate website www.
com The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for determining Group financial policy and, with the Chief Executive RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL Officer, for the execution thereof.
The Chief Executive CONTROL Officer is also responsible for the integrity of forecast Ultimate responsibility for Risk Management and Internal information upon which executive decisions are based.
Control lies with the Board.
This includes regular review A budget process takes place annually, culminating in by the Board and management of the effectiveness of review and approval by the Board.
the Risk Management and Internal Control systems and Each business unit reports revenue, profitability, cash functions.
The Risk Management function, headed by position and forecasts monthly to the Chief Financial the Group Risk Manager, is supported by an Enterprise Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer considers these Risk Management ERM programme and the internal against forecasts and budget, and reports to the Board audit function.
The ERM programme provides quarterly.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer assurance to the Board on all matters concerning Group distributes monthly management accounts to the Risk, including strategic, operational, financial and directors.
The programme is structured in a way that focuses on the risks relevant to Dimension Datas Controls over business unit risks include reviews against business objectives.
During the year the risk performance indicators and exception reporting.
Business units senior management are responsible for management process was subject to a detailed review with a new risk management policy being approved.
identifying, evaluating and managing business risks.
This risk management process revealed certain control There are channels of communication available to report weaknesses which are in the process of being rectified.
significant risks to the Board if necessary.
36 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 standard ERP application across Europe is almost QUALITY AND INTEGRITY OF PERSONNEL complete.
Other important initiatives remain in place, The Group is committed to aligning its employees with including contract management process standardisation its interests and values.
It has an ethical code to which and the Group-wide adoption of the e-procurement employees are expected to adhere, and transgressions application, Direct.
AUTHORITY AND REVIEW IT SYSTEMS The Group has defined levels of authority for the The Group continued its consolidation of IT subsidiary boards and their directors for financial and infrastructure and applications across the Group.
operational decision making, including major In most cases, this requires at the same time a focus on investments, capital expenditure and contractual system and process standardisation, and this remains a engagements.
The Groups internal audit function big opportunity to extract efficiencies from the Groups operating model.
In particular, the adoption of a monitors compliance with these authority levels.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE PERIOD UNDER REVIEW Name Board 5 Audit 4 Remuneration 4 Nomination 2 JJ Ord 5 2 BW Dawson 5 SM Joubert 5 PK Quarmby 5 DB Sherriffs 5 4 RGML Barclay 5 4 LJ Bergman appointed August 2007 1 PJ Liddiard 5 1 W Lucas-Bull 3 4 J Malherbe 5 4 MM Ngoasheng 5 RM Scott 5 4 4 GH Waddell retired June 2007 11 1 PD Wharton-Hood 5 2 D Irish 4 Appointed to Audit Committee September 2007.
