Audit Committee report The Audit Committee presents its report on with the internal auditors twice during the period under activities during the period.
review and the Chairman of the Committee has met privately with them on two further occasions.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE External audit The members of the Audit Committee for the period under review were as follows: The Committee reviews the performance and independence of the external auditors.
When Rory Scott Chairman considering their independence, the safeguards and Rupert Barclay procedures undertaken by the external auditors are Peter Liddiard appointed September 2007 reviewed to ensure their independence and objectivity.
Gordon Waddell retired June 2007 Based on this review, the Committee has recommended Derek Irish the continued appointment of the external auditors for The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive the coming financial year.
During the period under directors, of whom two are independent, and Derek review the Committee reviewed the scope of the interim review and year end audit including the Group Irish, a senior partner in an independent accounting materiality level.
With respect to independence, practice.
During the period under review Gordon approval must be obtained from the Committee at the Waddell retired and Peter Liddiard was appointed.
end of the financial year for audit, tax services and A table showing attendance at committee meetings is agreed upon procedures in respect of audit services.
All the current committee Non-audit services during the financial year exceeding members are qualified chartered accountants.
$50,000 on an individual basis or $250,000 in total Biographical details for all directors can be found on must be approved by the Committee.
Details of the split between audit and non-audit work The Board of Directors has approved written terms of can be found in Note 6 of the annual financial reference for the Audit Committee.
The Committee considers that the reference are available on the Companys website approvals required for audit and non-audit services, www.
com together with the other controls in place within the The main duties and activities of the Committee in the Group, are sufficient to ensure the objectivity and period under review can be summarised as follows: independence of the external auditors.
Non-audit work during the period has comprised taxation and various INTERNAL CONTROL audit certificates.
The Committee has met with the external auditors four times and once without Group risk management present during the period under review.
The Committee, supported by the Group Risk Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups FINANCIAL STATEMENTS internal controls, including financial, operational and The Committee has reviewed the financial statements compliance controls, and procedures for identification, for the period, and has considered matters such as the assessment and reporting of risks.
The terms of appropriateness of the accounting policies, decisions reference for the Group Risk Committee, which reports requiring a major element of judgement, compliance to the Audit Committee, are available on the Companys with accounting standards, the going concern website www.
com assumption and the statement on internal control.
Internal audit OTHER MATTERS During the period under review the Group's internal The ethical code and whistle-blowing policy is intended audit team was extended by the appointment of to assist individuals who believe they have discovered additional resources in Europe and South Africa.
serious malpractice or impropriety to take the  has continued to act as appropriate action.
The Committee is satisfied that these internal auditor for the Group.
The Committee confirms arrangements provide for proportionate and the internal audit programme of work and reviews its independent investigation of matters reported and for reports.
The head of the internal audit function has direct appropriate follow up action.
A copy of the ethical code access to both the Chairman of the Audit Committee and whistle-blowing policy is available on the and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has met Companys website www.
com 38 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007
