Governance Nominations Committee Report Membership and meetings The current membership of the Committee is set out below and comprises the four independent non-executive directors plus the Group Chief Executive.
All the Committee members served throughout the period.
The Committee met once during the period.
Members Meetings attended during period Sir John Collins Chairman 1 John Clare 1 Rita Clifton 1 Count Emmanuel dAndr 1 Andrew Lynch 1 John Whybrow 1 The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
Role of the Committee The Committees principal roles and responsibilities are: to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its principal committees and to recommend changes deemed necessary: to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment to the Board: to be responsible for succession planning for Board members, in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive: and to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any specified term of appointment.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions or decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
The Committee's full terms of reference are on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
Key matters considered The principal matters considered by the Committee included the following: further consideration of succession planning in relation to Board members and senior executives within the Group: and the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year which confirmed the Committees opinion that the Boards size, composition and structure and the present Board Committee structure were appropriate to the present needs of the Group.
It remains the intention of the Committee to increase the executive representation on the Board in due course.
The Committee is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting Kevin OByrne, Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel dAndr are properly qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of guidance and time to the Boards deliberations.
Following the end of the period, the Committee considered and recommended the appointment of John Browett as Group Chief Executive following the announcement of John Clares retirement.
Sir John Collins Chairman of the Nominations Committee 50 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
