Governance Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings The current membership of the Committee, whose biographies and qualifications are set out on page 31, is set out in the table below and comprises the four independent non-executive directors.
All Committee members served throughout the period.
The Committee met four times during the period in June, September, January and April in advance of key internal and external reporting dates.
Members Meetings attended during period Andrew Lynch Chairman 4 Rita Clifton 3 Count Emmanuel dAndr 4 John Whybrow 4 The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee during the period.
Representatives of the external auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management were invited to attend each meeting to ensure that Committee members were fully informed and fully supported in carrying out their duties.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee, the Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors in private.
Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: review critical accounting policies and financial reporting judgements: review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control and risk management: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: the annual audit plan of both the internal and external audit functions including the principal areas of focus: review the group risk and insurance programmes: review regularly the Groups policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors, to approve the qualifying services and the level of non-audit fees and to monitor the services provided: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect of their re-appointment or removal: and monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern relating to financial matters and internal controls.
In addition, the Audit Committee has responsibilities for reviewing taxation matters and working capital management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
48 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Key matters considered In addition to executing the responsibilities described above, the key matters considered by the Committee during the period included: disaster recovery plans in place across the Group taking into account the lessons learned following the explosion at the Buncefield oil depot close to the Group headquarters in Hemel Hempstead in December 2005: significant issues arising from reports from both the internal and external audits: Raising concerns, the mechanism through which employees are able to raise in confidence issues with an independent party.
During the year this facility was extended to further business units: the systems and controls in place in FotoVista following the discovery of fraud and control issues: and the annual audit fee with particular regard to the balance between audit and non-audit fees.
In order to ensure the ongoing independence of the external auditors, the Committee has overseen a reduction in the use of Deloitte & Touche LLP for non-audit matters and the non-audit fees for the full year are now less than 50 per cent of the audit fee.
A pre-approval policy for non-audit work permitted to be carried out has been carefully monitored throughout the period and helps to ensure that engagements which might compromise auditor independence are not assigned to Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of Deloitte & Touche LLP, including the regular rotation of audit partner, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution for their re-appointment be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Andrew Lynch FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee DSG international plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
