Governance Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of DSG international plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings together the Group for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007.
Comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006. Business and Operating Review The Business and Operating Review is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
It covers areas contained in the Directors Report, the Business and Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review and should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The areas covered are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services, objectives and strategies of the Group and markets in which the Group operates Directors Report 34-35 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, treasury policies and objectives and liquidity Directors Report 36-39 The manner in which the Group measures its performance Directors Report 39-40 Share capital structure Directors Report 41 Review of the development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007 Business and Financial Review 8-20 Financial position of the Group as at 28 April 2007 Business and Financial Review 21-23 Future prospects of the business Business and Financial Review 9 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 28-29 Employee, social, ethical and community matters Corporate Responsibility Review 24-28 Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the multi-channel retail of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business B2B sales.
The Group comprises three divisions: Electricals, Computing and e-commerce.
The Electricals division operates in four regions: UK & Ireland: comprising Currys, Currys.
digital and Dixons Tax Free in the UK: and comprising Currys, Dixons and PC World in Ireland: the Nordic Region: comprising the Elkjp group of companies which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland and the Faroe Islands under brands such as Elkjp, Elko, El Giganten, Gigantti, Lefdal Lavpris and Markantalo: Southern Europe: comprising UniEuro in Italy and Kotsovolos in Greece: and Central Europe: comprising Electro World in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Computing division comprises: UK Computing: comprising PC World, PC World Business and The TechGuys: and International Computing: comprising PC City in Spain, Italy, Sweden and France.
PC City France operations are in the process of being closed.
The e-commerce division is made up of Dixons.
co. uk in the UK and FotoVista trading as PIXmania.
Products and services The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as Brown Goods, White Goods, Personal Computing, Mobile Phones and related products.
Brown Goods include televisions, DVD players, audio products, iPods and MP3 players, cameras and camcorders.
These products are characterised by rapid technological advances offering major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
34 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
