Page 27 Corporate governance Foodservice businesses.
Subsequent to the year end, John Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Coleman was appointed as an independent non-executive The Company is committed to the highest standards of director and chairman designate on 6th March 2008. corporate governance and throughout the year ended 31st Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at December 2007 the Company complied with the principles set the first AGM following their appointment and for re-election at out in section 1 of the June 2006 edition of the Combined least once every three years.
Should a non-executive director Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This statement serve for more than six years his re-election would be subject explains our governance policies and practices and describes to particularly rigorous review.
Should any non-executive how the Company has applied the principles and provisions director serve for longer than nine years he would then be of the Code.
The board and directors The board held twelve meetings during the year, consisting of seven scheduled meetings and five supplementary meetings The board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the predominantly to consider matters in relation to the sale of the success of the Company, the Groups system of corporate Foodservice businesses.
Paul Jackson was unable to attend two governance, its strategic objectives and the stewardship of the of the supplementary meetings due to prior commitments.
The board is satisfied that it meets the Codes requirements for effective operation.
The board takes Board balance and independence full responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters which are also included in the risk management process.
During the year the board complied with the Code requirement that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, comprise The board promotes the success of the Group and provides non-executive directors determined by the board to be leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls independent.
At the year end, the board comprised the that enable risks and opportunities to be assessed and managed.
chairman, whom the board deemed to have been independent To help ensure the effective control of the Group, the board has on appointment, two executive directors and four independent a number of items reserved for its sole consideration.
All of the non-executive directors are schedule of matters reserved for board decision was reviewed independent of management and free from any business or during the year and include the following key areas: approval other relationship which could materially interfere with the of results announcements and the annual report and accounts: exercise of their independent judgement.
Each non-executive dividend policy: key financial matters including major capital director possesses a wide range of skills and experience.
The investments, restructuring costs, acquisitions and divestments, board will keep under review the size and structure of the treasury policy, significant changes in accounting policy and board to ensure it is appropriate for the ongoing business.
practice: capital structure: corporate strategy: approval of the Groups budget and business plan: corporate governance and Chairman and chief executive listing requirements: corporate social responsibility: delegation The roles and responsibilities of the chairman and chief of authority to the executive management committee.
executive are clearly divided, set out in writing and regularly As of 1st January 2008, the board comprised Vic Cocker, chairman, reviewed by the board.
The chairman is responsible for the William McGrath, chief executive, Shaun Smith, finance director effective running of the board.
The chief executive is and four independent non-executive directors, Paul Dermody, responsible for implementing strategy, running the businesses Paul Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter Tom.
Peter Tom was the in accordance with the objectives and policies agreed by the senior independent director throughout the year.
Biographies board and for the executive management of the Group.
of the current directors are shown on pages 22 and 23.
Board information, training and development A number of changes to the board were announced during the year.
On 19th October 2007 it was announced that Vic Cocker The board has a forward rolling business agenda, which is would retire from the board after the 2008 AGM.
Stephen updated after each meeting to include specific topics that Rennie was an executive director until 18th December 2007 directors have requested be reviewed at future meetings.
The when he resigned to take up a role with the purchaser of the board reviews the key activities of the business and receives AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 28 Corporate governance papers and presentations from senior management and chairman, chief executive and non-executive directors, the external advisers to enable it to do so effectively.
From the operation and performance of the board, its committees and beginning of 2008, the board will receive regular reports from the committee chairman, governance matters and evaluation the executive management committee, covering a broad range methods.
The one to one interviews included a broad range of of issues including health, safety and environmental matters, topics including discussions on specific projects and performance, finance and operational performance, risk management, particular areas for improvement, a review of issues raised by business development initiatives, special projects, legal and shareholders during the year, as well as a review of individual regulatory developments, governance and best practice performance, knowledge gaps and training requirements.
guidelines that affect the Group.
The company secretary is The non-executive directors, including the chairman, met responsible to the board, and is available to individual without the executive directors being present during the year directors, in respect of board procedures.
In conjunction with and led by the senior independent director, the non-executive the chairman, the company secretary ensures that information directors met without the chairman present to review his distributed to the board is sufficient, clear and accurate, that it performance.
is circulated in a timely manner and is appropriate to enable The results of the performance evaluation were considered by the board to discharge its duties.
Papers are generally the board resulting in a number of action points being dispatched five days before a board meeting.
incorporated into the 2008 business agenda.
The aim of the On appointment to the board all directors receive appropriate action plan is to continually improve processes, procedures and induction training.
This includes site visits and meetings with performance.
senior management and the Companys advisers.
Major The schedule of matters reserved for the board, statements shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet new nonoutlining the roles of the chairman and chief executive, the executive directors.
Directors receive regular updates terms of reference of the committees and other policy appropriate to the business throughout the year and the statements are reviewed annually as part of the formal Company provides resources for directors to develop and evaluation process.
refresh their knowledge and capabilities as required.
All directors are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so as The chairman communicates frequently with the non-executive to be able to participate fully in the work of the board.
Directors are also encouraged to discuss any issues or concerns with the chairman at any time To assist with the independent conduct of their function, the throughout the year.
Directors are encouraged to ensure that non-executive directors are able to obtain professional advice any unresolved issues are formally minuted.
at the Companys expense, if required in connection with their duties, and a process is in place to facilitate this.
In addition, all Accountability and audit directors have access to the services of the company secretary.
The Group maintains appropriate directors and officers liability The statement of the responsibility of directors for the insurance cover.
preparation of the directors report and the accounts under IFRS is set out on page 71 page 78 in respect of UK GAAP.
Board performance evaluation The Group going concern statement is on page 26 with the Company statement on page 78.
During the year, the board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees and the Internal control and risk management individual directors.
The formal evaluation process included questionnaires supplemented by individual interviews The board is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems for undertaken by the chairman.
Any specific issues raised in the financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
questionnaires were followed up by the chairman, along with a Together with the audit and risk committee, the board confirms number of other topics for discussion.
The questionnaires that it has established procedures necessary to comply with the considered a number of areas including the performance of the Code to implement the guidance on internal control issued by BOARD AUDIT AND RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Director Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended V Cocker 12 12 2 2 W B McGrath 12 12 S Rennie 12 12 S M Smith 12 12 P B Dermody 12 12 3 3 2 2 7 7 P E Jackson 12 10 3 3 2 2 7 6 H M Mahy 12 12 3 3 2 2 7 7 P W G Tom 12 12 3 3 2 2 7 7 Attendance table exclude meetings attended by invitation AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 29 the Turnbull Committee: and is reporting in accordance with Risk factors that guidance.
The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an The board is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains ongoing process throughout the year.
Risk is a formal agenda systems of internal controls, including internal financial control, item at the October meeting of the audit and risk committee.
operational and compliance controls and risk management Key risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 11 to 15 of the systems and for monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
Meetings of the board and the audit and risk committee ensure This process has identified a number of risks where action plans that risk management and internal control are considered on a have been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate these regular basis throughout the year, and are subject to risks including the use of insurance where appropriate.
The continuous review and development.
This includes board has not identified or been advised of any significant consideration of corporate social responsibility matters as failings or weaknesses where action has not been taken which outlined in the chief executives review on pages 16 to 21. might have a material impact on the business.
The executive management committee receives a monthly Communication with shareholders summary of the financial results from each business unit in a standardised reporting format and provides updates directly In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a to the board.
The Group has in place an annual budgeting balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups process and the draft budget is approved annually by the financial position and prospects and this is outlined in the board.
Business performance is a standing agenda item at chief executives review.
The Company reports formally to board meetings.
A comparison of forecast and actual results shareholders twice a year when its half year and full year results is considered, with comparisons against budgets and the are announced and an interim and a full year report is issued to prior year.
There are regular institutional, analyst and media presentations which cover strategy, trading and market There is an ongoing and forward looking process for conditions with copies of the major presentations made identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks across available on the corporate website www.
Risk reviews are carried out at each business unit, The Company seeks to present an accurate and objective view taking into account the likelihood of occurrence and the in a manner appropriate for the intended audience.
Risks considered include operational and with the major shareholders is principally maintained by the financial contingencies, legal and regulatory compliance and chief executive and finance director.
The chairman ensures that social, environmental and ethical issues.
The process identifies the views of shareholders are communicated to the board as a both short and long-term risks to business performance and whole.
The board is provided with a summary of the feedback value.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than from broker and shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can and has met with the Companys brokers during the year to only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against ensure they are aware of the current views of major material misstatement or loss.
shareholders and of any material issues they may have.
At business unit level, there are regular management and At the request of shareholders the chairman and senior board meetings to review all aspects of the Groups business, independent director held meetings with shareholders during including those where there are potential risks to the Group.
the year, without the executive directors being present.
Members of the executive management committee undertake On each occasion a briefing note was provided to the board as frequent visits to business units to discuss strategy, review a whole and the key issues raised by shareholders were business performance and significant operational and financial discussed and, where necessary, action taken.
Key procedures include planning, budgeting and meetings were requested with the other non-executive investment appraisal.
Feedback is provided to the board.
The internal and external auditors report regularly to management, the audit and risk committee and the board on Constructive use of the AGM their activities, findings and recommendations.
The AGM is normally attended by all members of the board A control structure is in place with defined delegated and is an opportunity for shareholders to meet the directors, authorities for management throughout the Group and senior managers and the Companys advisers and to ask includes clear approval requirements for decisions which have questions.
At the AGM, the chief executive provides a brief a major financial implication for the business units concerned.
presentation outlining developments within the Group.
The Continual monitoring of systems of internal financial control is meeting provides a useful interface with private shareholders, the responsibility of all management teams.
many of whom are also customers.
The notice of the meeting The directors confirm that they have conducted a specific and related papers are sent to shareholders at least twenty-one annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of clear days before the meeting, and separate resolutions are internal control and risk management in respect of the proposed on each substantial issue.
Details of the results of financial period and up to the date of this report.
Systems of proxy voting are announced after each resolution has been internal control are designed to provide reasonable, but not dealt with on a show of hands.
Immediately after the AGM the absolute assurance, to safeguard shareholders investments, Company issues a market announcement setting out the the Groups assets and ensure that financial information and results of the AGM and details are made available on the accounting records are reliable.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 30 Corporate governance Details of the 2008 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting in function and ensuring it is adequately resourced: a separate circular issued to shareholders, along with details of considering reports from internal auditors on work the facilities available for proxy votes to be cast electronically.
undertaken during the year including audits, investigations The Company offers shareholders the right to withhold their and whistleblowing reports.
The committee has agreed the vote, if they so wish, in line with best practice.
As detailed on programme of work for the internal audit function for the page 80, shareholders may contact our investor relations year ending 31st December 2008: personnel at the corporate office or by email to ir@agafoodservice.
com with any questions, issues or concerns.
considering reports from the external auditors, including their The non-executive directors may be contacted by email at review of the effectiveness of controls across the Group and a nonexec@agafoodservice.
review of management action taken in response to the findings and recommendations of the auditors: Committees of the board monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence The board delegates specific responsibilities to board and objectivity, reviewing and agreeing the nature and scope committees which carry out a significant amount of work of the audit, monitoring the performance of the external towards the successful management of the Group.
The board auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: has established audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees as described below and in the remuneration making a recommendation to the board with respect to the report.
Each board committee has terms of reference that meet level of audit fees paid to the external auditors: the provisions of the Code and they are approved by the board the review of the external auditor non-audit fees and and are reviewed annually as part of the performance consultancy spend which in 2007 included services evaluation process.
These terms of reference are available on amounting to 1.4m in relation to due diligence work and tax the Group website at www.
In addition, consultancy services: certain matters have been delegated to the executive management committee.
receiving updates from the Groups treasury and taxation departments.
Audit and risk committee The committee keeps the potential re-tendering of the external During the year, membership of the audit and risk committee audit services under review.
Ernst & Young LLP were appointed the committee comprised Paul Dermody chairman, Paul auditors following a formal tender exercise in June 2006.
Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter Tom.
Each of these directors is During the year the committee reviewed the scope and non-executive and regarded by the board as independent.
The programme of work to be undertaken by the external auditors, board has determined that Paul Dermody has recent and considered the independence and objectivity of services relevant financial experience.
The chairman, chief executive, provided and reviewed the level of fees paid for those services.
finance director, head of internal audit and the external auditors attend the majority of meetings by invitation.
Other Resolution 8 set out in the notice of AGM recommends that senior management and advisers are invited to attend shareholders reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys meetings as required.
The head of internal audit reports to the auditors and Resolution 9 authorises the directors to determine finance director and has direct access to the chairman of the their remuneration.
The committee members, all other directors and When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the Group senior management have direct access to the external auditors considers the value for money, experience and objectivity throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or concerns.
required and in this respect it has used other accounting firms The main responsibilities of the committee are to assist the to conduct a range of non-audit work.
The committee board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities for financial recognises that there are occasions when it is advantageous to reporting, internal control and risk management processes.
use the external auditors to undertake non-audit services, The committee met three times during the year.
All committee when they are best placed to do so.
The committee operates members attended all meetings and committee members met under a formal policy approved by the board to help ensure with the external auditors without the executive management the independence and objectivity of the external auditors is being present.
The committee has an agenda linked to events not compromised.
The policy states that non-audit fees paid to in the Groups financial calendar and the work of the committee the principal external auditors should not exceed 250% of the during the year included: audit fee, except in the case of significant events.
The chairman reviewing the results and annual report and accounts, of the committee is required to authorise non-audit work monitoring the integrity of financial statements of the Group above a pre-agreed threshold.
Note 3 to the Group accounts and considering any significant reporting judgements provides a breakdown of 2006 and 2007 audit and non-audit contained therein: fees.
In 2007, the non-audit services provided by the external auditors exceeded the pre-agreed threshold.
In authorising the reviewing formal announcements relating to the Groups work to be undertaken by E&Y in respect of the due diligence financial performance: work relating to the disposals of Domain and the Foodservice reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial businesses, the committee considered value for money and the control and risk management systems: firm best placed to undertake the work effectively.
The committee deemed these disposals to be significant events.
monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 31 Nomination committee During the year the nomination committee the committee comprised Vic Cocker chairman, Paul Dermody, Paul Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter Tom.
The chief executive is invited to attend meetings at the request of the committee.
The committee met twice during the year.
A majority of members are independent non-executive directors and all committee members attended all meetings.
The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to keep under review the size, structure and composition of the board and its committees: to ensure that adequate succession planning is in place: and when necessary identify and nominate individuals for appointment to the board and its committees.
The committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the existing board members and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a new appointment.
Candidates are considered by the committee, taking advice from external search consultants where appropriate.
No director is involved in any decisions regarding his or her own appointment.
Vic Cocker was not involved in the formal process to select his own successor.
Following the announcement that Vic Cocker intended to retire from the board after the 2008 AGM, the committee nominated Peter Tom to act as chairman of the committee and to lead the process to find a successor for the role of chairman of the board.
The process described above, including the use of external search consultants, was used in connection with the appointment of John Coleman as a non-executive director and chairman designate.
This review also included an assessment of the time commitment expected from the new chairman.
John Coleman has undertaken to meet this expectation and has disclosed to the board his other significant commitments.
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial threeyear term pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which is available for viewing at the Companys registered office during normal business hours or at the AGM.
The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive a full induction: and when considering the reappointment of directors ensures that the board has an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Items discussed by the committee during the year to enable it to discharge its duties in accordance with its terms of reference included: the size, structure, composition and skills of the board membership: the appointment of an independent external selection consultant to assist the committee in identifying potential candidates for the role of chairman: the proposal to re-elect Helen Mahy, Shaun Smith and William McGrath under the retirement by rotation provisions: the board and board committee evaluation process.
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates from the chief executive and other advisers on succession and development planning for senior positions within the Group.
Changes to directors commitments are reported to the committee as they arise and are considered on their individual merits.
There were no significant changes to the retiring chairmans external commitments during the year.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
