Corporate governance It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2007, there has been full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, with the exception that, as the former holder of an executive office, Gordon Horsfield as Chairman was not independent within the meaning of code provision A.
The Board of directors As at 3 March 2008, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The directors are named in the Directors report on page 35 and their principal commitments outside the Group are described within their biographical notes on pages 32 and 33.
The Board meets at least six times each year and more frequently if appropriate.
In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider Group strategy.
Gordon Horsfield is the Chairman.
Between 19 April 2005 and 26 September 2005, he also undertook the role of acting Group Chief Executive and from 27 September 2005 until 7 March 2006 that of full-time Chairman.
As a consequence of holding those executive positions Gordon is not independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
On 7 March 2006, upon the completion of a hand-over period following Dorothy Thompsons appointment, Gordon relinquished his remaining executive responsibilities and has since served as part-time non-executive Chairman.
The Board considered it appropriate that he continue as Chairman in view of his experience and knowledge of the Group, the industry and commerce generally.
The Board also considered that the short period during which Gordon acted as Chief Executive did not adversely affect his independence of judgement.
On 18 December 2007, the Company announced that Gordon Horsfield will retire as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 April 2008.
He will be succeeded by Charles Berry, currently a non-executive director who joined the Board in December 2005.
The Board considers that Charles Berry will be independent on appointment.
Dorothy Thompson is the Chief Executive and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and government bodies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing, was agreed by the Board on 14 December 2005 and was reviewed and varied by the Board on 23 October 2006.
Gordon Boyd is the Finance Director.
He is responsible for the financial management of the Group, its risk management systems and systems of internal control, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
Peter Emery is the Production Director and is responsible for the operation, safety, repair and maintenance of the electricity generation plant at the power station and for the Drax site.
Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby have served the Group as independent non-executive directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
Having reviewed their position, the Board has again concluded that each of them is independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
Tim Barker is the senior independent director.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third of directors rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third Annual General Meeting AGM following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
Tim Barker, Gordon Boyd and Peter Emery retire by rotation this year and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM.
The Board considers it appropriate that each of them be re-elected because of their individual experience and knowledge within the electricity generation sector, wider management and industry experience.
After performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that each continues to be effective and committed to his role.
Each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, currently holds a letter of appointment which provides for his appointment to continue indefinitely subject to one months notice of termination.
The Chairmans letter of appointment provides for a fixed three year term, subject to six months notice on either side.
Charles Berry has a letter of appointment in similar terms, which will take effect upon his appointment as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will serve for a term not exceeding three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, in the case of the independent non-executive directors, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service including service as a non-executive director of Drax Group Limited of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years and, as required by the Combined Code, any proposal made in the future to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years will be the subject of a rigorous review.
The Board expects to develop a programme of rotational retirement of non-executive directors as a result of which the skills and experience available to the Board will be refreshed periodically.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk particularly in its trading activities : the internal control and risk management policies: the annual plan and key performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material 38 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a scheme of delegation approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No director sought any such advice during 2007.
As mentioned in the Directors report, each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Internal control The Board sets the risk management policies applicable to trading operations and also satisfies itself periodically that effective arrangements are in place for the management of all non-trading risks to which the Group is exposed and that those management arrangements are being effectively monitored by the Audit Committee.
Responsibility lies with the Finance Director to canvas opinions of directors, senior managers and other appropriate staff at least annually as part of the process of review of the Risk Register for the Group.
During the year the Board received, via its Audit Committee, and approved a report on a review of the Risk Register.
During the year, the Board reviewed arrangements for the monitoring of trading performance and risks against the risk management policies approved by the Board.
Monitoring is undertaken by a Risk Management Committee of the principal operating subsidiary, Drax Power Limited, chaired by the Finance Director and attended, from time to time as an observer, by one of the Group non-executive directors.
The Board receives a summary report from the Risk Management Committee each month.
Through the Audit Committee the Board has implemented and annually reviews and updates a programme of internal audit reviews of different aspects of the Groups activities designed to ensure that, over time, all facets of the business are reviewed to ensure appropriate systems of control are in place and are working effectively or, where they are not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing the actions to be taken in response to each report, the aim is always to embed internal controls, including measures intended effectively to identify and manage risk, within each area of the Groups operations.
In parallel with its work in relation to internal audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself that an action plan for dealing with points raised by the external auditors in their yearly management letters is being properly addressed by management.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
It has reviewed the reports of the Audit Committee, which has conducted a formal annual review covering all controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and updated in October 2005.
Following its review the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
Committees of the Board The Board has established the following standing committees: Committee Membership Audit Committee Jamie Dundas as Chairman, Tim Barker, and Charles Berry.
Remuneration Committee Tim Barker as Chairman, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby.
Nominations Committee Gordon Horsfield as Chairman, Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby.
Health and Safety Committee Mike Grasby as Chairman, Dorothy Thompson, Peter Emery and the Head of Safety.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 42 to 53.
The Board attaches particular importance to the role of its Health and Safety Committee because of the fundamental importance of safety systems and procedures in a large and complex plant such as that of Drax.
The Committees terms of reference provide for it to review policy, monitor performance and hold management accountable for the efficacy of the Groups health and safety procedures and performance.
39 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings, and attendance at them by directors, of the Board, Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, and Health and Safety Committees of Drax Group plc during 2007.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Health Audit Nominations Remuneration and Safety Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 9 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 Charles Berry 9 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 Gordon Boyd 9 9 Jamie Dundas 9 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 Peter Emery 9 9 2 2 Mike Grasby 9 9 2 2 4 4 2 2 Gordon Horsfield 9 9 2 2 Dorothy Thompson 9 9 2 2 Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
During the year the Company undertook a review to assess the performance of the Board, its committees and directors.
The review was facilitated by Corporate Partners, a consultancy specialising in providing assurance to listed companies on best practice in company regulation and corporate governance.
The directors and Company Secretary completed a detailed confidential questionnaire on the Board and committee processes, their effectiveness and areas where they may be improved.
The individual responses were collated and assessed by Corporate Partners, who prepared and presented a report to the Board.
The report concluded that the Board was effective and its performance compared well with that of other companies.
Following discussion of the report, a number of actions were agreed to improve and increase the Boards focus on key issues such as strategy, business planning and performance.
Individual feedback sessions were later conducted by the Chairman with each director so that matters raised by his or her peers could be communicated as a basis for helping individuals to enhance their own performance.
Led by its Chairman, each Committee of the Board reviewed its own performance and reported to the Board which concluded that, whilst performance was satisfactory, there were some areas where improvement would be desirable.
For its next performance review, the Board will consider whether to engage external assistance.
A review of the performance of the Chairman was undertaken during the year under the leadership of the senior independent director and by means of individual conversations with each director.
Thereafter the senior independent director provided detailed feedback to the Chairman on his own performance.
As stated in its report on pages 46 to 53, in February 2008, when deciding the executive directors bonuses for 2007, the Remuneration Committee also evaluated the performance of each of the executive directors, against both corporate targets and personal objectives.
This evaluation was informed by the results of a confidential survey of senior managers opinions, which also covered the Chairman.
The results of this survey were fed back to relevant directors.
During the year the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors as required by provision A.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically again review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an induction, including information about the Company and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and visits to the Companys site.
In addition, specific Board training days are arranged involving presentations on relevant topics.
Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include the Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM and periodic reports to the Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
40 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Major shareholders are regularly offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the USA.
These took place following both the preliminary and interim results announcements in 2007.
In December 2007, the Board commissioned Makinson Cowell, an independent capital markets consultancy firm, to survey the opinions of its major shareholders, and its findings were reported directly to the Board.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold approximately 1% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
This Annual Report and Accounts together with other public announcements is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans introduction, Chief Executives review, Business and financial review, and Corporate and social responsibility review provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
This Annual Report is being despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and the accompanying Form of Proxy provides for a shareholder to indicate abstention as an alternative to a vote in favour or against each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a regulatory information service and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors have chosen to prepare Accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of IFRSs Accounts, IAS 1 requires that Accounts present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of UK GAAP Accounts, the directors are required to prepare Accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for the period.
In preparing these Accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Accounts.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
During 2007, the website underwent a complete overhaul and now has much improved information content and navigation capabilities.
The Group Independent auditors report on pages 54 and 55 summarises their review of the Groups compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code as applicable to the Group during the year under review.
41 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
