Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the Companys corporate governance.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that they The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC risks.
On appointment, new Directors are given appropriate induction Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 and training, including site visits to major business units.
During the year the updated in June 2006.
The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate Board carried out a comprehensive self-appraisal which was led by the governance policy and has implemented some changes to take account Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Board concluded that of the Combined Code and best practice.
The Companys Auditors have the review process showed that the Board and its Committees operated reviewed the compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code effectively.
The review resulted in a Board paper and an action plan aimed specified for their review.
at further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board.
The review comprised feedback from a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The appraisal Board and Board Committees included the performance of Board Committees, although a separate and The role of the Board more detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee was also carried out The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the during the year.
All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
During the current financial year the Board intends to repeat role is to provide leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent the process.
The non-Executive Directors meet separately at least once and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
a year to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company Board Committees to meet its objectives, and reviews management performance.
The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees comprise In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and independent non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee comprises ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood a majority of independent non-Executive Directors.
All Board Committees and met.
have written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and four nonon the Companys website.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr C J Executive Directors.
The ofces of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are Bunker, the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston and the held separately.
Mr R G Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Johnson.
The membership and Mr A P Hichens, who was Chairman from September 1999, retired from experience of each Committee can be seen on page 8.
The Board has the Board at the end of December 2006, having reached the age of 70. used the criteria proposed by the National Association of Pension Funds Mr P M Johnson, who was a non-Executive Director of the Company from for determining whether a non-Executive Director is independent.
December 1999 until December 2006, became Chairman on 1 January Audit Committee 2007.
During the year each of the non-Executive Directors has at all times In addition to the Committee members listed on page 8, the Chairman, acted independently of management and has no relationships which would the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended parts decision making.
It is recognised that Mr D R Piette was not considered of each meeting by invitation.
Mr Johnson retired as a member of the a fully independent non-Executive Director because of his length of service.
Committee on taking up his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year.
During the year under Mr P J C Mellier became a member of the Committee with effect from review it met eight times.
All Board members attend all Board and relevant his appointment to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker has Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent them from both current and relevant financial experience.
During the year Mr Hichens did not attend the Board meeting held in October 2006 and Mr Piette did not attend the Board meeting The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three held in March 2007.
There were no other absences from any Board or times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code Committee meetings by any Director.
In addition to formal Board meetings, except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility of the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all the Board.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Directors and hold informal meetings with non-Executive Directors to discuss Board in fullling its responsibilities relating to: issues affecting the Company.
Once a year the Board visits a business unit the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the and receives a presentation from local management.
Individual Directors Groups accounts: are encouraged to make additional site visits during the year.
The Board continually reviews the performance of all of the divisions and undertakes external financial reporting and associated announcements: a strategic review on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration matters reserved for consideration and approval for the Board.
These of the Groups Auditors: include the annual Plan, substantial acquisitions and divestments, the approval of the annual and interim results and a review of the overall the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Operational system of internal control and risk management.
Audit department: The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment: and information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles effectively.
the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Corporate Governance.
A procedure is in place for any Director to take independent 38 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external the right person for the role based on his skill, experience and knowledge Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance Director.
Consequently, the Committee did not consider it appropriate to place an external advertisement for the position of The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine their Chairman.
The Committee met twice during the year and there were independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee receives no absences.
written conrmation from the external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a bearing on their independence, whether they consider Remuneration Committee themselves independent within the meaning of the UK regulatory and The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings by professional requirements, and their quality control processes.
invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.
In addition Mr Piette attended by invitation in order that he could provide an The Committees policy on the supply of non-audit services by external international view on remuneration.
Mr Johnson retired as a member auditors is as follows.
The external Auditors are permitted to undertake of the Committee on taking up his appointment as Chairman of the some non-audit services, for example advisory services and due diligence Board.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the activities associated with potential acquisitions and divestments and major remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company changes in accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and fees are Secretary and for advising on the remuneration of senior management.
reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual nonThe Report on Remuneration is set out on pages 41 to 47.
During the audit fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of the year the Committee met four times and there were no absences.
annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Committee: Other Board Committees during 2006 07, non-audit fees were less than 10% of the annual Group The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, audit fee.
Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required to the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief by this Group policy which species that individual projects which would Executive and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of cost over 100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee the Group Chief Executive.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions, one of which was Relations with Shareholders to receive presentations from the audit rms tendering for the external audit The Company has a programme of regular meetings which sometimes and consequently to make a recommendation to the Board, and there were includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, site visits and no absences.
On three of these occasions the Committee also met privately results briengs with its major institutional shareholders, which provides with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit.
The opportunities to discuss the progress of the business.
The Board also Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings receives feedback from major shareholders in the form of independently during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit prepared reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity and the Group Finance Director.
to communicate with private shareholders, including a short presentation on the business and current trading position as well as an opportunity for In addition to its regular business, during the year the Committee dealt with questions from investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen the following particular matters: of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Regular communication with it conducted a tender process for the Groups external audit and made shareholders also takes place through the annual and interim reports and a recommendation to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP should be via the Companys website www.
appointed as the Groups external auditor in place of KPMG Audit Plc, which had been the Groups external auditor for over 20 years: Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal it considered progress on revisions to certain elements of the Groups control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, however, can internal controls procedures: only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Committee guidance, the external Auditors and Operational Audit the results of which were the Company established the procedures necessary to ensure that there reported to the Board.
The Committee concluded that each area is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the operated satisfactorily during the year: and significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2007 and up to Groups Workplace Malpractice policy.
the date of the approval of these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee considers the appointment of Directors, The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
It reviews succession planning at Board level and makes recommendations meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required to to the Board as a whole.
Mr R E C Marton and Mr A D Thorne were be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2007, Mr Thorne the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate having previously attended by invitation.
A rigorous process is in place to the business environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements for the appointment of new Directors, involving the use of external of this system include: recruitment consultants, where appropriate, followed by meetings both a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated with the Committee and then with the Board.
The Committee planned for to all employees: some time for the appointment of a new Chairman to succeed Mr Hichens in anticipation of his retiring from the Board at the end of 2006, having a clearly dened divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring the conduct and operations of individual business units: reached the age of 70.
The Committee considered that Mr Johnson was DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 39 Corporate Governance continued clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the The Groups Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews of the matters reserved for the Board: Groups operations and their systems of internal financial control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Committee, which regularly reviews a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Groups its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed operations are identied and assessed on a regular basis, together the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This included a with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration process of self-certication by senior divisional management in which they is embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies are periodically reported to the Board and considered by it: and procedures and to report any significant control weaknesses identied the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and during the past year.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of the Groups Operational Audit function and the risk identication and the corporate strategy: management processes identied above.
the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, Going Concern forecasts and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all The Directors are required under the Combined Code to have satisfied significant variances: themselves as to the Groups ability to continue in existence for the clearly dened policies for capital expenditure and investment, including foreseeable future.
A review has been carried out and the Directors have appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to and disposals requiring Board approval: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and statements on pages 54 to 98. policies to apply throughout the Group: and formal quarterly meetings between central and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
40 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007
