Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Nomination Committee the Committee The principal responsibility of the Committee is to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of a new Director or Chairman.
In discharging that responsibility the Committee is required: 1. to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: 2. to assess the time commitment expected on the part of the Chairman of the Company and to require Non-executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them: 3. to oversee the search process, using such outside advisers as the Committee may consider appropriate: 4. to keep the Board advised of the candidates who have been identied for approach and on the preferred candidates for initial interviews: 5. to arrange for all members of the Board to meet the preferred candidate prior to making a formal recommendation to the full Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com investors under the heading Corporate Governance.
Composition of the Committee The names of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 31 December 2007 are as follows: Mr P G Rogerson Chairman Mr R C Soames Mr A C Salvesen Mr N H Northridge Mr R V McGlone Mr D C M Hamill appointed 1 May 2007 Mr R J MacLeod appointed 10 September 2007 The Committee is composed of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Non-executive Directors.
The qualications of the members of the Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 14 and 15.
There is no specic provision for remuneration of the members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings The number of meetings of the Committee held during 2007 and attendance is set out on page 41.
Main activities of the Committee in the year to 31 December 2007 1.
Succession Planning The Committee met to consider Board succession planning.
2. Letters of Appointment The Committee considered the issue of a new letter of appointment to the Chairman and one Non-executive Director.
Appointment of Additional Directors During the year the Committee selected two Non-executive Directors.
The Committee oversaw the search and selection process, advised the Board of suitable candidates and ensured that all Board members met the preferred candidates prior to making a full recommendation of their appointment, to the Board.
Mr D C M Hamill was appointed on 1 May 2007, and Mr R J MacLeod was appointed on 10 September 2007.
Directors Retiring and Seeking Election or Re-election The Committee considered the contribution and commitment of the Directors standing for election or re-election and recommended to the Board that they be put forward for election or re-election.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 March 2008 54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
