Corporate Governance A programme has been prepared that is designed to Introduction ensure that new Directors receive a full, formal and The Board remains committed to high standards of tailored induction on joining the Board.
During the corporate governance and supports The Combined year the Board visits operational locations: Directors Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
are briefed on a wide range of topics and are given the opportunity to discuss aspects of the business with Board Meetings and Responsibilities employees.
Directors have access to independent Corporate governance is the responsibility of all professional advice at the Companys expense where Directors.
The Board meets at least six times a year.
they judge this to be necessary to discharge their Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have access Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, capital projects over a dened limit, annual budgets, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that new Group borrowing facilities and significant Board procedures are complied with.
changes to employee benefit schemes.
Independent Directors There is a distinct and dened division of The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Group responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman is five Non-executive Directors: their details are set out primarily responsible for the effective working of the on pages 14 and 15.
The Non-executive Directors Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for bring a wide range of experience to the Company and the operational management of the business and for the Mr N H Northridge, Mr R V McGlone, Mr D C M implementation of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Hamill and Mr R J MacLeod are considered by the The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Board to be independent as dened in the Code.
Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Led Mr A C Salvesen has significant share interests and by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive has served as a Director of the Company for more Directors meet without the Chairman present on such than nine years and therefore is not considered to other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
be independent by the Board for the purposes of the Code.
The Board has satisfied itself that none The attendance of Directors at meetings in 2007 is set of the Non-executive Directors represents any other out in the table below: RemunNomiShareholder or group of Shareholders.
Board Audit eration nation Notes Meetings Committee Committee Committee Mr N H Northridge is the Senior Independent Number of Meetings Director and is available to meet with Shareholders in 2007 7366 if they have concerns which contact through the P G Rogerson 7 n a n a 6 normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or R C Soames 7 n a n a 6 Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which F A B Shepherd 7 n a n a n a such contact is inappropriate.
A G Cockburn 7 n a n a n a G P Walker 7 n a n a n a The Code states that at least half of the Board, K Pandya 7 n a n a n a A C Salvesen 1 6 1 1 3 3 5 excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of N H Northridge 7366 independent Non-executive Directors.
However, R V McGlone 6256 the Directors believe that to achieve this balance, D C M Hamill 2 5 5 2 2 4 4 4 4 requiring the appointment of further additional R J MacLeod 3 3 3 2 2 3 3 2 2 Directors, would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
n a Not a member of the relevant Committee Note 1: Stood down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 1 May 2007 maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
Note 2: Joined the Board on 1 May 2007 maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
Note 3: Joined the Board on 10 September 2007 maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of Directors Board Performance Evaluation One third of the members of the Board must retire The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its by rotation each year and may offer themselves for own performance.
This involved the completion of re-election if eligible.
The Board has also resolved assessment questionnaires by all Directors covering that all of its members must submit themselves for the performance of the Board and its Committees.
re-election at regular intervals of at least every three Other aspects that were reviewed included the years.
Any Director appointed by the Board will be effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Nonsubject to election by Shareholders at the first executive Directors, the monitoring of operational opportunity after his or her appointment and will not performance, and corporate governance, as well as be taken into account in determining the Directors leadership and culture.
The Board considered a who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Nonsummary of the conclusions and this was followed up executive Directors who have served longer than nine by meetings as appropriate with individual Directors.
years e. g. three three-year terms are subject to annual re-election.
Relations with Shareholders The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 118 Standing Committees to 124 sets out the resolutions that will be proposed The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board Remuneration Committees, the memberships, roles supports the use of this meeting as a means of and activities of which are detailed in separate reports: communicating with private investors and encourages Audit Committee on pages 52 and 53, Nomination their participation.
The Company is ready, where Committee on page 54 and Remuneration Committee practicable, to enter into a dialogue with Shareholders, on pages 55 to 66.
Each Committee reports to, and through analyst briengs and investor presentations.
has its Terms of Reference approved by, the Board and Senior executives seek to meet regularly with the minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated institutional and major Shareholders to improve their to, and reviewed by, the Board.
understanding of the Company and its objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet The Terms of Reference of the standing Committees Shareholders if they have concerns.
In addition to of the Board are available on our website at attending meetings with Shareholders, the Board has www.
com investors under the heading sought to understand the views of investors better by Corporate Governance.
commissioning regular feedback reports from the Companys stockbrokers.
42 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Internal Control Review of Effectiveness of Internal Control The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the by establishing a continuous process for identifying, Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system evaluating and managing the risks that are considered of internal control.
This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against formal review that is designed to assess the application material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring of the principal financial and operational controls framework covers a wide range of controls, including operated by the Group.
The review, which is based financial, operational and compliance controls together on self-assessment by senior operational management, with risk management.
It is based principally on is carried out using a risk review and control reviewing reports from management and considering questionnaire and is intended to complement the whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, internal and external audit procedures.
There is also a managed and controlled and ensuring that any comprehensive procedure for monitoring all significant significant weakness thus identied is promptly risks and key risks have been identied on a risk remedied.
Internal Audit is engaged as part of this register.
The Board has considered the probability process.
The Board continues to enhance and of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as strengthen the procedures for identifying and the actions that would be taken in response to them monitoring key areas of risk.
The Board also considers nancing and investment The Board has undertaken a specic assessment of decisions concerning the Group and monitors the internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury This assessment considered all significant aspects of risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by internal control during the year ended 31 December the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system of During each financial year the Audit Committee internal control.
of the Board reviews the external and internal audit work programmes and considers reports from internal Corporate Social Responsibility and external auditors on the system of internal The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure control and any material control weaknesses.
It also that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and receives responses from management regarding the responsible manner, which protects the environment actions taken on issues identied in audit reports.
as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers and the communities in which it operates.
These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and manage responsibly environmental, health and safety risks through implementation of a comprehensive Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management System that standardises best operating practices, objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, performance indicators and goals.
These policies are set out in more detail on pages 46 to 50.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Corporate Governance continued Pensions The assets of the UK dened-benefit pension fund are controlled by trustees: they are held separately from the assets of the Company and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company including the Finance Director of the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Group complies and has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 with all of the Provisions of the Code with the exception that the Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive Directors and the Directors believe that to achieve this balance would cause the Board to be unwieldy and accordingly the Company has not complied during the year ended 31 December 2007 with such provision.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 6 March 2008 44 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction 46 Health and Safety 46 Equal Opportunities 47 The Environment 47 Social Responsibility 50 Business Ethics 50
