Corporate governance Statement of compliance easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate governance.
During the year it has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code of 2003.
Board of Directors As at 30 September 2007, the Board comprised eight Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Andrew Harrison are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, Dawn Airey, Diederik Karsten and John Browett who was appointed in September 2007 as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou is not regarded as independent due to his significant beneficial shareholding in the Company and his prior involvement in an executive management capacity.
There are matters which are reserved to the Board by virtue of a resolution of the Board.
These include matters relating to share issues, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, connected party transactions, borrowings and guarantees, material contracts, capital expenditure, shareholder and investor relations, officers and employees, treasury policies, risk management policies, donations, litigation, strategy, internal control, budgets, accounting issues and authority levels.
By resolution, the Board has delegated certain authorities to management.
This delegation covers areas such as finance expenditure, treasury and the sale of assets, revenue management, customer compensation, contracts, leases, employment and business development.
The delegation is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
Sir David Michels has also made himself available to participate in investor meetings as an alternative point of contact and in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
This direct contact, together with feedback from management and from the Companys two corporate brokers ABN Amro and Credit Suisse, is used to brief the Board.
In addition, the Board has sought direct feedback from sources that are independent of easyJet.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chairman to be the primary conduit with investors given his experience in liaising with shareholders over the past few years.
During the year, the Chairman has updated the whole Board on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
However, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
The Board meets regularly, with 11 meetings having been held during the year ended 30 September 2007.
All members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
Number of meetings Total number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 11 11 Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 11 11 Andrew Harrison 11 11 Jeff Carr 11 11 Dawn Airey 10 11 Diederik Karsten 10 11 David Bennett 10 11 Professor Rigas Doganis 10 11 Sir David Michels 911 John Browett appointed 27 September 2007 The Chairman discusses governance and strategy with major shareholders when required and communicates the results of these discussions to the Board.
If a major shareholder requests the attendance of a specific Non-Executive Director at a meeting they will be made available.
It is standard practice for the Chairman to meet and confer with other Non-Executive Directors prior to each scheduled Board meeting without the Executive Directors present.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
They have access to appropriate independent professional advice, resources and other services as they see fit to discharge their duties.
The Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee also have access to sufficient resources to allow them to undertake their duties effectively.
All Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
easyJet plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures have been complied with.
The Board has agreed that the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter to be decided by itself.
During the course of the year, Giles Pemberton held the office of Company Secretary.
Directors and officers insurance cover exists for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions as an officer of easyJet.
During the course of the year, the Board approved additional indemnity and funding protection in favour of each of its current directors and future directors to the extent permitted by applicable law.
During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the Board using an external evaluation framework.
The process involved structured interviews with Directors and management.
The Chairman has also reviewed the performance of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees and also that of the individual Board Directors.
Separately, Sir David Michels has met during the year with the other Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one third of the Directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The Directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three year period.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for re-election.
Executive Directors are not appointed for specific terms.
However, in practice each Director will normally serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one third of the Board at each AGM.
It is now the Companys standard policy to engage with new Non-Executive Directors on contractual terms based upon the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA standard letter of appointment as appended to the Combined Code.
During the year, new letters of appointment were executed by each Non-Executive Director based upon the ICSA standard document, with the exception of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou who does not receive a fee from the Company and does not have a letter of appointment.
Remuneration Committee At 30 September 2007, the Remuneration Committee comprised at least three independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Sir David Michels Committee Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and Dawn Airey.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has met twice during the year.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, www.
The key terms set out that the Remuneration Committee will: Seek to provide the packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required without paying more than is necessary: Judge where to position easyJet relative to other companies, taking account of what comparable companies are paying and relative performance: Determine the terms of any compensation package in the event of early termination of any Executive Directors contract in accordance with its terms: Make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost: and Determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment for Executive Directors.
The record of attendance is: Number of meetings Total number attended of meetings Dawn Airey 22 David Bennett 22 Professor Rigas Doganis 22 Sir David Michels 22 By invitation: Sir Colin Chandler 11 Andrew Harrison 11 Shareholders are required to approve all new long term incentive plans.
Further details of these plans can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
easyJet plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2007 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
During the year, the Audit Committee members were David Bennett Chairman, Sir David Michels and Diederik Karsten.
This Committee meets at least three times per year.
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting that management and the Board have established and reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
The Audit Committee has met three times during the course of the year.
The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, approving and monitoring the Internal Audit work plan, considering issues arising from Internal Audits work, reviewing managements response to internal control issues, approving the external audit fee, considering the external audit strategy and plans, reviewing the external auditors reports and reviewing and approving the annual accounts.
Both internal and external auditors are given the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any member of management present.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The terms of reference have been reviewed and updated recently in line with changes made to the ICSA model terms of reference for audit committees.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website www.
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal financial control system: Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, financial and senior management, and the Board: Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the management responses to the recommendations.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external auditors.
 LLP were reappointed auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting, held in March 2007.
In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the auditor will not be asked to provide consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The auditor is asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that it has taken to ensure its independence.
easyJet monitors the auditors performance and behaviour during the exercise of its duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.6 million with  LLP 2006: 0.5 million in respect of non-audit services and 2.4million 2006: 1.0 million with other parties who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who were members of this Committee during the year were those who were best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
David Bennett has served as the Chairman of the Committee during the year.
Until the middle of this financial year, David was the Group Finance Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, a major FTSE 100 company: experience which the Board considers to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role as Chairman of the Committee.
The record of attendance is: Number of meetings Total number attended of meetings David Bennett 33 Diederik Karsten 33 Sir David Michels 23 By invitation: Andrew Harrison 33 Jeff Carr 33 easyJet plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
During the year, the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and Dawn Airey.
Sir Colin Chandler is not considered to be independent as he is Chairman of the Group.
However, the Board is satisfied that Sir Colin Chandlers personal integrity and experience makes him a highly effective member of the Board and the Nominations Committee.
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use an external recruitment agency.
The Nominations Committee has met once during the year.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms are as follows: To consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman of the Board, the making of any appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether of Executive or Non-Executive Directors: and To establish and carry out a formal selection process of candidates and provide advice and recommendations to the Board or Chairman as appropriate on any such appointment.
Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include details of the time commitments expected in the role.
On joining the Board, new board members receive a full and tailored induction.
Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Non-Executive Directors.
Contracts with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
The record of attendance is: Number of meetings Total number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 11 Dawn Airey 11 David Bennett 11 Professor Rigas Doganis 11 Before the appointment of Sir Colin Chandler to the Board in 2002, his significant other commitments were disclosed to the Board.
Sir Colin continues to have significant commitments outside of easyJet, including the post of Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
The Board has considered this and has decided that these commitments do not represent an impediment to proper performance of his role as Chairman of easyJet.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations department to facilitate engagement with investors.
It is the Companys policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGMs: All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM: Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue, including approval of the annual report and accounts: The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the meetings: and It is the Companys intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before that meeting.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal process established to identify, evaluate, manage and report upon significant risks faced by the Company is operated by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Audit Committee.
The process involves a rigorous mandatory reporting regime across middle tier management with reporting of risks subject to review by a cross-functional executive committee which produces detailed risk reports to the Board.
This process has operated throughout the year and during the period from the year end to the signing of the financial statements.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
easyJet plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2007 Early in the year, the internal control regime was enhanced by the creation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by a specialist external third party service provider and allows employees to report concerns in confidence on a no names basis.
The Audit Committee approved the processes and reporting structure for the new function and receives regular reports on the operation of the function.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Company Directors and has been adopted as follows: Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and environmental risks.
The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to review safety performance.
In addition, there are regular Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings.
The Executive Management Team meets monthly to consider significant current risks.
Individual department and overall business performance is reviewed.
The reporting of significant risks to the Executive Management Team and the Board of the Company has been enhanced by the new risk management processes referred to above.
Written reporting of current significant risks is provided to the Board on a monthly basis.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise.
easyJet has had an Internal Audit function since 1 October 2006 which considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group.
The function was strengthened during the year.
Further details of the internal audit functions operations are set out below.
Comprehensive operational risk reviews are also performed to help improve risk management.
A fatigue control assessment was completed in 2005, which resulted in implementation of a fatigue risk management plan which has significantly improved easyJets safety performance above industry standards.
An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are also identified.
Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified.
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors: and The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high level risks are effectively controlled.
Internal Audit In response to the continued growth in the Companys size and the consequent increase in the complexity of its operations, the Board approved the creation of an Internal Audit function.
This came into effect at the start of the financial year.
The new Internal Audit Function is a central element in our approach to risk management and this change reflects the importance we place on the internal control processes within easyJet.
Internal Audit's work is focused on areas of greatest risk to easyJet, as determined by managements risk identification and assessment processes as validated by Executive Directors.
The output from this process is summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Board and Audit Committee, and updated on a rolling bi-annual basis.
The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Group Finance Director and has direct access to meet with the Chairman of the Audit Committee without the presence of management.
The Head of Internal Audit has been invited and attended all of the Audit Committee meetings in the year.
A formal audit charter is in place.
Role of Internal Audit The Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which systems of internal control: are effective: are adequate to manage the easyJets significant risks: and safeguard the Companys assets.
The key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior management: and to assist the Board with meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
easyJet plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2007
