Our governance Directors report Corporate governance The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate The following sets out a description of how the Company has complied governance are maintained by Emap.
with the provisions recommended by the Code.
The Board confirms that, other than in respect of the exceptions Directors detailed below, the Company has, throughout the period under review, The Board complied with the provisions recommended by the 2003 version of the The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Company.
Its role is to provide continuous effective leadership and to Council the Code.
The Code was revised with effect from ensure appropriate controls are in place to assess, manage and 1 November 2006 and the revised Code applies to Emap with effect monitor risk and operational and financial performance.
It is responsible from 1 April 2007. for setting the Companys strategic aims and ensuring the appropriate financial and human resources are in place to achieve the Companys The exceptions referred to above are explained on page 50 and objectives.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing managements relate to the fact that contrary to B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 of the Code, from performance and setting the Companys values and standards.
The 1 April 2006 to 13 July 2006, the former Chairman was a member Directors act in the best interests of the Company, mindful of their duties of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee and that to shareholders but also with consideration of other stakeholders.
from 13 July 2006, upon his appointment as Chairman, Alun Cathcart remained a member of the Remuneration Committee only, standing The Board meets regularly at least nine times each year, with down from the Audit Committee.
Under the terms of the revised 2006 additional meetings being held as and when necessary.
Board papers Code, the Chairman is permitted to sit on the Remuneration Committee are circulated to Directors in advance of each meeting.
The Board and it was thought unnecessary to require Mr Cathcart to stand down holds a strategy meeting once a year, at which it considers the future from membership of the Remuneration Committee only to re-join it direction of the Group.
Further details of issues under current several months later.
discussion can be found in the section headed Our strategy on pages 6 to 32.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive On 17 May 2007, by mutual agreement, Tom Moloney resigned as Directors annually, with the Chairman leading these meetings.
The Group Chief Executive, and stood down from the Board.
Alun Cathcart, independent Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, without the Non-Executive Chairman, was appointed interim Executive Chairman Chairman in attendance, to assess Board balance and independence and will fulfil the role of Chief Executive until a permanent appointment and to monitor whether any one individual has unfettered powers of is made.
A formal and transparent search for a new Group Chief decision.
The Senior Independent Director SID chairs this meeting.
Executive, using external search consultants, is underway.
In addition to this, the SID is available at any time to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the The Board acknowledges that the combination of the roles of Chairman, the Group Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director Chairman and Group Chief Executive breaches A.
2.1 of the Code has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
which requires that there should be a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
As detailed below, Emap normally separates The Board Manual incorporates a formal schedule of matters that can the roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, setting out their only be decided by the Board.
The schedule of reserved matters responsibilities clearly, and confirms the roles would be separated again requires that the Board approves, among other things: on the appointment of a permanent Group Chief Executive.
all half year and final results: In the interests of continuity, the Board feels it is appropriate for the the Companys dividend policy: Chairman to fulfil the role of Chief Executive until a permanent appointment is made and is confident the independence and strength all matters relating to the Groups commercial strategy: of its Non-Executive Directors is sufficient to ensure the Chairman the annual budget: does not have unfettered powers of decision.
Mr Cathcart will remain a member of the Remuneration Committee but will not take part in any all major capital projects, investments and contractual discussions or decisions concerning his own remuneration.
commitments: the overall review of the Companys corporate governance The Company applies the Principles of the Code through its own arrangements: and behaviour, by monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies including the the setting of the Companys values and standards.
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
The Boards The Board delegates its authority for certain clearly defined matters to policies and procedures are documented in a board manual Board management who exercise that authority primarily through the two Manual which sets out the roles and delegated authorities applying Divisional Boards: the Emap Communications Board and the Emap to Directors and the Groups Main and Divisional Boards.
The Board Consumer Media Board.
These Divisional Boards are responsible to Manual is updated whenever necessary, and formally submitted for the Main Board for divisional strategy, financial forecasts and budgets, approval by the Board on an annual basis.
capital investments, day-to-day operational management and for 48 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Attendance of Board members at Board and Committee meetings during the period under review is set out below: Main Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held: 13 3 4 8 Number attended: Executive Directors 1 Tom Moloney 13 n a 4 n a Ian Griffiths 12 n a n a n a Paul Keenan 12 n a n a n a 2 Derek Carter 8 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 3 Adam Broadbent 411 2 4 Alun Cathcart Chairman 1214 7 Rita Clifton 1234 6 Pierre Danon 1013 6 Andrew Harrison 12 3 4 7 5 Jonathan Howell 1 6 Karen Jones 311 1 David Rough SID 1224 8 1 4 Resigned as Group Chief Executive on 17 May 2007.
Appointed as Chairman on 13 July 2006.
Appointed interim Executive Chairman 2 Appointed to the Board on 4 September 2006. on 17 May 2007.
3 5 Retired as Chairman on 13 July 2006.
Appointed to the Board on 12 March 2007.
6 Retired on 13 July 2006. maintaining a sound system of internal control.
They have clearly Board Manual and are summarised below.
On 17 May 2007, by mutual defined levels of delegated authority covering expenditure and agreement, Tom Moloney resigned as Group Chief Executive and investment which are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
stood down from the Board.
Alun Cathcart was appointed interim Executive Chairman and will fulfil the role of Chief Executive.
The rationale for this decision is disclosed above.
Other responsibilities are delegated to the four Committees of the Board: the Audit Committee: Chairman the Nomination Committee: leadership of the Main Board and conduct of Board meetings the Remuneration Committee: and ensuring information flow the Treasury Committee.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, The Board sets the terms of reference for these Committees, which are and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and formally documented and are available on request from the Company Non-Executive Directors Secretary, both at the Companys registered office, and on the Companys website, www.
Although Committee meetings are not closed to non-member Directors, no Director can attend meetings where Group Chief Executive he could have a conflict of interest.
Further details of each Committees Group strategy activities are described later in this section on page 52. rights of referral of previously delegated matters from the Divisional For the terms of reference for the Board Committees Boards to the Main Board go to www.
com remuneration of senior management attending the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees If Directors are unable to attend a meeting they are encouraged to provide feedback on the relevant papers beforehand to the Chairman, membership of the Treasury Committee the relevant Committee Chairman, the Group Chief Executive or the Company Secretary, as they see fit.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive approval of the level of Non-Executive Director fees During the year under review and until 17 May 2007, the roles of setting the agenda of Board meetings Chairman and Group Chief Executive were separately held, with the Chairman having responsibility for the running of the Board whilst the ensuring the Model Code is applied correctly with regards Group Chief Executive had executive responsibility for the Companys to Director dealings operations.
Their respective responsibilities are clearly set out in the 49 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Corporate governance continued Board balance and independence The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors contribute external The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year, expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such together with the Committees on which they sat, are detailed above as marketing, consumer business, customer focus, corporate finance, and biographical details of the current Directors are shown on pages general finance, corporate governance and international business.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations in relation to the development of strategy and operational and financial performance.
It is the Boards opinion that all those At the date of the Annual Report, at least half of the Board excluding Non-Executive Directors who served throughout the period under the Chairman consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors review, together with the Chairman as at the date of his appointment, in accordance with the Principles of the Code, as was the case were independent in accordance with the Code.
throughout the year under review.
Currently the Board is made up of: The Board The Board considered Jonathan Howells independence when appointing him to the Board.
Mr Howells wife is a partner of Ernst Executive Directors & Young LLP Ernst & Young, Emaps preferred provider for Alun Cathcart interim Executive Chairman acquisition due diligence.
The Board considers Mr Howell to be Ian Griffiths Group Finance Director independent for the following reasons: Derek Carter Chief Executive, Emap Communications Paul Keenan Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media Mr Howells wife does not work in the relevant department of Ernst & Young: Non-Executive Directors Rita Clifton Emaps information is ring-fenced within the relevant department of Ernst & Young: Pierre Danon Andrew Harrison the fees paid to Ernst & Young are not material in terms of the Jonathan Howell Groups external spend: and David Rough SID the Board of Directors is not involved in the appointment of Ernst & Young on a day-to-day basis.
Should any such debate reach the Main Board, Mr Howell would be open to withdraw During the year under review and to the date of this Annual Report, the from the debate.
changes that were made to the Board to achieve the membership set out above were: Appointments to the Board There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment The Board of new Directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is Resignations delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process Adam Broadbent as Chairman and Director on 13 July 2006 was followed during the year under review when Jonathan Howell was Karen Jones as Director on 13 July 2006 appointed as a new Board member on 12 March 2007.
This process Tom Moloney as Group Chief Executive and Director on 17 May 2007 began with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on the Board, effected through a series of Appointments meetings between the Committee Chairman, representing the views Alun Cathcart as Chairman on 13 July 2006 and interim Executive Chairman of the Board, and an external search consultant.
A description of the on 17 May 2007 role and capabilities required was prepared and a list of candidates Derek Carter as Director on 4 September 2006 identified.
A shortlist met with the Chairman and a further shortlist Jonathan Howell as Director on 12 March 2007 then met with the Group Chief Executive, the SID and a selection of Non-Executive Directors.
Following these meetings, the Nomination Committee formally met to finalise a recommendation to the Board.
The Board believes that strength of character and independence of The Board is satisfied with Mr Howells independence for the reasons judgement and opinion are more important than absolute numbers on detailed above, believes that his breadth and depth of experience both the Board and it is satisfied that no individual or group has unfettered in financial and UK plc board matters have been and will continue to powers of decision or unequal access to information.
As detailed above, be a great asset to the Company and recommends his reappointment for periods of the year under review, the membership of the Audit and to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Remuneration Committees was not compliant with the Principles of the Code.
The Board believes that the transparency of its Committees On 4 September 2006, Derek Carter, Chief Executive of Emap activities to all Directors is in the interests of shareholders.
It ensures Communications, was appointed as an Executive Director.
The Board a good flow of information among all Board members and thereby believes that Mr Carter brings breadth and depth of experience in enhances the efficiency of the Board and strengthens the Companys both operational matters and strategic thinking and recommends his corporate governance framework by creating an even balance of power reappointment to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
and influence throughout the Board.
The Board actively encourages all Non-Executive Directors to become members of its principal Committees and at present, all are members of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
50 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance As part of the Boards orderly succession planning, Alun Cathcart The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on matters was promoted to Chairman upon Adam Broadbents retirement at concerning governance and ensures Board procedures are complied the conclusion of the 2006 AGM.
Mr Cathcart was identified as the with.
All Directors have access to his advice and during the year under potential future Chairman when he was appointed as a Non-Executive review this was sought in relation to share dealing.
The Board believes that Mr Cathcart has broad also exists for Directors to take independent professional advice at public company experience and a strong strategic insight, which has the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
proved to be of great value to the Group.
In addition to his role as The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary and his Chairman of Emap plc, Mr Cathcart is also Chairman of Palletways remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
Nick Folland, Group Ltd and Avis Europe plc.
The Board believes that Mr Cathcart who served as the Company Secretary during the year under review, continues to be able to dedicate the time required to effectively carry resigned on 19 April 2007.
A formal and transparent process is out his duties and responsibilities as Chairman of the Company.
currently underway to appoint a new Company Secretary.
During the interim period the Board has appointed the Assistant Company On 17 May 2007, by mutual agreement, the Group Chief Executive, Secretary as Company Secretary.
Tom Moloney, resigned from the Board with immediate effect.
Alun Cathcart was appointed interim Executive Chairman and will Performance evaluation fulfil the role of Chief Executive until a permanent appointment is It is the Companys policy to formally appraise the Board as a whole made.
External search consultants have been engaged and a formal and its principal Committees at least annually.
During the 2006 and transparent search is underway for Mr Moloneys successor.
financial year the Board was not formally appraised due to the number of Board changes that were effected.
This approach was also followed The terms and conditions of appointment of each Director will be in the 2007 financial year to allow for the smooth transition of the available for inspection at the AGM, and are also available during change in Chairmanship to take full effect.
A full Board appraisal will be normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
conducted in the year to 31 March 2008.
As far as individual Directors are concerned, each is subject to a formal appraisal prior to being During the year under review, the Board conducted its annual people proposed for reappointment by shareholders.
Each Director is also review focused upon Emaps senior management team and high subject to a formal appraisal at the completion of their first year of potential talent, led by the Groups Human Resources Director.
As a consequence, Ian Griffiths was appraised during the year review was designed to ensure the necessary leadership resources under review following the completion of his first year of service and are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Pierre Danon and Derek Carter have been given appraisals ahead of their proposed reappointment at this years AGM.
In addition, all Directors are subject to an informal appraisal by the Chairman where Information and professional development deemed necessary.
The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, with all Board and Each of the Companys Executive Directors is also subject to an Committee papers being issued in advance of meetings.
In addition annual appraisal of their performance as executives.
This is conducted to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular contact with by the Group Chief Executive or, in his case, by the Chairman.
the Executive Directors to discuss specific issues.
To ensure there is no over-reliance on the opinions of the Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive takes responsibility for ensuring frequent contact Reappointment between the Directors and senior management of the Companys Any Director joining the Board after the previous AGM has to retire operating divisions.
The operating divisions senior management teams and seek reappointment at the next AGM.
In addition, the Companys present to the Board on a regular basis and a series of opportunities Articles require that any Director who has held office for three years or exists throughout the year for informal contact.
Directors are free to more must retire at the AGM three years after his last reappointment.
meet individual members of the senior management team and have At the AGM to be held on 12 July 2007, Derek Carter and Jonathan done so during the year under review.
Throughout the year, Directors Howell will each offer themselves for reappointment in accordance with are encouraged to attend Emap events, exhibitions and awards.
Article 84 of the Companys Articles.
Mr Carter has received an appraisal of his performance as Director but, because he will only have The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its served on the Board for a short time, Mr Howell has not received such Directors, the identification of general training needs is best left to an appraisal.
Pierre Danon will also retire by rotation under Article 84 their individual discretion.
If any particular requirement is identified and offer himself for reappointment, having received an appraisal of his through the Boards formal appraisal processes or by an individual conduct as Director as set out above.
Director, the Company makes the necessary resources available.
On joining the Board, all Non-Executive Directors are provided with a full induction programme including financial training, site visits and meetings with senior management.
Major shareholders and the Groups advisers are provided with opportunities to meet with new Non-Executive Directors.
This process is supported by briefing papers prepared by the Company Secretary in accordance with ICSAs guidelines.
51 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Corporate governance continued Board Committees The composition, role and main activities of the Boards principal Committees during the year under review are outlined below: Composition Role Activities Alun Cathcart Chairman The Nomination Committees primary purpose Reviewed the composition of the Board and is to maintain the balance and effectiveness of undertook succession planning, including Rita Clifton the Board, identify those skills needed and the the appointment of Derek Carter as an Pierre Danon individuals who might best perform them.
The Executive Board member and Alun Cathcart as Andrew Harrison Committee monitors the Board structure, size Chairman, and led the process for the Tom Moloney and composition and also leads the process for appointment of Jonathan Howell as a David Rough nominating individuals for election to the Board Non-Executive Director.
Jonathan Howell became a member on see Appointments to the Board on page 50.
Adam Broadbent and In making appointments, the Committee Karen Jones were members until they stood considers the capabilities required from down on 13 July 2006.
With the exception potential candidates such as an individuals of Alun Cathcart and Tom Moloney, all were independence of mind and, where a Nonconsidered independent Non-Executive Executive appointment is being made, the time Directors as prescribed by the Code.
available to fulfil the role.
The Committee always uses professional, independent external search consultants when making Non-Executive Director appointments.
David Rough Chairman The role of the Remuneration Committee Reviewed Executive Directors salary and is described in the Remuneration report bonus levels: made the 2006 bonus awards Alun Cathcart on page 57. and set the financial criteria and Executive Rita Clifton Directors objectives for the 2007 bonus Pierre Danon awards: reviewed the Performance Related Andrew Harrison Pay Plan and considered revisions: and Jonathan Howell became a member on discussed incentive payments made to the 22 March 2007.
Adam Broadbent and French executives following the sale of Karen Jones were members until they stood Emap France.
With the exception of Alun Cathcart, all are considered independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
Andrew Harrison Chairman The Committee, which meets at least Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups three times a year, is responsible for: internal control system: addressed matters Rita Clifton monitoring the integrity of the Companys such as year end accounting and audit issues: Pierre Danon financial statements: reviewing internal considered taxation issues and risks, the David Rough financial controls and internal control and Companys shared service centre, the Jonathan Howell became a member on risk management systems: monitoring restructuring of the internal audit function 22 March 2007.
All are considered and reviewing the effectiveness of the and the review of the annual audit plan: independent Non-Executive Directors as Companys internal audit function: making reassessed the Groups IT risks: reviewed prescribed by the Code.
Adam Broadbent recommendations to the Board concerning the the Groups tax and treasury strategies and and Karen Jones were members until they appointment of the Groups external auditors policies: and reviewed the Groups policy stood down on 13 July 2006.
Alun Cathcart including their remuneration and terms of on the provision of non-audit services.
stood down from the Committee on 13 July engagement : reviewing and monitoring the 2006 upon assuming his role as Chairman.
external auditors independence: and The Board is satisfied that the Committee implementing the Companys policy on the Chairman holds appropriate recent and engagement of the Companys auditors to relevant financial experience to fulfil his duties.
The Board delegates various operational Amended the terms of the 500m syndicated Andrew Harrison Chairman matters relating to banking and treasury to revolving credit facility, extending the term by Ian Griffiths the Treasury Committee.
These operational two years to 2011.
Tom Moloney matters are clearly defined in the Groups David Rough treasury policies, which are regularly reviewed by the Board and included in the Board Manual.
Matters delegated include debt funding, and investment, hedging, and banking arrangements.
By mutual agreement, Tom Moloney resigned as Group Chief Executive and stepped down from the Board and all its Committees on 17 May 2007.
52 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Treasury Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Our governance The Audit Committee and auditors As the Companys auditors are prevented from providing prohibited At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Companys Chairman, services, competitive tender processes are run as thought appropriate, Executive Directors, senior management, including the Head of with PwC being prohibited from participating.
As a result of previous Internal Audit, and the Companys auditors,  reviews, Ernst & Young are Emaps preferred provider of transaction LLP PwC may attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee support for acquisitions, due diligence, post-acquisition balance sheet also meets with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the Companys reviews, internal audit, forensic accounting and investigation services: auditors separately and, in the absence of management, as necessary New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC provide remuneration and, at a minimum, at least annually.
consultancy services: and the Company maintains an independent and transparent panel of legal advisers comprised of six legal firms that excludes PwC.
The Companys auditors are also prohibited from Auditor independence providing human resource and information technology advisory The Committee monitors the Companys safeguards against services.
compromising the external auditors objectivity and independence by: Provision of potential services by the Groups auditors is subject to performing an annual review of non-audit services provided to the ongoing review and monitoring by the Audit Committee.
The mandate Group and their cost: to provide one such service, tax advice, was previously awarded to reviewing whether the auditors believe there are any relationships PwC following a rigorous and formal tender process.
As PwC are that may affect their independence: and also the Companys auditors, the Committee has introduced further safeguards and controls by pre-approving set levels of fee expenditure obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that they are above which the engagement of PwC for further tax-related work independent.
has to be referred back to it, or to the Main Board.
In accordance with the guidance contained in the Smith Report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance, Emap also ensures the Fees charged by the Companys auditors in respect of non-audit continued independence of its audit firm through the rotation of the services require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except lead audit partner every five years.
As a result, a new lead audit partner where: the fees charged do not exceed 10% of the most recent audit was appointed with effect from the end of the audit of the 2006 fee or 125,000 whichever is the greater and the value of the financial year.
transaction under review does not exceed 10m: or the auditors are acting as Emaps reporting accountants, in which case the fees are For the year ended 31 March 2007, the Committee advised the Board deemed to have been pre-approved.
All fees deemed to have been that the current level and nature of non-audit services provided by the pre-approved are subsequently ratified by the Audit Committee.
Companys auditors which are fully disclosed in Note 5 on page 80 did not affect their independence and objectivity.
System of internal control The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the Groups Policy on the provision of non-audit services by auditors system of internal control and for regularly monitoring its effectiveness During the year, the Committee has continued to monitor the to the Audit Committee.
The control system is intended to manage Companys procedures for maintaining and safeguarding the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic independence of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys objectives and any such system can only provide reasonable, and not formal policy concerning the provision of non-audit services identifies absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board three categories of accounting services: and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance audit-related services, which the Companys auditors provide controls and risk management in accordance with the Code for the such as half year and full year reporting : period from 1 April 2006 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review, prohibited services, which the Companys auditors may never however had there been, the Board confirms that necessary actions provide such as acquisition due diligence and consultancy on would have been taken to remedy them.
major change projects : and potential services, which the Companys auditors may in certain circumstances provide, subject to tender and fee constraints such as tax advisory services.
53 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Corporate governance continued The Company operates a continuous process of identifying, The Company has in place arrangements for staff to raise, in evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The confidence, any concerns that they might have over financial reporting risk framework includes issues relating to the following matters: and other matters.
Details of these arrangements are set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The Committee regularly strategic: reviews these arrangements, at least annually, and remains satisfied that it incorporates arrangements for the investigation of matters raised financial: and for appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
operational: The internal control environment will continue to be monitored and systems: reviewed by the Committee which will, where necessary, ensure people: and improvements are implemented.
Associated undertakings are not treated as part of the Group for the purposes of the internal control review.
Internal audit The process, which has been in place throughout the year and up to The Committee receives detailed reports from the Head of Internal the date of approval of this Annual Report, and which complies with Audit which identify any significant risk and compliance issues and the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005, includes the management plans in place to address them.
The Committee reviews following controls: the scope and activities of the internal audit function to ensure they are appropriate to the key risks facing the Group and sufficient to assess defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation of the effectiveness and adequacy of the Groups material operational authority: and financial controls, systems and practices.
The internal audit formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear function assists the Committee in meeting its governance and guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: regulatory responsibilities and assists management by enhancing the control environment.
clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production Relations with shareholders and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management The Board attaches considerable importance to the Companys information: relationships and communications with shareholders.
Under the the control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels guidance of the Investor Relations Director, communication with major and proper segregation of accounting duties: institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained through a programme of news releases, presentations and meetings.
a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment of the principal The Chairman and the SID are available for meetings with principal financial and IT controls across business units, with the evaluation shareholders.
The Chairman and SID also attend the Companys half of risk forming an integral part of this assessment: year and final results presentations.
The Company also discusses a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an annual major remuneration and long-term incentive proposals with principal budget approved by the Board, review of monthly variances against shareholders prior to any required shareholder approval or adoption.
budget at title product, Divisional and Group levels with, where This communication programme is designed to ensure a thorough necessary, corrective action supplemented by quarterly forecasting understanding by the investment community of the Groups business, of annual performance: its key performance indicators and its strategy.
a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment, for the evaluation The Board places importance on understanding shareholder views of the effectiveness of procedures and controls in relation to and messages and believes the best way to achieve this is through compliance risk: independent, unattributed feedback, which is regularly provided by the identification of key operational risks and development of mitigation Companys stockbrokers.
The feedback provided to the Board details plans by the Divisional Boards reported on an ongoing basis: key analyst and shareholder meetings and ensures shareholders views and messages are clearly understood and communicated, regular reviews of both forward-looking and historic key unedited, to the Board as a whole.
The Board additionally welcomes performance indicators: and encourages the participation of all shareholders at the Companys provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, AGM, at which all Directors who are able to attend are available both timely information based on solid management information systems formally during the meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions.
which are continually being improved and updated: and Committee Chairmen also ordinarily attend the Companys AGM to respond to shareholder questions.
regular reports to the Board from the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Executive Directors.
54 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Additional information Principal activities and future developments Directors responsibilities for the preparation The Company and its subsidiary undertakings have activities in: of financial statements consumer magazines and digital media: trade events, information The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each products and publications: commercial radio: and music TV.
A review financial year which present fairly the state of affairs of the Company of the businesses activities during the year and future prospects and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the income, are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Business review total recognised income and expense and cash flows of the Group for on pages 6 to 45. that period.
The Directors confirm that appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that reasonable judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial Business review statements for the year ended 31 March 2007, and that they give, to The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, the the best of their knowledge, a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Business review contains a fair review of the development and financial position and profit or loss of the Group and its undertakings.
performance of the business and position of the Company and the The Directors also confirm that the financial statements have been Group, together with a description of the principal risks and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and uncertainties that it faces.
Details of these principal risks and all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors uncertainties can be found on page 23. are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and the Results and dividends investment of shareholders.
They also take reasonable steps to prevent 31 March 2007 2006 and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Profit for the year 327m 126m The Directors are confident that, so far as they are aware, there Interim dividend 8.9p per share 8.6p per share is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Final dividend 22.1p per share 21.4p per share unaware.
The Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have Total dividend 31.0p per share 30.0p per share taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid on This Annual Report, together with other financial information, 30 July 2007 to members on the register on 29 June 2007. presentations and announcements, is available on the Companys website, www.
The Directors are responsible for the Voting and share capital maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the Companys Details of all changes to the Companys voting and share capital structure website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation during the year under review are shown in Note 28 on page 96.
The and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is Directors confirm that no person has any special rights of control over available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may the Companys share capital.
At 22 May 2007 the Company had been be different.
notified of the following major interests in its ordinary shares: Going concern basis Number % of share % of voting Shareholder of shares capital capital The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Aberdeen Asset Management plc 10,603,920 4.91 4.91 foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going Barclays Global Investors 8,047,673 3.73 3.73 concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Legal and General Group plc 7,606,614 3.52 3.52 Newton Investment Directors interests Management Limited 6,992,664 3.24 3.24 A statement of Directors interests in the ordinary share and voting Schroders plc 14,936,426 6.92 6.92 capital of the Company appears in the Remuneration report on Silchester International pages 64 to 66.
In the year under review, no Director had any interest Investors Limited 8,741,380 4.05 4.05 in any other share capital of the Company or any other Group company, nor did any Director have a material interest in any contract of Denotes an indirect interest.
55 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Additional information continued Directors and officers indemnity and insurance Creditor payment policy The Company maintains insurance cover with respect to Directors Although the Company does not follow a standard payment policy, and officers liabilities which provides appropriate cover in respect it does recognise the benefits to be derived from maintaining good of potential legal actions brought against its Directors.
At its last relationships with its suppliers.
The Company therefore ensures that AGM, shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles payments are made on time, provided suppliers perform in accordance which enabled it to indemnify Directors and officers to the extent with terms agreed at the time of engagement.
Trade creditors at the permitted by law.
year end represented 11 days 2006: 21 days of purchases.
As at the date of the Annual Report, no indemnities have been granted Annual General Meeting to the Companys Directors over and above the protection provided The 60th AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn, by its Articles.
Coram Street, London WC1N 1HT on 12 July 2007.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be proposed.
The resolutions are set out Donations in the Notice of Meeting, which was sent to shareholders with the The Group has not made any political donations during the year under Annual Report and includes a letter from the Chairman explaining the review.
Details of the wide and varied community and charitable business to be transacted.
In September 2006, shareholders granted involvement of the Groups companies can be found in the section authority for the Company to purchase up to 21.58m ordinary shares.
headed Our responsibilities on pages 42 to 45 and on the Companys This authority was still valid as at 31 March 2007 and will expire website, www.
at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
The Company confirms that it complies with all the Code Principles concerning the Employees constructive use of its AGM.
It is the Groups aim that recruitment, training, development and promotion should be determined solely on skill, ability and other Auditors requirements relevant to a job and in accordance with the laws of the country concerned.
Disabled people are given the same consideration Following a recommendation of the Audit Committee to the Board, as others and, depending on their skills and abilities, will enjoy the a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors to the Company will be put same training, development and prospects as other staff.
Staff who to shareholders at the AGM.
The resolution to appoint PwC will become disabled during their employment with Emap will be retained propose that they hold office until the conclusion of the next general wherever possible and encouraged to develop their careers.
Further meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
A second information in respect of employee involvement and the workplace resolution will propose that the Directors be authorised to determine in general can be found in the section headed Our responsibilities the level of auditors remuneration.
on pages 42 to 45 and on the Companys website.
56 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Remuneration report The Directors present their Remuneration report for the year ended The Committee has access to advice provided by the Group Chief 31 March 2007.
This report will be submitted to shareholders at the Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the AGM on 12 July 2007 for approval.
Group Human Resources Director and external advisers.
During the year, Deloitte continued to serve as adviser to the Committee providing Changes to the Board of Emap plc general advice in connection with the Companys remuneration policy.
Deloitte also provided unrelated accounting and IT consulting services For details of changes to the Board in the period under review, please to the Company.
During the year, NBSC were appointed to review the see page 50 of Our governance.
Companys Executive reward scheme and undertake benchmarking of Executive Directors salaries.
The outcome of that review is set out On 17 May 2007, by mutual agreement, Tom Moloney resigned as on page 59.
Group Chief Executive, and stood down from the Board.
Discussions regarding the level of compensation paid to Mr Moloney are underway and This Remuneration report is produced in accordance with Schedule 7A full disclosure will be made in the Companys 2008 Remuneration report.
to the Companies Act 1985 introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and meets the requirements of the Listing Also on 17 May 2007, Alun Cathcart was appointed interim Executive Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
This Remuneration report contains Chairman and will fulfil the role of Chief Executive.
To reflect the change both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information subject in his responsibilities, Mr Cathcart will receive the equivalent of an to audit is set out in Notes 1, 2 and 3 in the Notes to the Remuneration annual salary of 568,250 until a permanent Group Chief Executive is report on pages 63 to 65 only.
The report also explains how the Board appointed.
Mr Cathcart will also receive a monthly allowance of 13,000 has applied the Principles of the Code as they relate to Directors in lieu of benefits in kind.
Mr Cathcart will be entitled to a cash bonus remuneration.
of a maximum of 50% of salary, based on his performance against the following three objectives: execution of the Group strategy: delivering Policy on Directors remuneration the 2008 operating profit targets: and retaining key talent and motivating Executive Directors the executive team.
Mr Cathcart will not participate in any of the Companys pension or share ownership plans.
The broad framework of executive remuneration is established by the Board.
It is the Boards policy to ensure that the total remuneration Remuneration Committee offered to Executive Directors is sufficient to attract, motivate and retain talented individuals key to the future success of the Company.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, chaired by David Rough, the authority to determine the specific remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In the latter When considering any proposed changes to individual elements of case, the Committee undertakes this task without the Chairmans Executive Directors pay the Committee takes account of the effect involvement.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level on levels of total remuneration.
In particular, the remuneration offered and structure of the remuneration of the members of the Companys to Executive Directors provides for a significant element of at-risk senior management.
The membership of the Committee throughout performance-related reward, the majority of which is dependent on the year is set out on page 52, and details of the number of Committee the achievement of demanding performance conditions, both short meetings held during the year and the attendance of the Committee and long-term and is designed to ensure the Executives are aligned members is detailed on page 49.
Full details of the Committees terms with the strategic objectives of the Company and committed to creating of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
The current policy aims to provide a balance between fixed and variable With the exception of Alun Cathcart from 13 July 2006 and compensation for each Executive Director.
The use of share-based Adam Broadbent until 13 July 2006, all Committee members are incentive plans is designed to align the long-term interests of Executive considered independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed Directors with those of shareholders and provide exceptional rewards by the Code.
57 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Remuneration report continued Directors are encouraged by the Companys remuneration policy to External appointments build a shareholding in the Company that is broadly equivalent to either Emap recognises that exposure of its Executive Directors to other their annual salary in the case of Executive Directors, or their fees in boards can broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive the case of Non-Executive Directors, within a three-year timeframe.
Directors are therefore allowed to accept one non-executive appointment subject to the Boards approval although none are The Committee intends that the general policy on remuneration currently held by the Executive Directors.
Any fees for such external described above will continue in future years.
The Committees appointments would be payable to the Company.
implementation of the Boards remuneration policy is described below.
It believes that the policy and its implementation are appropriate and Non-Executive Directors will ensure that remuneration packages attract and retain the right The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is proposed by the calibre of executive in a demanding marketplace.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans remuneration is proposed by the Group Chief Executive During the year, the Committee, with assistance from NBSC, following consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors and completed a detailed review of the Companys long-term incentive plans approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees are agreed on and, following consultation with the Companys major shareholders and a standard basis for Non-Executive Directors with additional fees other relevant organisations, including the National Association of payable for those holding the responsibility of chairing the Audit and Pension Funds and the Association of British Insurers, intends to Remuneration Committees.
recommend amendments to the Companys Performance Related Pay Plan.
Full details of the amendments are being submitted to shareholders On his appointment as Chairman of the Company, Alun Cathcarts fees with the AGM documentation and a summary of the proposed changes were increased to 200,000.
On 17 May, Mr Cathcart was appointed is included in the Performance-related rewards section.
interim Executive Chairman and will fulfil the role of Chief Executive.
The revisions to his remuneration package as a result of the change in Service contracts his responsibilities are disclosed on page 57.
There has been no increase Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors of the Company in the fees received by Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The are as follows: Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, nor do they have share options or participate in any Company Unexpired Potential Emap pension, share or incentive scheme.
Non-Executive Directors notice Contract term of termination are normally appointed for two three-year terms, subject to Board and period date contract payment shareholder approval of reappointment at least every three years.
Tom Moloney Six months 01.09.01 Rolling 12 months contract salary and A third and final term of up to three years may be considered benefits appropriate depending on circumstances and subject to Board and, if Ian Griffiths Six months 17.01.03 Rolling 12 months relevant, shareholder approval, but in any event subject to a particularly contract salary and rigorous review.
benefits Paul Keenan Six months 28.05.02 Rolling 12 months Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without contract salary and payment or compensation by either the Company or the Director benefits serving one months notice in writing.
The Non-Executive Directors all have standard letters of appointment in line with that recommended by Derek Carter Six months 19.11.02 Rolling 12 months contract salary and the Code.
These appointment letters are available for inspection at the benefits Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Companys AGM.
The period of notice is six months either way, with the Company able Implementation of remuneration policy for to pay remuneration, mainly potential salary and bonus, in lieu of that Executive Directors notice.
At termination other than for cause or voluntary resignation or Details of the key elements of Executive Directors salary, incentives similar reasons, the Company may make a payment to the Executive and share interests at 31 March 2007 are given on pages 63 to 66 in Director of up to the value of six months salary, pension contributions, the Notes to this report.
car allowance and medical benefits.
Where the Company makes a payment in lieu of notice, a Director will therefore effectively receive Total remuneration a maximum of 12 months salary and benefits on termination.
The In assessing the total level of remuneration for each Executive Director, Remuneration Committee believes that these arrangements strike the Committee will, on an annual basis and or when appropriate, seek a fair balance between the interests of shareholders and the need to professional external advice or take account of data published by provide suitable terms of employment to attract and retain the key leading compensation consultancy bodies.
executives upon whom the success of the Group depends.
58 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance The chart below shows the balance between the value of the fixed and Prior to the Governments introduction of new pensions regulations variable compensation received by the Executive Directors for the period in April 2006, the Committee reviewed the Groups pension from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 or, where applicable, for the arrangements for Executive Directors and other senior managers.
period of service as a Director during that period.
Under the Governments new regime, each individual has a pensions lifetime allowance LTA against which the total value of the benefits built up in his her pension fund is tested.
Mr Moloney and Mr Carter Percentage of total remuneration % were adversely affected by this change, as their pension savings plans Tom Moloney 91 8 exceeded the maximum.
To accommodate this, the Committee agreed Ian Griffiths 67 17 15 to provide them with an alternative to their retirement planning scheme Paul Keenan 70 14 14 by offering a cash alternative to the pension contributions the Company Derek Carter 68 21 8 would otherwise have made on their behalf.
This option will also be 0 25 50 75 100 made available in the future when any affected individuals pension Salary and pension Cash bonus savings reach 80% of the LTA, providing some scope for them to adopt Benefits in kind Performance-related rewards alternative savings arrangements whilst still leaving room for future growth in their plans.
This cash alternative is cost neutral for Emap and, Basic salary given the small number of individuals impacted, was the most efficient way for the Group to respond to the introduction of the LTA.
In determining basic salary, the Committee takes account of the level of basic salaries for similar positions within comparable companies in the Performance-related rewards media sector, individual performance and responsibility, and the level of pay awards elsewhere in the Group.
It is the Companys policy to pay Annual and long-term performance-related rewards are provided base salaries that are below the median of the market.
In addition to through the Senior Management Incentive Scheme SMIS and the basic salary, Executive Directors receive typical benefits in kind, Performance Related Pay Plan PRP and consist of an annual bonus principally a car allowance, private medical insurance and participation paid partly in deferred and matching shares and annual awards of in the Companys all employee share ownership plans.
Salaries for Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually or Annual bonus SMIS when an individual changes responsibility.
Following the benchmarking Potential awards for Executive Directors under the 2007 annual exercise conducted during the year by NBSC, the Committee bonus were based on the achievement of quantitative and qualitative determined that Ian Griffiths would receive a 3% increase in salary, in objectives.
In Tom Moloneys case the annual bonus was based wholly line with inflation, to 360,750, effective 1 April 2007.
The Committee on quantitative objectives.
Quantitative objectives were based on also determined that following the review of the benchmarking data, performance against corporate financial targets which included and to reflect the size and importance of their roles, Derek Carter and underlying revenue and profit growth.
These targets were subject to Paul Keenan would each receive an increase of 15% with effect from two further overriding numerical thresholds for the Groups profit into 1 April 2007, to 325,750. cash conversion rate and pre-tax profit.
Qualitative objectives for the Executive Directors reporting to Mr Moloney are recommended by Pensions the Group Chief Executive and approved by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis.
Throughout the year under review, each of Tom Moloney, Ian Griffiths, Paul Keenan and Derek Carter were members of Flexiplan, Emaps Inland Revenue approved defined contribution pension plan.
For the The bonus that could be earned by Executive Directors based on period from 1 April 2006 or date of appointment as a Director, if later annual performance during the year was, in the case of Tom Moloney, to 31 March 2007, the Companys contributions for Executive 80% of basic salary, and in the case of the other Executive Directors Directors were 25% of basic salary for Mr Moloney and 20% of basic 70% of basic salary.
One-half of the award is paid in cash, and salary for Mr Griffiths, Mr Keenan and Mr Carter, with a required 6% one-half in shares deferred for three years, which are then matched contribution from the Executive Director.
The other main features of this by forfeitable shares that vest after three years, subject to continued plan are a flexible retirement age, life assurance cover of four times service within the Group but with no further performance conditions.
plan pay, permanent health insurance in the event of ill-health and a The Group Chief Executives maximum potential bonus was therefore pension at retirement tailored to each Executive Directors needs.
80% of salary half of which was deferred plus a maximum of 40% of salary in matching shares under the PRP a total of 120% and Details of the Companys pension contributions during the year to 70% of salary plus a maximum of 35% of salary in matching shares Flexiplan are given on page 63. under the PRP a total of 105% for the other Executive Directors.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the changes to the PRP plan Mr Carter is also a deferred member of the Emap Earnings Related described in the notice of AGM, it is proposed that for future awards Pension Plan pension scheme EERPP, which is an Inland Revenue the matching element will be removed and that one-half of any bonus registered defined benefit scheme.
Mr Carter opted out of the EERPP earned will be paid in cash and one-half in forfeitable shares deferred in 1989 and joined Flexiplan under an agreement offered to EERPP for three years.
If approval is given this approach will be applied to the members at that time, whereby his deferred pension under the EERPP 2007 bonus.
relating to the period prior to 1989 continued to be linked to his salary.
The principal features of the pension benefit accrued by Mr Carter and any change in value during the year are noted on page 63.
59 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Remuneration report continued In determining annual bonus awards, the Remuneration Committee EPS is considered an appropriate performance measurement as emphasises the importance of empirical, objective measures of it is based on the Companys underlying financial performance.
It does this by placing a greater weighting on quantitative Remuneration Committee believes EPS provides a direct link between measures and in the case of Tom Moloney by imposing only Executive Directors remuneration and shareholders interests because quantitative measures.
The weightings on quantitative and qualitative any increase in the Companys EPS produces greater value for measures during 2007 and the actual bonus awarded are shown in the shareholders.
Performance award EPS element Tom Ian Paul Derek 2004-07 2005-08 2006-09 1 Moloney Griffiths Keenan Carter RPI 3% 0% RPI 4% 0% RPI 4% 0% Maximum potential bonus 120% 105% 105% 105% RPI 3% 35% RPI 4% 35% RPI 4% 35% as a % of salary RPI 8% 100% RPI 8% 100% RPI 8% 100% Quantitative: qualitative 100:0 70:30 70:30 70:30 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 35% and 100% 2007 actual bonus 000 105 66 62 % of salary 30% 23% 37% 1 Initial awards of deferred and matching shares were subject to The figure disclosed represents a pro rated amount to reflect the amount of time Derek Carter has served on the Board during the year under review.
Mr Carter was a condition that compound growth in Emaps EPS over the three-year appointed to the Board on 4 September 2006.
His full bonus for the year under vesting period must exceed RPI in order for the shares to vest.
RPI element only applied to the first 2004-07 award and to new participants in the 2005-08 and 2006-09 awards, thereafter, awards Bonuses awarded in respect of the 2008 financial year will be based of matching shares are not subject to performance conditions.
only on quantitative objectives for all Executive Directors.
Qualitative objectives will not be bonused and the overall potential bonus for TSR is considered an appropriate measurement as it reflects Executive Directors will be increased to 110% of salary.
comparative performance against the media sector.
This ensures that Executive Directors receive rewards linked to the Companys Long-term incentive plan PRP outperformance of its peers with no rewards payable for below median Awards of long-term incentives are made annually in the form of performance.
TSR measures the return provided from holding a share performance shares under the PRP the performance award.
in the Company over the performance period, taking into account the Awards of performance shares are currently made by reference to change in capital value, dividends paid and any other capital changes.
the sum of the deferred and matching shares earned under the The TSR calculations for PRP are produced independently by annual bonus the basic award.
Additional shares of up to 250% our external data provider.
TSR performance is measured against of the basic award can be earned if the Company meets stretching a comparative group of companies, as detailed on page 61. performance conditions over the three-year vesting period.
Performance award TSR element 2004-07 2005-08 2006-09 Vesting of the performance award takes place after three years and is half dependent upon Emaps total shareholder return TSR ranked median 0% median 0% median 0% against a comparator group of media companies and half dependent median 35% median 35% median 35% upon Emaps normalised earnings per share EPS growth over three years.
Minimum and maximum performance awards are given for each top 20% 100% top 20% 100% top 20% 100% Executive Director in Note 3 on page 65.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 35% and 100% Subject to approval at the AGM in July it is proposed that, in future, awards of performance shares will be expressed as a percentage of salary, and the current formulaic link to annual performance via the SMIS will be removed.
Awards over shares normally worth no more than 175% of basic salary may be made each year.
However, the limit under the plan remains 200% of salary.
60 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance The TSR comparator groups for the respective PRP awards and On a change of control of Emap plc, deferred shares will vest within Emaps position at 31 March 2007 are set out below: six months from the date of change of control.
A proportion of the matching shares will also vest in this timeframe but the award will be 2004-07 2005-08 2006-09 pro rated to the end of the next six-month period from the original date of grant.
A proportion of the performance award may also vest within Emaps position 15th place 15th place 19th place this timeframe and will be pro rated in the same way.
This vesting will Aegis Group plc be subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that the performance conditions described above have been met at the date BSkyB Group plc of change of control.
The Remuneration Committee has also reserved Capital Radio plc the discretion to vary these time allocations provided that any such Chrysalis Group plc variation would not result in an increased award above the level currently available as a result of a straight application of the Daily Mail & General Trust plc performance criteria already in place.
Euromoney Institutional Investor plc Other than those grants made under PRP, no awards were made under any other long-term incentive plans during the year.
The Company EMI Group plc intends to grant awards under the PRP scheme annually to provide GCap Media plc appropriate phasing and to avoid any block grants being issued.
GWR Group plc As detailed above, TSR performance has, for past awards, been HIT Entertainment plc measured using a ranking approach.
Subject to shareholder approval, Informa plc for future awards an index approach will be used.
If Emaps TSR is at or below that of the index, no vesting will occur.
Full vesting will ITV plc occur if Emaps TSR is at least 6% per annum above the index.
The Johnston Press plc index for the 2007-10 awards will comprise 14 companies with strong correlation and business overlap, selected from the FTSE 350 Media Photo-Me International plc Sector.
However, irrespective of Emaps TSR performance, none of Pearson plc this part of the award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied Reed Elsevier plc with the Companys underlying financial performance.
Subject to this, straight-line vesting will occur between the index 0% and 6% per Reuters Group plc annum above the index 100%.
Scottish Radio Holdings plc Executive Share Option Plan ESOP SMG plc Awards under the ESOP were made in 2001 and 2002 and no further St. Ives plc grants are anticipated under this plan.
At the beginning of each threeyear plan period, Executive Directors were granted an option over Taylor Nelson Sofres plc shares to the maximum value of four times their salary.
Those options Trinity Mirror plc were granted at market value and were exercisable at any time United Business Media plc between the 3rd and 10th anniversary of grant, provided the performance target described below was achieved.
Upon payment WPP Group plc of the option price i. e. the market value of the shares over which the Yell Group plc option was granted at the grant date, ownership of the shares can be transferred to the Executive Director.
Note: Following the delisting of three of the constituent members of the comparator group for the 2004-07 award HIT Entertainment plc, Scottish Radio Holdings plc and At the end of each three-year vesting period, Emaps position in terms GWR Group plc, the Committee used its discretion to remove the relevant companies of TSR in a league table of a peer group of 16 media companies the from the grouping as it resulted in a transparent approach for participants.
This policy League Table was determined.
The number of shares over which the will be followed should any companies in the 2004-07, 2005-08 and 2006-09 option was exercisable for median performance, 8th place, was 50% comparator groups delist prior to the relevant award vesting.
with additional options exercisable on a pro rata basis up to 100% for 1st or 2nd place.
Following Emaps TSR rankings of 1st place and 6th place in the League Table for the 2001 and 2002 grants, 100% and 66.67% of the ESOP awards vested, respectively.
61 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Remuneration report continued Options may be exercised within six months from the date of a change TSR indices 2002-2007 of control of Emap plc.
Alternatively, if the new controlling company The graphs below show Emaps TSR performance over the five-year offers replacement options, those originally granted by Emap plc may period ended 31 March 2007 in comparison to the FTSE All Share be allowed to lapse for the replacement options offered.
index and the FTSE All Share Media index.
These indices have been chosen because they represent both a measure of stocks in general All Employee Share Ownership Plans and of those operating in the same sector as the Group.
The Company operates two All Employee Share Ownership Plans: a free share plan the Emap Share Plan and a partnership matching Total return indices FTSE All Share Index share plan Sharemap.
The Company also operates an Inland 175 Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
FTSE All 150 Share Return Index 125 These schemes are open to all employees of the Company under Emap certain eligibility criteria, including Executive Directors.
Under the Emap 100 Return Index Share Plan, eligible employees receive a number of free Emap shares 75 which may be sold after three years or sold tax free after five years.
The shares can be withdrawn with tax paid after three years and tax Total return indices FTSE All Share Media Index free after five years.
Under the SAYE, employees contribute between 5 and 250 per month into a savings contract with a maturity of three 125 Emap or five years.
On maturity, employees can buy Emap shares at a 20% Return Index discount to the market price set at the start of the savings period.
FTSE All 100 Share Media Return Index Dilution from Executive and All Employee Share 75 Ownership Plans The table below sets out the available dilution capacity for the 50 Companys share schemes: 31.03.02 31.03.03 31.03.04 31.03.05 31.03.06 31.03.07 2007 Total issued share capital at 31 March 215.8m All schemes: 10% in any consecutive 10 years 21.6m Remaining headroom 13.9m Executive schemes: 5% in any consecutive 10 years 10.8m Remaining headroom 9.3m In accordance with ABI Guidelines Principles and Guidelines on Executive Remuneration December 2003 revised December 2006.
62 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
