Corporate governance EMI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
On 9 February and 6 March 2007, respectively, the Company additionally The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the announced that Sly Bailey had become Senior Independent Director, year with the provisions set out in section 1 of The Combined Code on and that Roger Faxon had become Chairman and sole CEO of Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 and as revised in June 2006 EMI Music Publishing.
the Code, except as regards the combination of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive which is discussed below.
Since 12 January 2007, Following the separation of the roles, the Board has agreed a formal when a Non-executive Chairman was appointed, the Company has written description of the respective roles and responsibilities of the also been in compliance with the Code in this respect.
Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed the Companys statement as to its In addition to being Non-executive Chairman of EMI, John Gildersleeve compliance with the Code, insofar as it relates to those parts of the Code is also Non-executive Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
which the UK Listing Authority specifies for review by the external auditor, Until 18 April 2007, he was also Non-executive Chairman of Gallaher and its report is set out on page 55.
The remainder of this section, together with the Remuneration report, Apart from EMI, Eric Nicolis only other significant commitments during provides an explanation of how EMI applies the principles of good the year were the chairmanship of two private companies, The Tussauds governance as set out in the revised Code.
Group Limited and Vue Entertainment Investment Ltd, assuming the latter post on 21 December 2006.
On 21 May 2007, he ceased to be The Board Non-executive Chairman of The Tussauds Group Limited.
As at 31 March 2007, the Board of EMI Group plc comprised eight Directors of whom three were Executive Directors.
Prior to 20 November The Board as a whole considers the appointment of Directors to, and 2006, when Kathleen ODonovan retired as a Director, there were six executive appointments within, the Board, based on recommendations Non-executive Directors.
Until 11 January 2007, when Alain Levy from the Nomination Committee which follows a formally approved ceased to be a Director, there were four Executive Directors.
The Articles of Association include a requirement that all Directors should submit themselves for election by the shareholders at All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of the AGM immediately following their appointment and for re-election at management in character and judgement and free from any business least once every three years thereafter.
or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
John Gildersleeve became Non-executive The Board schedules at least eight full meetings and three telephonic Chairman of the Company on 12 January 2007 and, until then, he meetings each year, with additional meetings or contact between was considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.
The programme for each year is approved by the Nomination Committee has conducted an annual review as to whether Board in advance.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy the Non-executive Directors remain independent applying the criteria together with the operations and results of the two main business units, set out in the Code.
As reflected in their biographies, which appear on as well as the consideration of the annual operating plan and forecast, page 37, the Directors have a wide and balanced range of experience and regular presentations on key business developments, major projects in multinational and consumer-orientated businesses, as well as an and strategic issues.
Actual results for the Group and its two business appropriately international spread.
units are reported to all Directors each month.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the Board held eight scheduled meetings, together with a Until 12 January 2007, Eric Nicoli was executive Chairman of the further 12 ad hoc meetings.
The scheduled meetings included a strategy Company.
Day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the away day in June and a strategy review as part of its scheduled October Companys two main businesses lay with Alain Levy, as Chairman and meeting in New York.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the Board met CEO, EMI Music, and Roger Faxon, as co-CEO, EMI Music Publishing, twice outside the UK to allow closer contact with local management and who each reported to Eric Nicoli.
it is intended to continue this practice in coming years where practicable.
On 12 January 2007, the Company announced changes to the Board, These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, aim to as follows: ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
John Gildersleeve, hitherto the Non-executive Deputy Chairman The Boards programme also includes management development and of EMI Group and Senior Independent Director, became succession planning, reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and its Non-executive Chairman of EMI Group: principal committees, and an assessment of the performance of the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Until 12 January 2007, the Alain Levy, who had been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Boards programme provided for at least two meetings a year between of EMI Music since October 2001, had stepped down from the the executive Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Since then, the Board: programme has continued to provide for regular meetings between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors and at least one meeting of Eric Nicoli, who had been Executive Chairman of EMI Group since the Non-executive Directors alone.
July 1999, which position incorporated the role of chief executive officer of EMI Group plc, became Group Chief Executive Officer During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its principal Group CEO of EMI Group and, as part of this role, took direct committees was assessed through each Director completing a responsibility for the management of EMI Music, the Groups questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the recorded music business: and, Chairman.
The results were then presented by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board.
A similar process was applied during the Martin Stewart continued as Chief Financial Officer of EMI Group year by each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and, as part of that role, took direct responsibility for the with the effectiveness questionnaire being approved by the respective management of the finance function of EMI Music.
39 Corporate governance continued In view of the changes to the Board during the year ended 31 March Board committees 2007, performance evaluations of individual Directors were deferred The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration into the current financial year.
In previous years, the performance of the and Nomination Committees.
Reflecting the important role played by Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors has been reviewed the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high standards through completion of an appraisal form with the results being of corporate governance, all the Non-executive Directors are members communicated to the Directors concerned.
The same process will be of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Since followed in the current financial year, with the Chairman carrying out 12 January 2007, the Non-executive Chairman has been a member the evaluation of each Director and Sly Bailey, as Senior Independent of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, but not the Director, leading the evaluation of the Chairman after consultation with Audit Committee.
Each committee has written terms of reference and levels of authority Tailored induction programmes are provided for new Directors.
In which have been amended so as to ensure compliance with the Code: addition to briefings by the Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and these can be viewed on the Groups website, www.
com, or Company Secretary, meetings are arranged with a range of corporate obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Except in the case of and business executives as well as the external auditor and other the Remuneration Committee, minutes of meetings are circulated to all advisers.
Inductions also now include modular sessions covering the key Directors.
characteristics of, and operating risks faced by, the recorded music and music publishing businesses.
During the year to 31 March 2007, an Remuneration Committee ongoing programme of professional development, comprising modular The role of the Remuneration Committee is described on page 44. sessions approved in advance by the Board, was provided for The Committee was chaired by John Gildersleeve until 1 February 2007, Non-executive Directors.
since when it has been chaired by Sly Bailey.
It meets at least three times each year.
The Remuneration report on pages 44 to 53 gives information The Board has delegated certain matters to standing committees, details about the Directors remuneration.
of which are set out below.
However, to ensure its overall control of the Companys affairs, the Board has reserved certain matters to itself for The main responsibilities and activities of the other principal Committees decision.
These include the Groups strategic plans and forecasts: major are as follows: acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses or assets, and Audit Committee significant contractual commitments or items of expenditure: together The Audit Committee was chaired by Kathleen ODonovan until 31 May with policies relating to the Groups treasury function, pensions, material 2006 and, since then, has been chaired by Kevin Carton.
The Committee litigation, employee share schemes, and environmental and ethical comprised all the Non-executive Directors until 12 January 2007 since issues.
The delegated authorities, together with each Committees when, John Gildersleeve, the Non-executive Chairman, has ceased to terms of reference and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board be a member.
The Committee meets at least four times each year and for decision, are reviewed each year.
its meetings are normally attended by the Group CEO, the Group CFO, All Directors have access to the services and advice of the Company the Senior Vice President Group Financial Controller, the Head of Secretary, who is appointed by, and may only be removed by, the Board.
Internal Audit and the external auditor.
In addition, the Company The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, Secretary attends in his capacity as secretary to the Committee.
There are also procedures for Directors, in Separate meetings are held by the Committee with both the external appropriate circumstances, to obtain independent professional advice auditor at least twice each year and the Head of Internal Audit at the cost of the Company.
at least once each year without the presence of Executive Directors or other management.
Following each meeting the Committee The Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as Chairman reports to the Board any matter of particular importance.
non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may be with another publicly quoted company.
They may retain the remuneration The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms from such appointments.
All appointments must be approved by the of reference and, where necessary, to obtain external legal or other Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
The Committees responsibilities, which it has carried out during the year, include: The attendance by individual Directors at scheduled and ad hoc meetings of the Board and its Committees in the financial year ended reviewing, and assessing the effectiveness of, the Groups internal 31 March 2007 was as follows: financial controls together with its internal control and risk management systems: Board Board Director scheduled ad hoc Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive making recommendations to the Board with regard to: the E L Nicoli 8 8 12 12 4 6 4 4 10 10 appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor: R C Faxon 8 8 12 12 n a n a n a 10 10 overseeing the Companys relations with the external auditor: a A M J I Levy 7 7 9 10 1 n a n a 8 9 monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: M D Stewart 8 8 12 12 4 n a n a 10 10 and the effectiveness of the audit process: J Gildersleeve 6 8 11 12 2 3 5 6 3 4 1 S Bailey 8 8 11 12 4 4 6 6 3 4 n a reviewing the internal audit plan for the year: monitoring and K K Carton 8 8 10 12 4 4 6 6 4 4 n a reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: ensuring P A Georgescu 8 8 6 12 3 4 6 6 4 4 n a appropriate co-ordination between the internal audit function and D J Londoner 8 8 12 12 4 4 6 6 3 4 n a the external auditor: providing adequate resources for the internal b K A ODonovan 6 7 7 7 3 3 3 4 2 2 n a audit function and ensuring that it has appropriate standing: and approving the appointment or termination of appointment of the head of the internal audit function: and, The large number of ad hoc Board meetings resulted from the Company being in an offer period, in accordance with the UK Takeover Code, three times during the year, together with the requirement to issue two trading statements in January and February 2007. reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements with Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could particular reference to accounting policies, together with have attended.
significant estimates and financial reporting judgements and Not Committee members, but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings the disclosures made therein.
a Ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007 b Retired on 20 November 2006 40 Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the For each year, the Committee adopts a formal programme which is Group financial statements structured to coincide with key events in the Companys financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the reporting cycle.
The programme also includes other regular items, for Group financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and example: a review of the Committees own effectiveness and a periodic those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the review of the internal audit function: a continuing programme of postEuropean Union.
investment reviews: the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: a continuing review of the risks which The Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements for each the Groups business faced this review process is discussed in more financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and detail in the section below on Internal Control : reviews of material the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In litigation to which the Group is party: reviews of treasury policies and preparing those Group financial statements the Directors are required to: the Groups main pension plans: and the review and supervision of the Groups worldwide whistleblowing arrangements.
In addition, the Committees programme during the last year has included regular select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: reports on the effective use of working capital within the recorded Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors music and music publishing businesses.
and then apply them consistently: Each year, the Committee reviews the independence and objectivity present information, including accounting policies, in a manner of the external auditor with a view to confirming that, in its opinion, the that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value for money on the information: other have been kept appropriately in balance.
During the past year, the Committee has reconfirmed its detailed and formal policy regarding the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Services for requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand which the external auditor may be considered under this policy include the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions supporting and reporting on financial representations in public on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and, documentation and general advice on accounting, tax and financial reporting matters.
Services for which the external auditor may not be state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any engaged, without the prior approval of the Audit Committee, include material departures disclosed and explained in the financial employee tax services and consulting services.
for Board members or senior executives may not be undertaken by the external auditor.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Further details of the Committees role in relation to the annual position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group assessment of the Groups internal control framework are set out financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 below under Internal control.
of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for Nomination Committee taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Chaired by John Gildersleeve, the Committee comprises all the other irregularities.
The Group CEO is regularly invited to attend meetings.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the the appointment of Directors, the reappointment of Non-executive parent company financial statements Directors on the expiry of their three-year terms of appointment, and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the the appointment of any person to act as Chairman of the Company.
In financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
addition, the Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding plans for succession for both Executive and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for Non-executive Directors.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted A formal process has been adopted by the Committee to make Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
recommendations on both the appointment of new Directors and the The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view re-election of existing Directors.
This involves an evaluation of the skills, of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the knowledge and experience of the Board as a whole, consideration of Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board and agreement of a the Directors are required to: description of the role and capabilities required for an anticipated new appointment.
The selection process is led by the Chairman in close select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consultation with the Group CEO and all Directors are offered the consistently: opportunity to meet a potential appointee before the Committee meets to discuss the proposed recommendation.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and, In addition, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, and oversees the process for reviewing the effectiveness of state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the Board and its principal committees as well as the performance followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and of individual Directors.
explained in the financial statements.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and otherwise when required.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records During the financial year ended 31 March 2007, the Committee met four that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position times and recommended the reappointment of John Gildersleeve and Sly of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Bailey as Non-executive Directors for further three-year terms, as well as comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the appointment of John Gildersleeve as Chairman and Eric Nicoli as safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable Group CEO.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Executive Committee With effect from 1 March 2007, the Executive Committee ceased to be a Committee of the Board.
However, the Group CEO continues to meet, on a monthly basis, with his direct reports and other senior executives.
41 Corporate governance continued The strength of an internal control system is dependent on the quality and Going concern integrity of management and staff.
Those executives at senior levels are The Directors believe that, after making enquiries they consider to be informed of their responsibilities as to the maintenance of sound systems appropriate, the Group has adequate resources to continue in business of internal control.
A routine and Group-wide process, which requires key for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the executives and managers to certify their compliance with the Groups going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
policies and procedures, reinforces this integrity.
Internal control The internal audit function operates as one Group-wide Internal Audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and Department which monitors and supports the internal control system for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is based on and reports to both the Audit Committee and the Groups senior what the Board considers to be appropriate to the Groups activities, to management.
The responsibilities of the internal audit function include the materiality of the financial and other risks inherent in those activities recommending improvements in the control environment and ensuring and to the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
It compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The Audit is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Committee reviews the audit plan prepared by the Internal Audit business objectives and, as such, provides reasonable, but not absolute, Department.
assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the The full Board meets regularly throughout the year and the matters significant risks faced by the Group were in place for the year under specifically reserved for its approval ensure that the Directors maintain review and up to the date of this Report.
These processes are regularly control over significant strategic, financial and compliance matters.
reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accord with the requirements of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors The overall policy framework for EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing is on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in laid down by the Group and is the aggregate of a wide range of policies, October 2005. procedures, systems and controls.
During the year to 31 March 2007, significant potential risks facing the Each of the two divisions is responsible for implementing and maintaining Group, including major financial and funding risks, have been assessed a strong control framework over its business under the umbrella of the and graded in a process managed by the Group Risk Director and Group framework.
The divisions are subdivided into regions and then involving line and functional management throughout the Group.
The territories of which there are approximately 65 in EMI Music and 25 in EMI controls in place to manage or mitigate each risk were reviewed for Music Publishing.
To achieve the control objective, each division has its their effectiveness, together with the extent to which the Internal Audit own suite of more-detailed policies in those areas where the Group policy is not sufficiently precise.
No policy making is undertaken at regional or Department and the external auditor were able to provide assurance on territory level, although Group and or divisional procedures may be the controls continued operation.
Where it was considered that further modified to comply with local law.
In particular, there is a requirement for action should be taken to address the risks, mitigation plans to be all territory, regional and divisional business heads, financial officers and implemented by management and additional audit regimes were senior functional heads, to confirm that the accounts for which they are identified.
The processes to monitor and inform the Board about responsible have been prepared in accordance with the accounting control performance were confirmed.
policies of the Group and the relevant division, that they fairly and substantially present, in all material regards, the financial condition and The risk and control assessment process is overseen and supervised by results of operations, and that all the relevant forms were completed, the Group Risk Management Steering Committee.
This Committee is were prepared from, and are in agreement with, the underlying chaired by the Group CFO and its members include representatives of accounting records.
Management must also confirm that attention the two operating businesses as well as the heads of relevant central has been drawn to all unusual transactions, accounting treatments, functions.
The assessment is reviewed by the Audit Committee and is commitments, contingencies or claims on the Companys assets, not repeated annually.
The risk and control assessment is also shared with fully addressed by the accounting policies of the division or the Group.
senior management throughout the Group.
Furthermore, management must declare that, in compiling the accounts, they have considered the impact of pertinent business developments The Groups funding and associated hedgeable risks are managed and risks and the effectiveness of the internal control framework, that all centrally by the Treasury Department under a framework of policies and material weaknesses in the framework have already been recorded on guidelines approved by the Board.
The Committee reviewed the policy the Control Issues Register a central record of control failure and framework during the year.
Control and authority is delegated to the associated internal control implications of significant business issues, Treasury Management Committee.
Chaired by the Group CFO, the and that the attention of the external auditor has been drawn to any Committee oversees the Treasury Departments adherence to a number other relevant information of which management believe that the external of core operating principles which include: central approval of all external auditor should be aware.
Finally, management must state that, during financing arrangements and loan covenants: central management of the year just ending, they have followed the financial and non-financial surplus cash and maintenance of security over Company assets: central policies and guidelines mandated by Group, divisional and regional approval for all guarantees: and the giving of EMI Group plc support for management, and continue to do so, confirming that a sound and local credit facilities.
Businesses are precluded from undertaking hedging effective internal control framework has been maintained and remains in without the prior written approval of the Treasury Department.
place which includes, but is not limited to, the detection and prevention of accounting misstatements and fraud.
In October 2006, the Group announced that it had identified, through its internal controls, a one-off accounting fraud affecting the reporting of The Group operates comprehensive annual planning, financial reporting results at EMIs recorded music business in Brazil.
The fraud principally and forecasting processes.
The Board formally approves strategic involved the reporting of sales figures for EMI Music Brazil beyond the and operating plans, together with annual forecasts.
The Groups level of real orders from its customers and resulted in the overstatement performance is monitored against forecast on a monthly basis and all of EMI Musics revenues by approximately 12m and its operating profits significant variances are investigated.
There are defined authorisation by approximately 9m.
This revenue and profit impact was reflected in procedures in respect of certain matters including capital expenditure, the financial results for the six months ended 30 September 2006.
The investments, the granting of guarantees and the use of financial Group conducted a full investigation, including through external forensic instruments.
specialists, and terminated the employment of certain of the senior management at the Brazilian business, as well as taking a number of other remedial actions.
The response to the fraud and the remedial actions were overseen by the Audit Committee.
42 The Board is aware of the disclosure guidelines on social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers, and an update on social, ethical and environmental SEE issues is part of the Boards annual programme.
Annual performance in these areas is already monitored and publicly disclosed through the Groups Social Responsibility reporting programme.
As part of the annual risk review process and the presentation of those results to the Board, account is taken of any issues arising from SEE matters that could cause risk to value: no significant risks of this nature were identified during the year under review.
Appropriate SEE matters are included in the induction programme for Non-executive Directors.
The Group has in place a social responsibility policy as well as specific ethics and environmental policies.
An ethics policy Standards of Business Conduct is issued each year.
Compliance with the policy is monitored by means of self-certification by senior and middle management and through checks made by the Internal Audit Department.
A social responsibility report is published in respect of each financial year and briefer reviews of such matters are included in the Operating and Financial Review on page 32 and elsewhere in this Annual Report on pages 34 to 36.
The Audit Committee receives additional assurance on the operation of internal control systems around the Group, primarily from reviews by the Internal Audit Department, which presents the conclusions of its reviews twice a year.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives a summary report from the Control Issues Register.
The external auditor also takes internal financial control into consideration as part of its audit.
A report is also prepared for distribution to senior management throughout the Group and appropriate actions are taken to rectify any control failures.
Any significant new issues and material changes to the risk environment are reported at the next Board meeting.
Investor relations The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue with investors.
The Chairman and Executive Directors have held, and will continue to hold, discussions with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to meet investors, if so requested.
In addition, there are general presentations to investors and analysts after the announcement of the half-year and annual results which are simultaneously webcast.
From time to time, more tailored presentations on specific areas of importance are given.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Group CEO and other Directors at the AGM and can meet them informally after the AGM.
Results announcements and other press releases are made available on the Groups website as soon as possible after their publication.
Actions taken to develop an understanding amongst Directors of the views of major shareholders about the Group include reports to the Board on investor relations.
Twice each year, these reports are supplemented by more detailed reviews by investor relations staff, supported by the Companys brokers.
