The Combined Code Appointment and re-election The Company applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the All non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have been Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best appointed by the Board for a term of three years.
In the case of Practice issued in July 2003 the Code, as amended, throughout Peter Brooks and Waldemar Schmidt, they were appointed for an the period as detailed herein.
Whilst formal compliance is important, initial term of five years and their appointments have been extended the Boards overall approach is to be guided by, and observe, the in each case for a further period of three years.
During the period, spirit of the Code and apply high standards of corporate governance.
the appointments of Michael Arrowsmith and Joseph Ross were extended for further three-year periods.
Compliance statement All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with opportunity after their appointment and to re-election thereafter the Code throughout the accounting period.
The Company complied by rotation at least every three years in accordance with the throughout the accounting period ended 29 September 2007 with Companys Articles of Association.
The names of the Directors the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except in respect submitted for re-election, and reasons why the Board believes they of the following: should be re-elected, are detailed in the Directors report on page 52. no evaluation of the Nomination Committee was performed Biographical details for each of them appear on page 51.
6.1 : Board procedures and support the provisions of the employment agreements of the executive The Board considers, as confirmed by the performance evaluation Directors contain liquidated damages on termination thereof referred to below, that it provides effective leadership and control without cause, as explained on page 61 B.
Matters reserved for approval by the Board include: one provision in the employment agreement of David McCulloch, approval of annual budget: with move towards compliance explained on page 61 B.
1.6 : and approval of annual three year Long Range Plan: the Chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee B.
The Company was not therefore compliant until setting Group strategy: 1 November 2006 when the Code was amended to permit the monitoring performance against budget: Chairman to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
approval of acquisitions and disposals: 3.
The Board and Committees approval of major capital projects: General Board appointments: and The Directors biographies, which are set out on page 51, demonstrate a range of business backgrounds and dividend recommendation.
The Board maintains a dialogue as and when necessary between The composition of the Board is balanced, with a non-executive formal meetings.
Briefing papers are circulated in advance of all Chairman, four non-executive Directors and three executive meetings.
Any newly appointed Directors will receive a full, formal Directors.
The Board has determined that, leaving aside the and tailored induction programme.
A formal procedure is in place Chairman, each non-executive Director is independent.
to enable Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Waldemar Schmidt is the Senior Independent Director.
independent professional advice, if necessary, under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
Should The Board has agreed a written statement setting out the division a Director have any concerns about a particular issue, such concerns of the responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive will be recorded in the minutes of the relevant Board meeting.
Broadly, the Chairman is responsible for the running Furthermore, should he choose to resign over such a matter, the of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible concerns would be formally communicated to the other Directors for the management of the Groups business and operations.
All Directors are expected to keep themselves The Boards policy is that its Chief Executive Officer should regularly up to date with developments relevant to their role.
Periodic not become Chairman of the Company.
visits to operating locations and facilities are expected and, during the year, non-executive members of the Board visited several Group sites and relevant trade shows.
Directors also receive appropriate UK and US journals and investor materials and have full and timely access to relevant information and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the period.
54 | Enodis plc | Corporate governance Board performance evaluation Nomination Committee An evaluation of the performance of the Board and each Director The Board has established a Nomination Committee.
Appointments including the Chairman was carried out by Robert Eimers the to the Board are reviewed by the Board as a whole, while the Executive Vice President Global Human Resources after the end of Nomination Committee is empowered to undertake the search FY07.
This was the fifth year such an evaluation had been undertaken process and to recommend candidates to the Board as necessary.
but was carried out by Mr Eimers to ensure a fresh view of progress The Committee comprises Peter Brooks Chairman, Waldemar and to take advantage of his particular skills and experience in Schmidt and Joseph Ross and meets as needed.
Interviews were conducted by Mr Eimers with each determined that an evaluation of the Committees performance was other Director regarding the performance of the Board and of each not necessary.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee Director.
The Board had again considered whether outside assistance are available for inspection on the Groups website.
should be sought but remained of the firm view that it would have Remuneration Committee been inappropriate and potentially disruptive to involve an outside third party in the exercise.
The outcome of the evaluation was Details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in discussed by the Board at its November 2007 meeting.
The Board the Directors remuneration report.
The Committee reviewed its concluded that the evaluation exercise had confirmed that the effectiveness in November 2007 and concluded that it had continued Directors had the appropriate range of skills and experience and to operate effectively.
constituted an effective and unified Board.
The overall conclusion Report on theAudit Committee and its main activities in the was that the right approach was to continue to seek, as the Board period to 29 September 2007 does, ways to develop the level of Board performance by building on current practices.
The Audit Committees written terms of reference are available on the Groups website and its principal oversight responsibilities cover: An evaluation of the performance of the Chairman conducted by Mr Eimers was effected by interviews with each Director using financial reporting: a questionnaire designed to explore subjects such as management internal control and risk management: of Board meetings identification of correct topics, enough time for discussion, quality of papers for meetings, effective review recommendation to the Board on the appointment of auditors: of financial performance, quality of presentations, establishment external audit including audit scope, approval of audit fee and of appropriate structures to ensure proper oversight of significant auditor independence : and corporate actions, receipt of relevant additional materials analysts reports, industry data to monitor Company performance and internal audit.
communication of Board goals to the CEO.
The conclusion was The Committees Chairman is Michael Arrowsmith, appointed that the Chairman continues to manage the Boards affairs effectively on 11 February 2004 who sits together with Michael Cronk and and competently.
Joseph Ross appointed on 31 July 2003 and 5 May 2004 Relationships with major shareholders and understanding respectively.
During the period, the terms of appointment their views of Messrs Arrowsmith and Ross were extended for three years.
The Secretary of the Committee is David Hooper, the Company There is an agreed allocation of responsibilities for regular executive Secretary.
A comprehensive induction programme is made available Director and senior executives communication with institutional for any new members of the Committee and ongoing education is investors and analysts.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial actively encouraged.
At all times, the Committee must comprise only Officer and other senior corporate executives have made a number non-executive Directors and shall normally consist of not less than of structured presentations to major shareholders following results three members.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, announcements.
Feedback from these presentations is reported a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, to other members of the Board.
Quarterly analyses of shareholders and having had extensive experience as a senior finance executive are prepared by the Companys brokers and distributed to the of publicly traded companies, has recent and relevant financial Board.
The Board believes the Companys communications with experience.
As indicated on page 51, Michael Cronk is an shareholders are satisfactory.
The Chairman and the Senior experienced businessman having formerly been Executive Vice Independent Director continue to be available to shareholders President of Aramark.
Joseph Ross, a qualified US attorney, was at any time, in the event of their wishing to discuss any matters formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federal Signal regarding the Company.
Details of the remuneration of the Principal communication with private shareholders is through the members of the Committee are set out in the table on page 62 in provision of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Results.
Other Directors and executives Also, the Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for private may attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
During the year, shareholders to question the Board and discuss issues with the Audit Committee Chairman invited, inter alia, the Chief Financial executive management after the meeting.
The Groups website Officer, the Deputy CFO, the Group Controller and the Head www.
com contains financial and other information and is of Internal Audit to attend.
Representatives from the external regularly updated.
auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, were also present at each meeting.
The Committee also met separately with the external and internal auditors and with management.
Corporate governance | Enodis plc | 55 Corporate governance continued Amongst other things, the Committee undertook the following reviewed and approved the Groups Turnbull Report to support activities at its meetings during the period: the Boards sign-off on the system of internal control see below for more details : reviewed and recommended to the Board the interim and annual results, considering any matters raised by management and the maintained oversight of the risk management process: external auditors and reviewed judgements made on provisioning approved the process whereby the Directors would satisfy and accounting treatments: themselves that they complied with the provisions of Section reviewed and approved the audit plans for the external and 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 statement as to disclosure internal auditors: of information to the auditors : and monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it had of the external auditors: continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
The Board concurred with this conclusion.
discussed the results of internal audit reviews, including significant findings, managements action plans and the timeliness of resolution: Number of Board and Committee meetings and attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Director Number Attendance Number Attendance Number Attendance Number Attendance M R Arrowsmith 10 10 4 4 P M Brooks 10 10 7 7 4 4 GMCronk 10 10 4477 R C Eimers 10 10 D S McCulloch 10 10 JJRoss 10 10 4 4 4 4 WSchmidt 10 10 7744 WDWrench 10 10 4.
Going concern In February 2007, the Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness The Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to of the external audit process and of the external auditors.
This was continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they achieved by reviewing a thorough report by management of the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
2006 audit process and a response thereto by the external auditors, 6.
Internal control and by conducting a qualitative evaluation of the external auditors.
This covered such matters as their quality assurance processes, Introduction capabilities of the audit team, their degree of independence, balance The Board has established procedures to implement the Turnbull of fee against scope of the audit and quality of communications.
Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined The Company has a policy and procedures in place for the review Code.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, and pre-approval of the performance of non-audit services by the provide an ongoing process designed to identify, evaluate and external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, to ensure that there is no manage significant risks faced by the Group.
impairment of independence and objectivity.
The policy, approved Responsibility by the Audit Committee and the Board, includes a description of the non-audit services that the external auditors can provide, The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
The policy specifies those services which shall A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather not be performed by the auditors, including those that would involve than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and self-review.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the audit and non-audit services performed by, and of the amounts paid to, the external auditor are set out in note 6 to the Framework consolidated financial statements.
The Board recognises that Risk Management is the cornerstone Deloitte & Touche LLP reported to the Audit Committee in writing of a sound system of internal control.
Therefore, the Board performs that they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and an annual review of the key risks faced by the Group, covering professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit strategic, business, financial, compliance and other risks.
Controls engagement partner and staff is not impaired.
are then identified to alleviate or mitigate these risks to an acceptable level, and these are then constantly monitored to ensure they have been operating throughout the period under review and any weaknesses or issues addressed on a timely basis.
56 | Enodis plc | Corporate governance Control structure The Audit Committee periodically receives and reviews reports on internal controls from the external auditors and a formal annual The Group maintains an extensive system of internal control.
self-assessment is provided by the presidents and controllers Key elements include: of each operating company detailing the operation of their control a defined operating structure for the Group with clear lines of systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
The Groups organisational A biannual survey is prepared of employees views and opinions structure is relatively flat, assisting close control, fast information on a wide variety of risk management issues.
flow and responsiveness: Regional management and the Audit Committee review the results written policies and procedures which define the limits of of such reports and assessment taking action as appropriate.
delegated authority and provide a framework for management to deal with areas of significant business risk.
These policies Where, as a result of these reviews, issues are identified in the and procedures are regularly reviewed and, where necessary, internal control environment, prompt corrective actions are taken.
updated: The Group has an internal audit function that reports directly a Treasury Operating Committee which oversees the operation to the Audit Committee whose role includes assisting the Board of the Group treasury function and sets appropriate limits to to discharge its responsibilities regarding internal control.
mitigate treasury risk: Review of effectiveness representation letters obtained from all operating companies The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness prior to publishing results confirming disclosures and compliance of the system of internal control through the monitoring process with internal and external requirements, compliance with ethical set out above for the period under review and to the date of approval policies, that appropriate recruitment checks have been made of the annual report and financial statements.
and that a whistleblower policy has been circulated: operating procedures which include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the Directors which is adjusted as necessary: and budgets prepared by operating company management and subject to review by both Group management and the Directors.
Forecasts are revised during the year and compared against budget.
When setting budgets and forecasts management identifies, evaluates and reports on potential significant business risks.
Monthly reports of operating performance, with commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year, are prepared at operational and Group levels.
Key performance indicators are monitored by the Board.
The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial implications of the acquisition and key performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis is performed of the key assumptions made in the acquisition case.
Post investment appraisals of the Groups investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
A treasury report, with details of borrowings and investments, is distributed to corporate management on a weekly basis.
The Audit Committee reviews reports detailing any significant legal actions faced by Group companies.
Monitoring and review activities There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups system of internal control, risk assessment, management policies and the integrity of management systems.
