Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Filtrona is committed to high standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout the Company.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the standards of governance which are maintained across Filtronas diverse range of international businesses.
Compliance with the Combined Code As a listed company, Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company has complied with the 2006 version of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity and accountability through its own behaviour, by monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant professional bodies.
The policies and procedures adopted by the Board and applicable to the Filtrona businesses are documented in a manual which sets out the roles and delegated authorities applying to the Board, the Executive Committee and the businesses.
This manual is updated whenever necessary.
Board of Directors The Board is collectively committed to promoting the success and strategic direction of the Company, providing entrepreneurial leadership and stewardship to the businesses and management, taking responsibility for the strategic direction of the Company by the implementation and maintenance of its core values and governance controls.
The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that the people on the Board and executive teams are well equipped to drive, and capable of delivering on, the Companys strategy, proper and effective communication to employees, shareholders and other stakeholders, and the maintenance of effective performance measurement controls and risk management systems.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be reviewed by it, including the approval of annual and interim results, strategic plans, annual budgets, material increases to borrowing and loan facilities, acquisitions and disposals and major capital and operating expenditure proposals.
During 2007, the Board reviewed the schedule of reserved matters and concluded that the level of authorities delegated to the Executive Committee and the individual businesses remained appropriate within the overall control environment which the Company maintains.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference approved by the Board and available on the website www.
These Committees report regularly to the Board.
During the year there were eight scheduled Board meetings, with one meeting being held at an overseas operational facility, together with an additional day of strategy discussions.
In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on an ad-hoc basis as required for particular matters.
The Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors and the Chairman also holds periodic informal discussions with the Non-executive Directors, without any of the Executive Directors being present, to review performance and to monitor corporate control mechanisms.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and General Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during the year.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board considers a report from the Chief Executive on current trading, a financial review and other significant business issues such as acquisition proposals and other major investment plans.
Additionally, the Board receives presentations and considers reports from senior management about matters of material importance to the Company, such as health and safety performance.
The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure the Board maintains overall control for all material strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters affecting the Company are included within the internal control section of this Report set out on page 53.
49 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Composition of the Board The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness: the Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of Filtronas operations.
In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson are each considered to be independent of management as detailed in the Code and there are no relationships or circumstances which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors provide an independent view in Board discussions and the development of the Companys strategy, and ensure a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, challenging managements performance and, in conjunction with the Executive Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls and systems of risk management are maintained appropriate to the needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
The Board is content that the Non-executive Directors devote sufficient time to the business of Filtrona.
The letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors are available for review at the Companys registered office and prior to the AGM.
Paul Drechsler acts as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Finance Director or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Articles of Association of the Company require one third of the Directors to retire from office each year and for all Directors to submit themselves for re-election on a date which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last re-appointment.
The Directors retiring at the forthcoming AGM and submitting themselves for re-appointment are Mark Harper and Paul Drechsler.
Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election, continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
Lars Emilson was appointed as a Director subsequent to the Companys AGM held in 2007 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, is putting himself forward for election.
Steve Crummett is to be appointed to the Board of Directors with effect from 19 March 2008 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will stand for election at the AGM.
Steve Dryden will resign from the Board of Directors on 19 March 2008.
The following were Directors of the Company and attended the following number of meetings during the year ended 31 December 2007: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Held 8 4 4 4 Attended Jeff Harris Chairman 8 4 Mark Harper Chief Executive 8 Steve Dryden Finance Director 8 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director 8 4 4 4 Adrian Auer Non-executive Director 8 4 4 4 Lars Emilson Non-executive Director 5 3 1 3 Warren Knowlton Non-executive Director 1 Appointed on 1 May 2007 Appointed on 6 December 2007 Resigned on 30 April 2007 Please refer to the note on the Contents page.
50 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information and professional development The Chairman with the Company Secretary and General Counsel takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The agenda for each Board and Committee meeting is considered by the relevant Chairman and papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are usually provided five clear working days beforehand.
In addition, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors to discuss specific issues.
On appointment, Directors benefit from an induction programme tailored to their individual needs and designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
The programme, which continues throughout a Directors tenure as necessary, includes details of fiduciary duties, Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on Directors dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Board and business related matters, meetings with senior management, site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders.
Directors are free to meet individual members of the senior management team and have done so during the year under review.
The Board and its Committees receive briefings on legislative and regulatory developments and new accounting requirements as appropriate and believe that, given the experience and skills of its Directors, the identification of general training needs is best left to their individual discretion.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General Counsel who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year under review the Company Secretary and General Counsels advice was sought in relation to share dealings.
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year.
Performance evaluation During 2007 the Board carried out its annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
This involved the Directors independently completing a questionnaire, provided by external consultants, and reviewing individual performance and the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The results, which served to strengthen the Boards priorities and communication, were discussed at a Board meeting and the various relevant Committee meetings.
Following this detailed review, the Directors have concluded that the Board and its Committees function well as forums for considered and challenging debate and that the processes in place and the information provided enable the Board and its Committees to operate effectively and efficiently on the basis of a clear understanding of the Company and its strategic objectives.
As part of the 2007 Board performance evaluation, the Chairman reviewed the performance of each of the individual Directors and the Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director also appraised the Chairmans performance without the Chairman being present.
Building on the review undertaken in 2007, it is intended that the Company will be engaging the services of external consultants to carry out an evaluation of the operation of the Board and its Committees and the performance of the individual Directors during 2008.
Insurance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover to the extent that the Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Board committees Each Board committee has established clear and defined terms of reference detailing their responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference for each Board Committee are reviewed annually and are available on Filtronas website at www.
51 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises Adrian Auer, who chairs the Audit Committee, Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson.
The Board is satisfied that Adrian Auer has recent and relevant financial experience.
A representative of the Companys external auditor ordinarily attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit are normally invited to attend the meetings.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Its duties include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing, challenging and approving Filtronas accounting policies, and scrutinising the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys whistleblowing policy to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation, and follow up action as necessary, of any concerns raised by employees in relation to financial reporting or other matters.
Additionally, the Audit Committee keeps under review the scope, materiality and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-appointment or removal of the external auditor, their terms of engagement and the level of their remuneration.
The Audit Committee has a policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy recognises the importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor by minimising its involvement in projects of a non-audit nature.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals and tax services.
The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Company management being present and conducts an annual assessment of the performance of the external auditor and the Companys internal audit function.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Jeff Harris, who chairs the Nomination Committee, Paul Drechsler, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates for appointment as Executive and Nonexecutive Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee meets as required and during 2007 it met four times.
With the benefit of assistance from external advisers, the Nomination Committee made a recommendation to the Board of Directors regarding the appointment of Lars Emilson to the Board of Directors in May 2007.
In 2008 the Nomination Committee has been engaged in the recruitment of a new Finance Director and made a recommendation to the Board of Directors for the appointment of Steve Crummett to the Board of Directors in March 2008.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The selection process is, in the Boards view, both rigorous and transparent in order to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria set by the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Paul Drechsler, who chairs the Remuneration Committee, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is described more fully in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 38 to 48.
52 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder communications The Company communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, including the Nonexecutive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders about the Company.
This is achieved by the Executive Directors maintaining contact from time to time with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest relating to the Company and reporting back to the Board.
In 2007, the Remuneration Committees proposals to introduce changes to the LTIP performance conditions were the subject of a detailed consultation with a number of institutional investors.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of the Company should they so wish.
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be posted to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The interim and preliminary results of Filtrona, along with all other press releases, are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced and webcasts of the presentations of the Companys interim and preliminary results are available for download.
Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place.
Filtronas internal systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure the integrity and reliability of information used both within the businesses and for public announcements.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive supported by the Executive Committee and to the respective Divisional Heads within delegated authority limits and in accordance with clearly defined systems of control.
The Executive Committee, which meets at least twice per month, is made up of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the Director of Corporate Development, and the Director of Group Human Resources.
All Directors receive copies of the minutes from each Executive Committee meeting and the monthly reports submitted by the individual business divisions.
The Global Executive, which consists of the Executive Committee members and the Divisional Heads, meets periodically to discuss the health and safety programme, business performance, employee-related matters, including succession planning, and common operational issues across Filtronas international businesses.
Biographies of the Global Executive members demonstrating the range of management expertise within the Companys senior executive team appear on pages 30 and 31.
53 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required, are communicated across the Company and designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and management issues are identified, considered and escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
The Board believe that this management structure ensures a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its implementation within an effective control environment.
Risk review The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place throughout 2007 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2007.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors as required by the Code.
A Risk Management Committee, which during 2007 consisted of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the Director of Group Human Resources, the Head of Internal Audit and the Head of Tax and Treasury, meets at least four times each year and otherwise as necessary.
All Directors receive copies of the minutes from each Risk Management Committee meeting.
The Risk Management Committee enhances managements ability to review and monitor the effectiveness of risk control on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
Risk review is a continuing process embedded within the businesses with executives required to include risk management on agendas for their regular management meetings and to report to the Risk Management Committee on actions taken to review the effectiveness of their controls.
Businesses are also required to have processes to formally identify risks, consider their financial and non-financial implications and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
The Company has an internal audit department.
The resources of this department are augmented with independent expert external resources wherever necessary to review risk and monitor compliance with the Companys policies and procedures across its international operations.
Accordingly the resources of the department, together with the additional available resources, are considered adequate.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal controls based on the processes implemented by the Risk Management Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee receives a presentation from the Head of Internal Audit on action taken to identify and reduce risks and to increase the awareness of both risk management and the importance of having effective internal controls, across the businesses.
Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Company.
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the Finance Director.
The legal and governance compliance functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary and General Counsel, whilst the Chief Executive, supported by the Director of Group Human Resources and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, reports to the Board on corporate responsibility issues.
Policies and processes are in place to ensure that the activities undertaken in relation to all such matters are designed to reduce the risk profile of the Company.
The Company operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at both divisional and corporate level.
This process includes the analysis of significant risks relating to market trends and operational performance.
Monthly performance is reported against budget and the prior year and forecasts are updated as appropriate.
Monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances and report on performance indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and movements on updated forecasts being reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial reporting or other matters in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing policy.
54 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 37, their responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on pages 102 to 103, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of unaudited Interim Management Statements, as required by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, providing an explanation of material events and transactions that have taken place during the relevant period and their impact on the financial position of the Company and the Group and a general description of the financial position and performance of the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
55 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
