74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 20 Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Council's Combined Code on businesses, together with the managing director and finance corporate governance is part of the Listing Rules of the director.
The committee is responsible for the approval of Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and contractual Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 35 set out how commitments below the level that the board has reserved to the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
itself for decision, and for certain operational, administrative and other routine matters.
The committee also regularly During 2007, JL Wilkinson was appointed an executive reviews and reports to the board on the performance of the director and JC Gonzalez, an independent non-executive groups businesses.
At least 10 meetings are held each year director, was appointed as a member of the audit committee.
and other senior executives frequently attend by invitation.
Nominations committee The company continues substantially to comply with the The nominations committee is responsible for proposing Code, save for the exceptions disclosed in the directors candidates for appointment to the board having regard to the compliance statement on page 24. balance of skills and structure of the board and ensuring the Directors appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role.
The board and its role The committee meets when required and comprises PM Fallon Details of directors who served during the year are set out on chairman of the nominations committee, PR Ensor and four pages 18 and 19.
The board comprises the chairman PM Fallon, non-executive directors: Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount managing director PR Ensor, 11 other executive directors and Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, and JC Botts independent.
Two of the six non-executive directors committee's terms of reference are available on the company's are independent, one is the founder and ex-chairman of the web site.
company, and the other three are also directors of Daily Mail and The nominations committee met during the year to nominate, General Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
There are for board approval, JL Wilkinson as an executive director and clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one JC Gonzalez as a member of the audit committee.
They also individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board met to recommend to the board the re-election of directors although large does not consider itself to be unwieldy and retiring by rotation this year as set out in the Directors' Report.
believes it is beneficial to have representatives from all key areas of the business at board meetings.
There is a procedure for all Remuneration committee directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent The remuneration committee meets twice a year and additionally professional advice, at the companys expense.
They also have as required.
It is responsible for determining the contract terms, access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
All remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every performance related profit share schemes.
The committee also three years.
Newly appointed directors are submitted for election recommends and monitors the level of remuneration for senior at the first available opportunity after their appointment.
management and for the rest of the group.
The composition of the committee, details of directors remuneration and interests in The board meets every two months and there is frequent share options, together with information on directors' service contact between meetings.
Board meetings take place in contracts, are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong, and in other pages 25 to 35.
The committee's terms of reference are available locations where the group has operations.
The board has on the company's web site.
delegated specific aspects of the groups affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within defined terms of Audit committee reference.
Details of these are set out below.
However, to Details of the members and role of the audit committee are ensure its overall control of the group's affairs, the board has set out on page 23.
On November 15 2006, JC Gonzalez reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings independent non-executive director was appointed a are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and member of the committee.
The committee's terms of manage material risks, to review trading performance, ensure reference are available on the company's web site.
adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures are established to Tax and treasury committee ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
committee are set out in the Directors' Report on page 11.
Executive committee Non-executive directors Chaired by the company's chairman, the executive committee The non-executive directors bring both independent views and also comprises the divisional directors of the groups main the views of the companys major shareholder to the board.
20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 21 The non-executive directors, whose biographies can be found roles since founding the company in 1969 and has been a on page 19 of the accounts, are: The Viscount Rothermere, non-executive director since 1992 and hence, under the Code, Sir Patrick Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, JP Williams, JC Botts and is not considered independent.
At least once a year the company's chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive The Viscount Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, and JP Williams are also directors being present.
executive directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is run as The board considers JC Botts and JC Gonzalez to be a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of Daily Mail independent non-executive directors.
Although JC Botts has and General Trust plc and these directors have no involvement been on the board for more than the recommended term of in the day-to-day management of the company.
They bring nine years under the Code, the board believes that his length valuable experience and advice to the company but the board of service enhances his role as an independent director.
does not believe these non-executive directors are able to JC Botts also holds options to subscribe for common stock in exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, nor Internet Securities, Inc. a subsidiary of the company.
However, does it consider their independence to be impaired by their the number of options held by JC Botts is not material to him positions with Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
However, their or to the company.
relationship with Daily Mail and General Trust plc means they do not meet the Code's definition of independence.
The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the company through his beneficial holding in Daily Mail and Board and committee meetings General Trust plc and because of this he is not considered Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of independent.
the meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the Sir Patrick Sergeant has a significant shareholding in the meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board and company and in addition has served on the board in various committee meetings attended by the directors during 2007: Board Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit Tax & treasury meetings committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year6 102332 Executive directors PM Fallon Chairman 6 10 3 0 PR Ensor Managing Director 6 8 3 2 NF Osborn 6 10 DC Cohen 6 10 CR Brown 6 10 CR Jones - Finance Director 6 10 2 RT Lamont 5 9 SM Brady 5 7 D Alfano 6 9 G Mueller 6 10 MJ Carroll 5 9 CHC Fordham 6 9 JL Wilkinson 3 9 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 2 2 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 0 3 CJF Sinclair 6 2 3 JP Williams 6 3 2 JC Botts 4 2 3 3 JC Gonzalez 3 2 Appointed a director on March 21 2007 Appointed to audit committee on November 15 2006 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 21 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 22 Corporate Governance continued Board and committee effectiveness the board divides the groups key risks into six broad During the year the board, through its chairman, assessed categories and reviews and assesses each of these at least its performance and that of its committees.
The chairman annually: distributed a detailed questionnaire to each of the board the board seeks assurance that effective control is being members and together with personal interviews evaluated the maintained through regular reports from business group strengths and weaknesses of the board and its members.
In management, the audit committee and various addition, each of the main committees completed a detailed independent monitoring functions: and questionnaire encompassing key areas within their mandates.
the board approves the annual forecast after The results of the assessment were presented and discussed at performing a review of key risk factors.
Performance a board meeting and it was concluded that the board and its is monitored regularly by way of variances and key committees had been effective throughout the year.
performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
Communication with shareholders The board considers longer-term financial projections The company's chairman, together with the board, as part of its regular discussions on the groups encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
held, both in the US and UK, to discuss annual and interim results and highlight significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
Private shareholders Quality, integrity of personnel and whistle are encouraged to participate in the annual general meeting.
blowing arrangements In line with best practice all shareholders have at least The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured 20 working days notice of the annual general meeting at through high recruitment standards and a commitment which the executive directors, non-executive directors and to management and business skills training.
High-quality committee chairs are available for questioning.
personnel are an essential part of the control environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by Internal control and risk management management and through the employee handbook which is The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control provided to all employees.
The employee handbook also sets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to out the procedures available to staff to raise, in confidence, manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not other matters.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Social responsibility In accordance with the guidance published by the Internal The group is keen to maintain a high level of social Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered responsibility and has procedures embedded in its internal Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Report, the systems and controls to ensure its social standards are board has implemented a continuing process for identifying, monitored regularly and are not breached.
The group evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the group.
supports and encourages employees who become involved in social projects and examples of these are given in the The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups Directors' Report.
system of internal control and has taken account of material developments which have taken place since September 30 Environmental responsibility 2006.
It has considered the major business and financial risks, The group does not operate directly in industries where there the control environment and the results of internal audit.
is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
It does not print Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk products in-house or have any investments in printing works.
management further into the operations of the group and to It takes its environmental responsibility seriously and complies deal with areas of improvement which have come to with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in each managements and the boards attention.
country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of environmental issues when placing Key procedures which the directors have established with a contracts with suppliers of goods and services and these view to providing effective internal control, and which have suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
For instance, been in place throughout the year, are as follows: the group's two biggest print contracts are outsourced to companies who have environment management systems The board of directors compliant to the ISO 14001 standard.
The paper used for the the board normally meets six times a year to consider group's publications is produced from pulp obtained from group strategy, risk management, financial performance, sustainable forests, manufactured under strict, monitored and acquisitions, business development and management issues: accountable environmental standards.
The group is not a the board has overall responsibility for the group and heavy user of energy: however, it does manage its energy there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved requirements sensibly using low-energy office equipment for decision by the board: where possible and using a common sense approach such as each executive director has been given responsibility for switching off equipment, air-conditioning, heating and lights specific aspects of the groups affairs: when not required.
22 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 23 November 15 2006, JC Gonzalez and meets three times each Health and safety The group is committed to the health and safety of its employees financial year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the interim report, the annual report and accounts and other and communities in which it operates.
The group complies with all local health and safety regulations and makes use of external related formal statements before their submission to the board, and reviewing and overseeing controls necessary to health and safety advisors where appropriate.
The UK businesses benefit from a monthly assessment of the working environment ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee advises the board by experienced assessors and regular training of all existing and new UK employees in health and safety matters.
on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work.
It has set and applied a formal policy, which focuses on the Investment appraisal effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external The managing director, finance director and business group audit, the type of non-audit work permissible and a diminimus managers consider proposals for acquisitions and new level of fees acceptable.
Any non-audit work performed businesses.
Proposals beyond specified limits are put to outside this remit is assessed and where appropriate approved the board for approval and are subject to due diligence by by the committee.
The committee discusses the nature, scope the groups finance team and, if necessary, independent and findings of the audit with the external auditors and advisers.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorization considers and determines relevant action in respect of any controls.
For capital expenditure above specified levels, detailed control issues raised by the external auditors.
The audit written proposals must be submitted to the board and reviews committee is also responsible for monitoring and assessing the are carried out to monitor progress against budget.
effectiveness of internal audit, and reviews the internal audit programme and receives periodic reports on its findings.
It Accounting and computer systems controls reviews the whistle blowing arrangements available to staff.
and procedures The audit committee's terms of reference are available on the Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed company's website.
and communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention is paid to authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
The Going concern basis groups tax, financing and foreign exchange positions are After making enquiries, the directors have formed a overseen by the tax and treasury committee, which meets at judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, least twice a year.
Controls and procedures over the security of that there is a reasonable expectation that the group has data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed and are adequate resources to continue in operational existence for subject to internal audit.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Internal audit statements.
The group has an internal audit function which is managed by Daily Mail and General Trust Plc's internal audit department, working closely with the company's finance director.
Internal Statement of directors responsibilities in respect audit draws on the services of the group's central finance team of the accounts to assist in completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report aims to provide an independent assessment as to whether and the financial statements.
The directors have chosen effective systems and controls are in place and being operated to prepare accounts for the group in accordance with to manage significant operating and financial risks.
It also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted aims to support management by providing cost effective by the European Union, the Companies Act 1985 and Article recommendations to mitigate risk and control weaknesses 4 of the IAS Regulation, and for the company in accordance identified during the audit process, as well as provide insight with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice into where cost efficiencies and monetary gains might be made United Kingdom Accounting Standards applicable law.
by improving the operations of the business.
Businesses and central departments are selected for an internal audit visit on a In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required risk-focused basis, taking account of the risks identified as part to prepare financial statements for each financial year which of the risk management process: the risk and materiality of give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company each the group's businesses: the scope and findings of external and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
audit work: and the departments and businesses reviewed In preparing these financial statements, the directors are previously and the findings from these reviews.
This approach required to: ensures that the internal audit focus is placed on the higher risk select suitable accounting policies and apply them areas of the group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth consistently: of coverage.
DMGT's internal audit reports its findings to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable management and to the audit committee.
and prudent: state whether applicable UK accounting standards have Accountability and audit been followed: and Audit committee The audit committee comprises four non-executive directors: prepare the financial statements on the going concern JC Botts chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, JP Williams and, from basis.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 23 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 24 Corporate Governance continued In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Authority.
Save for the exceptions outlined below, the Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for group has complied throughout the financial year ended each financial year the company's financial position, financial September 30 2007 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful the Combined Code.
representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition Provision A.
3.2 states that half the board, excluding the chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework determined by the board to be independent.
The board comprises 19 directors of whom two are considered to be for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be independent non-executive directors.
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: Contrary to provision A.
3.3, the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director as the directors are properly select and apply accounting policies: of the opinion that all matters relating to the effective present information, including accounting policies, in a governance of the group must be dealt with by the board as manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and a whole.
understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Provision A.
4.1 requires that the majority of the nominations specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable committee should be comprised of independent nonusers to understand the impact of particular transactions, executive directors.
Although the committee consists of four other events and conditions on the entity's financial non-executive and two executive directors, only one of the position and financial performance.
non-executive directors can be considered independent under the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Provision A.
4.4 states that the terms and conditions of the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the appointment of non-executive directors should be available assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and for inspection.
As explained in the Directors' Remuneration detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Report, the non-executive directors do not have service preparation of a directors' report and directors' remuneration contracts.
report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity directors.
The remuneration committee is comprised of three of the corporate and financial information included on non-executive directors, none of whom can be considered the company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom independent under the Combined Code.
The audit committee governing the preparation and dissemination of financial is comprised of four non-executive directors, only one of which statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
can be considered independent under the Combined Code.
The directors confirm that these requirements have been satisfied.
On behalf of the board Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance throughout the accounting year with the 49 provisions of the Padraic Fallon July 2003 Financial Reporting Council's Combined Code on Chairman Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services November 14 2007 24 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
