Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Corporate governance Combined Code half the Board excluding the Chairman comprise independent non-executive directors from 1 January 2007 The Board of Experian is responsible for the Groups onwards.
The Board is committed The Board plans to have six scheduled meetings each year to good governance and to maintaining the highest standards of integrity in all the Groups activities.
This and may meet more frequently as required.
It had three statement describes how the Company has applied the scheduled meetings and one ad-hoc meeting in the period from listing until 31 March 2007.
One of these main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the meetings took place in Costa Mesa in California, Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by otherwise they were held in Dublin, Ireland.
It is inevitable the UK Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and amended in July 2006 the Code.
Experian complied that there will be occasions when circumstances arise to with the Codes provisions throughout the period from prevent directors from attending meetings.
In such circumstances, the usual practice is for the absent director listing on 11 October 2006 until 31 March 2007 except to review the Board papers and convey any views on that: 1 John Peace did not meet fully the independence specific issues to the Chairman.
The time commitment criteria set out in the Code on his appointment as Chairman, 2 the Board and its committees did not for expected of non-executive directors is not restricted to the whole period comply with the requirements in respect Board and Committee meetings.
They are available for consultation on specific issues falling within their of the number of independent non-executive directors, particular fields of expertise and additional time is spent and 3 no formal evaluation of the Boards performance visiting the Groups businesses and meeting informally or that of its committees or individual directors performance was undertaken.
These matters are with the Chairman and executive directors.
Together the explained later in this statement.
non-executive directors bring an objective viewpoint and range of experience to the Company which ensures that The Board no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Boards decision making.
At the date of this report, the Board consists of a There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Financial Officer and seven non-executive directors.
The names and to the Board for decision.
The Board establishes overall biographical details of the directors are shown on pages Group strategy, approves the Groups operating budget 38 and 39 of this report.
and monitors performance through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
The approval of The Chairman, John Peace, did not meet fully the significant acquisitions and divestments is a matter independence criteria set out in the Code on his reserved for the Board although it delegates to the Boards appointment as he was previously the Group Chief of the Companys principal operating subsidiaries the Executive of GUS plc.
The nomination committee of GUS responsibility for approving smaller acquisitions and plc which recommended his appointment was strongly of disposals.
The monetary limits of such delegations are the opinion that his appointment was in the best interests formally documented and the exercise of such delegated of Experian and its shareholders in view of his unrivalled authorities are reported to the Board at each of its experience of Experians business and markets and the meetings.
There are also authority levels covering capital need for the Chairman to have a close working expenditure which can be exercised by the Boards of the relationship with Experians Chief Executive Officer and its Companys principal operating subsidiaries.
Beyond these experienced global management team.
As a consequence, levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for the position was not openly advertised and external approval.
Other matters reserved for the Board include: search consultants were not instructed.
The Board of Experian endorses this view.
Approval of interim and annual financial statements.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks remained Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Experian respectively Internal controls and risk management.
following demerger also on the recommendation of the Succession planning.
nomination committee of GUS plc.
Mr Robert served on the Board of GUS plc.
They both had extensive knowledge Corporate responsibility.
and experience of the businesses from the period prior to The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the demerger in October 2006 and had demonstrated the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in exceptional skills and leadership in their current roles.
writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive Six of the seven non-executive directors are determined by Officer is responsible for day to day management and the Board to be independent in character and judgment performance of the Groups businesses.
The Chairmans with no relationships or circumstances which could affect, role is to ensure good corporate governance which or appear to affect, their judgment.
David Tyler was the includes leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness Group Finance Director of GUS plc and so is not in all aspects of its role.
For scheduled Board meetings, considered independent.
The non-executive directors are the agenda includes reports from the Chief Executive appointed for three-year renewable terms.
Sir Alan Rudge Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The January is the senior independent director.
Four of the meeting focuses on strategy, the March meeting deals independent non-executive directors were appointed with with the approval of operating budgets for the coming effect from 1 January 2007 and a fifth was appointed financial year, while the May and November meetings with effect from 1 April 2007.
The Company therefore cover the approval of preliminary and interim financial complied with the Codes requirement that not less than statements respectively.
Members of senior management 42 | Experian Annual Report 2007 below Board level are often invited to make presentations A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and to the Board and participate in certain aspects of the its committees is to be conducted in the year ending 31 strategy review.
Consideration was given to carrying out an evaluation earlier but with four of the directors not being The Chairman, with assistance from the Company appointed until 1 January 2007 it was decided that an Secretary, ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely evaluation during the year would not have been manner with information in a form and of a quality to appropriate.
The process will include the individual enable it to discharge its duties.
The practice is to have appraisal of each director.
The Chairman will be the agenda and supporting papers circulated to the Board responsible for these appraisals except his own which will one week before each meeting.
Additional information is be the responsibility of the senior independent director.
also provided to directors including monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board meeting is All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the scheduled for that month.
Arrangements are made for first opportunity after their appointment, if appointed by non-executive directors to visit the Groups businesses to the Board of Directors, and, thereafter, re-election at least see their operations at first hand and have the every third year in accordance with the Companys Articles opportunity to discuss them with local management.
Being the first year since the demerger, all the directors will be retiring at the Annual General The Chairman and the non-executive directors plan to Meeting and standing for election.
While a formal Board meet, at least annually, as a group without the executive evaluation has not been carried out, the Chairman and directors present.
At the conclusion of such meetings, the the Board are satisfied that the performance, contribution Chairman will withdraw so that, under the leadership of and commitment of each director is such that they the senior independent director, the non-executive recommend each director for election.
directors have the opportunity to discuss any appropriate issues and, at least annually, will appraise the Chairmans The letters of appointment for non-executive directors, performance, taking account of any views expressed by including the Chairman, are available for inspection by the executive directors.
any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent the meeting.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for Board committees ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice and services.
The Board has appointed a number of committees including the following principal committees: Nomination All directors receive an induction programme on joining Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit the Board which takes into account their particular Committee.
The terms of reference of each of the experience and background.
The process includes principal Board committees are available on request and information on the Group, its activities and operating can be viewed on the Companys website at procedures, meetings with senior management and site www.
Further details of these visits.
Additional training and updates on particular issues committees including their membership and remits are set pertinent to their role as a director are arranged for out below.
In order to ensure that undue reliance is not directors as appropriate.
Two days were set aside for placed on particular individuals, all the non-executive induction and training prior to the Board meeting held in directors are currently members of each of the principal January 2007.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and supporting the Chairman and the Board on all corporate the principal Board committees of which they are governance matters, a responsibility he discharges in part members was as follows for the period from listing until through his membership of the Corporate Governance 31 March 2007: Committee.
Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Scheduled Ad-hoc Committee Committee Committee John Peace 3 3 0 1 2 2 N a N a Don Robert 3 3 0 1 2 2 N a N a Paul Brooks 3 3 1 1 N a N a N a Fabiola Arredondo 2 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 2 Laurence Danon 2 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 2 Roger Davis 2 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 2 Alan Jebson 2 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 2 Sir Alan Rudge 3 3 0 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 David Tyler 3 3 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 Sean FitzPatrick was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2007.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 43 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Corporate governance cont.
Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger Davis, Alan Jebson and Sean FitzPatrick were all appointed The Board has established a Nomination Committee as members of the Committee following their which leads the process for Board appointments and appointment as directors.
Although not strictly in makes recommendations to the Board.
The members of accordance with the Code, David Tylers membership of the Nomination Committee are currently John Peace the Committee provides significant recent and relevant Chairman, Don Robert Chief Executive Officer and the financial experience and an in-depth knowledge of seven non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired Experians business, with him having been the Group by John Peace except in respect of any matter concerning Finance Director of GUS plc from February 1997 until the the chairmanship of the Company when the senior demerger.
The other members of the Committee bring a independent director takes the chair.
The Company wide range of international business experience from Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
It meets at positions at the highest level worldwide the directors least twice each year.
biographical details appear on pages 38 and 39.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Nomination Committee has written terms of Officer are normally invited to attend Committee meetings reference covering the authority delegated to it by the and each attended all of the meetings held in the period Board.
Its duties include reviewing regularly the from demerger until 31 March 2007.
The Company composition including the skills, knowledge and Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
experience required of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are changes, giving full consideration to succession planning set out in written terms of reference which are reviewed for directors and other senior executives: and identifying annually.
The Committees principal oversight and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates responsibilities include internal control and risk to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
management, internal audit, external audit including auditor independence and financial reporting.
Following the demerger, the Committee first met in November 2006 when its members were John Peace The Committee will meet not less than three times a year.
Chairman, Don Robert Chief Executive Officer and the In the period from listing until 31 March 2007, it met two non-executive directors.
As intended on demerger three times.
The external auditors, the Executive Vice and in accordance with best practice reflected in the President, Risk Management and the Head of Global Code, the Committee recommended the appointment of Internal Audit generally also attend Audit Committee five independent directors to bring an appropriate balance meetings.
In addition, the Committee meets the external to the Board.
The Board subsequently approved the auditors and the Head of Global Internal Audit without recommendations with the result that Fabiola Arredondo, management present.
Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and Alan Jebson were appointed as additional directors with effect from The Audit Committee has a structured programme linked 1 January 2007 and Sean FitzPatrick was appointed as a to the Groups financial calendar.
During the period under director with effect from 1 April 2007.
All five new review, the Committee undertook the following activities: independent non-executive directors have been appointed Reviewed the Interim Results Announcement and to the Nomination Committee.
Two specialist search considered reports from the external auditors companies were used in the process to identify the identifying any accounting or judgmental issues additional non-executive directors.
requiring its attention: Remuneration Committee Reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and internal auditors: The Remuneration Committee comprises the seven nonexecutive directors including David Tyler who is not Considered quarterly risk and assurance reports and considered independent.
Roger Davis is the Chairman of internal audit reports on the results of internal audit the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer reviews, significant findings, management audit plans are invited to attend Committee meetings and both and timeliness of resolution: attended all of the Committee meetings in the period Reviewed reports on the Groups risk management since listing.
Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger process and risk profile: Davis, Alan Jebson and Sean FitzPatrick were all appointed as members of the Committee following their Reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any appointment as directors.
In the period from listing to 31 material litigation involving Group companies: March 2007, the Committee met twice.
The Company Reviewed presentations on risk and its identification, Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee and the Group HR Director and Global Head of Reward usually management and control in Experian with senior attend.
The application of corporate governance principles management: and in relation to directors remuneration is described in the Reviewed arrangements by which Group employees report on directors remuneration on pages 47 to 58. may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Audit Committee One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit The Audit Committee comprises the seven non-executive Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in directors including David Tyler who is not considered relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal independent.
Alan Jebson is the Chairman of the of the external auditors.
A number of factors were taken 44 | Experian Annual Report 2007 into account by the Committee in assessing whether to The Committee receives half-yearly reports providing recommend the external auditors for re-appointment.
details of assignments and related fees carried out by the These included: external auditors in addition to their normal work.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried out in the year under The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee review are set out in note 5 to the financial statements on and the Board and the quality of advice given: page 81.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups Corporate Governance Committee businesses and its sectors: and In addition to the principal Board committees, the Board The objectivity of the external auditors views on the has established a number of other committees including a controls around the Group and their ability to coCorporate Governance Committee with written terms of ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
reference to assist in its monitoring of corporate Following the completion of the first year-end audit governance issues.
The Committees responsibilities process, the Committee will assess the effectiveness of the include keeping under review all legislative, regulatory and external audit process covering all aspects of the audit corporate governance developments that might affect the service provided by the Companys external auditors.
The Companys operations and making recommendations to Committee will also review a report on the external the Board in relation to them.
The members of the auditors own quality control procedures.
Corporate Governance Committee are John Peace Chairman, Don Robert Chief Executive Officer, Sir Alan The Committee recognises that auditor independence is Rudge the senior independent director and Charles an essential part of the audit framework and the Brown Company Secretary.
Non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors,  LLP, in Accountability and Audit respect of the period under review exceeded the audit fee and included fees relating to the demerger.
The The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Committee has established control processes to safeguard Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its the objectivity and independence of the external auditors effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather and to ensure that the independence of the audit work than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The The Committee has established a policy covering the type Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the key of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external procedures which have been established to provide auditors.
The auditors may only provide such services internal control.
provided that such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for services are: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including those risks relating to Further assurance services - where the external auditors social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process deep knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they was in place throughout the period under review and up may be best placed to carry out such work.
This may to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other the requirements of the Code.
For certain joint circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection arrangements, the Board places reliance upon the systems with acquisitions and divestments.
of internal control operating within the partners Taxation services - where the external auditors infrastructure and the obligations upon partners Boards knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
In the significant advantages which other parties would not Boards view, the information it received was sufficient to have.
Where this is not the case, the work is put out to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system tender.
of internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors contained in the Code.
General - in other circumstances, the external auditors The Audit Committee has kept under review the may provide services, provided that proposed effectiveness of this system of internal control and has assignments are put out to tender and decisions to reported regularly to the Board.
award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, competence and cost effectiveness.
However, certain areas of work are specifically prohibited including work were as follows: related to accounting records and financial statements Risk assessment: that will ultimately be subject to external audit: management of, or significant involvement in, internal The Group set out its objectives clearly as part of its audit services: any work that could compromise the planning process and organisation design.
These independence of the external auditors: and any other objectives were then incorporated as part of the work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
planning cycle and supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 45 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Corporate governance cont.
Risks were methodically anticipated, identified, assessed Relations with shareholders and appropriately mitigated as part of an enterprise The Company recognises the importance of wide risk management process operating throughout communicating with its shareholders and does this the Group on an ongoing basis.
through its Annual and Interim Reports, at the Annual Senior management made presentations on risk to the General Meeting AGM and through the processes Audit Committee, which reported regularly to the Board described below.
on the risks facing the Groups business.
Although most shareholder contact is with the Chief The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Board for considering operational, financial and supported by management specialising in investor compliance risks on a regular basis and received its relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to annual report on the controls over these risks.
This ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders included risks arising from social, environmental and takes place.
At each of its scheduled Board meetings, the Board reviews a report of all important or relevant issues raised Control environment and control activities: by shareholders during the course of meetings and The Group has established procedures for delegated discussions with them.
Additionally, the Board and in authority which ensure that decisions that are particular, the non-executive directors obtains an significant, either because of their value or the inherent independent insight into the views of major shareholders degree of risk, are taken at an appropriate level.
through research commissioned with a third party adviser across a balanced sample of Experians shareholders.
The The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to latter typically control some 20 to 30 per cent of the deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
The findings of the These strategies include internal controls, insurance and research are presented to the Board by the third specialised treasury instruments.
The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to There is a direct line of communication to the Chairman be adhered to throughout its business.
These include available to shareholders particularly if there are issues of risk identification, management and reporting concern, whether about performance, strategy or standards, ethical principles and practice, accounting governance.
Sir Alan Rudge, the senior independent policies, treasury policy, information security policy and director, is also available should shareholders have policy on fraud and whistleblowing.
concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Information and communication: Financial Officer fails to resolve or for which such The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary contact is inappropriate.
Shareholders are also offered control, including monthly performance reviews, for the opportunity to meet the Companys non-executive each major business.
These reviews are at a detailed directors.
level within each region and global business line and at Shareholders who do not support a particular AGM a high level for the Board.
resolution do not always seek engagement with On a monthly basis, the achievement of business companies to explain their actions or request further objectives, both financial and non-financial, was information.
The Company would be keen to understand assessed using a range of performance indicators.
These their reasons for any lack of support and to have a indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they dialogue with shareholders on these issues.
Its policy, remain relevant and reliable.
therefore, insofar as is practicable, would be to seek engagement with shareholders on such issues.
The Group had whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will Monitoring: attend the AGM and will be available to answer shareholders questions.
A range of procedures were used to monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group, Voting at the AGM will be by way of poll.
The results of including management assurance, through the ongoing voting at the AGM will be announced and details of the risk management process, and independent assurance, votes will also be added to the Groups website, through internal audit reviews and reviews by specialist www.
com, as soon as possible after third parties.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas considered to be of greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
46 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Report on directors remuneration 1.
Remuneration Committee 1.1 Role The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for: recommending Experians policy on the remuneration of Senior Management: determining the remuneration level and structure for executive directors and approving that of selected executives who report to the executive directors: communicating to shareholders on remuneration policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board: reviewing and recommending the design of the Groups share schemes.
The remuneration of non-executive directors and the Chairman is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
No director is involved in any discussions as to his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are also published on the Groups website www.
1.2 Membership and meetings Since the date of demerger of GUS plc, the Remuneration Committee has comprised the following non-executive directors: Roger Davis Chairman, appointed 1 January 2007 Fabiola Arredondo appointed 1 January 2007 Laurence Danon appointed 1 January 2007 Alan Jebson appointed 1 January 2007 Sir Alan Rudge appointed 6 September 2006 David Tyler appointed 6 July 2006 Sean FitzPatrick joined the Committee from 1 April 2007, his date of appointment.
In the period from listing on 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2007, the Committee has met twice.
Attendance at these meetings is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 43.
1.3 Advisers In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the Global Head of Reward who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and when appropriate.
They are not permitted to participate in discussions or decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives independent advice.
Towers Perrin, Kepler Associates Kepler and Linklaters have been the principal advisers to the Committee in the period under review providing market information and general remuneration advice.
A full list of the advisers who provided data or consulting services to the Committee during the year, together with details of other services provided by them to the Company, can be found on the Experian website.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee of GUS plc reviewed the remuneration policy for executive directors prior to the demerger of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee of Experian Group Limited has determined that the policy remains appropriate for the coming year.
The remuneration policy will be regularly reviewed by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee aims to have in place a remuneration policy for the Company which is consistent with its business objectives, and which can: 1. pay market-competitive base salary levels but no higher than this: 2. provide competitive performance-related compensation which influences performance, and helps attract and retain executives by providing the opportunity to earn substantial rewards for outstanding performance leading to long-term shareholder value: 3. apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth in all our businesses, thereby aligning incentives to shareholders interests: 4. provide a balanced portfolio of incentives - bonus, options and shares which align both short term one year and longer term three years plus performance such that sustainable growth and value are delivered: 5. provide accountability and transparency and align with the interests of shareholders: 6. deliver competitive benefits to underpin the other components of the remuneration package.
Consistent with the policy, the Committee reviews the elements of the remuneration package relative to other comparable organisations and other companies of similar size and scope to Experian.
Performance-related incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels for outstanding performance to produce a highly leveraged package if the Companys growth objectives are attained.
The Company is committed to performance-related pay at all levels within the organisation.
All employees are encouraged to participate as shareholders in the Company.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 47 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
2.1 Remuneration of executive directors The remuneration package is weighted towards the performancerelated elements of the package.
In fair value terms, the proportion of total pay excluding pensions and benefits which is variable is approximately 71 per cent, as illustrated.
The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures that align with the Groups strategic goals and that are transparent and clear to both directors and shareholders.
Each element in the reward package is designed to support the achievement of different Company objectives, as illustrated below: Element Purpose Delivery Policy a Base salary Reflects the competitive market In cash Individual contribution salary level for the individual Monthly Reviewed annually and their role.
Pensionable Takes account of personal contribution, skill and performance.
b Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of Cash deferred Profit before tax Co-investment Plan annual financial targets.
shares is the key measure Provides opportunity to re-invest Annual bonus in Experian shares.
Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery in shares.
c Experian Aligns with shareholder interests Shares, subject Relative total Performance through delivery of shares.
to performance shareholder return Share Plan Rewards sustained growth in conditions.
against a tailored shareholder value and out-performance comparator group compared to peers.
measured over a Acts as a retention tool as demerger three-year period, awards are released five years after subject to satisfactory date of grant.
Profit before tax over a three-year period.
d Experian Share Direct link to growth objectives Shares under EPS growth measured over Option Plan through EPS growth hurdle and to option, subject to a three year period.
value creation through share performance price increase.
Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery of shares.
Acts as a retention tool as options vest equally on third and fourth anniversary of date of grant.
e Sharesave Opportunity to invest in Experian Shares under Employees must shares over three or five year savings option bought be in employment on period.
with accumulated qualifying date savings at the end of in order to participate.
f Pension To provide market competitive Monthly Defined benefit scheme post-retirement benefits.
contributions US 401k defined contribution arrangements.
48 | Experian Annual Report 2007 a Base salary and benefits To ascertain the jobs market value, external remuneration consultants annually review and provide data about market salary levels and advise the Remuneration Committee.
Executive directors salaries are benchmarked against a mid-market level of main board executive directors from the comparator companies in the FTSE 100 Index and other global comparators which reflect the market in which we recruit talent.
Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the Committee assesses each directors contribution to the business, to reflect individual performance and experience.
In addition to base salary, executive directors receive certain benefits in kind including a car or car allowance, private health cover and life assurance.
b Annual bonus and Co-investment Plan Annual bonuses are awarded for achieving profit growth targets.
We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce our growth objectives.
Targets are calibrated by Kepler using benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations.
Benchmarks include: broker earnings estimates: earnings estimates for competitors: straight-line profit growth consistent with median upper quartile shareholder returns over the next three to five years: latest projections for the current year: budget: strategic plan: long-term financial goals.
2006 07 bonus For bonuses paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, executive directors were eligible for an annual incentive with a target of 50 per cent of salary and a maximum of 100 per cent of salary for substantially exceeding targets.
Actual bonuses awarded were midway between target and maximum level.
This is reflective of strong performance against targets.
The executive directors will be entitled to participate in the final cycle of the GUS Co-investment Plan as invitations to participate were issued prior to the confirmation of the demerger.
Participants in the GUS Co-investment Plan receive a matching award of shares which rises on a sliding scale up to 2:1 for maximum performance.
The matching awards will vest three years following the date of grant.
There will be no further awards under the GUS Co-investment Plan.
2007 08 bonus As disclosed in the demerger shareholder circular, it was agreed that for annual bonuses paid in respect of the year ending 31 March 2008, the maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors would increase to 200 per cent of base salary.
This level of annual bonus would only be paid if Experians financial performance surpassed stretching financial targets and hence would only be payable if exceptional results were delivered to shareholders.
The extension to the bonus opportunity for the executive directors was intended to recognise the global market in which Experian operates and to place a larger proportion of the executive directors total remuneration at risk and accompanied the reduction of the matching opportunity under the Experian Co-investment Plan to 1:1 previously 2:1 under the GUS Co-investment Plan.
Executive directors will not participate in the Experian Co-investment Plan for the 2007 08 fiscal year and any bonus payment will be made in cash.
2008 09 bonus For annual bonus earned in respect of the 2008 09 fiscal year, executive directors will be offered their first opportunity since the demerger to defer receipt of their bonus and invest it in Experian shares invested shares under the Experian Co-investment Plan.
The release of the invested shares will be deferred for three years.
Participants will have dividend and voting rights in respect of the invested shares.
The number of invested shares acquired on behalf of the executive will be matched with an additional award of shares matching shares.
The release of these matching shares to participants will be subject to the achievement of a performance condition.
The release of these shares will be deferred for three years including the original bonus deferral.
Dividends will be accrued on these awards.
If an executive resigns during the three-year period he she will forfeit the right to the matching shares and the associated dividends.
c Experian Performance Share Plan The Experian Performance Share Plan was approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006.
An initial award was made to participants, including the executive directors, on 11 October 2006.
There will be no further awards to executive directors under this plan until June 2009.
Performance shares are free Experian shares for which no exercise price is payable.
The award is communicated to participants as an allocation of shares which are subject to a performance condition which is measured over a three-year performance period with a five-year vesting period.
Dividends will accrue on these awards.
For the above demerger awards granted in October 2006, the performance condition is in two separate parts: 50 per cent of the award will be subject to achievement against a sliding scale of growth in profit before tax PBT.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7 per cent per year at which 25 per cent of this part of the award will vest rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100 per cent of this part of the award vesting at a growth in PBT of 14% per year.
The remaining 50 per cent of the award will vest according to the performance of Experians total shareholder return TSR relative to the following group of peer companies: Acxiom Fair Isaac Harte-Hanks Alliance Data Systems Fidelity National Financial IAC Interactive Corp Bisys Group Fimalac Moodys Capita Group First American Reuters Group Choicepoint First Data Thomson Dun & Bradstreet Fiserv Total System Services Equifax Global Payments Experian Annual Report 2007 | 49 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
This bespoke comparator group consists of Experians main competitors in the business areas and countries in which the Group operates.
This part of the award will not vest if Experians total shareholder return defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends is below the median return for the comparator group.
Once Experian achieves median performance, 25 per cent of this portion of the award may vest rising on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent of this part of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
This can be summarised as follows: % of performance shares subject to the TSR Experian TSR ranking performance condition in the peer group that will vest 1st - 6th 100% 7th 85% 8th 70% 9th 55% 10th 40% 11th 25% 12th - 21st 0 The Committee considers that these are appropriate measures as they align the long-term interest of participants with those of shareholders and provide both internal PBT and external TSR focus for participants.
d Experian Share Option Plan The Experian Share Option Plan ESOP was approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006.
It is intended to align shareholder and participant interests through share price growth.
Options will vest subject to the satisfaction of a stretching EPS target which will be set prior to options being granted.
No awards will be made to executive directors under the plan until June 2009.
For each of the long term incentive plans, external consultants will be used to calculate whether and the extent to which the performance conditions have been met.
e Experian Sharesave All executive directors and employees of Experian Group and any participating subsidiaries are eligible to participate in Sharesave if they have been employed by Experian for a qualifying period.
Sharesave provides an opportunity for employees to save a regular monthly amount which at the end of the savings period may be used to purchase shares under option.
f Pensions Pensions are offered in line with competitive practice.
The retirement age for directors is 60 under arrangements which broadly provide a pension of two thirds of final salary, life assurance and ill health and dependants pensions.
Incentive payments such as annual bonuses are not pensionable.
The UK Finance Act 2004 made major changes to the taxation and regulation of occupational pension schemes and to the benefits which occupational pension schemes may provide.
The Company has had arrangements in place for a number of years which were designed to ensure that UK directors who were affected by the 1989 HM Revenue and Customs earnings cap were placed in broadly the same position as those who were not.
With the agreement of the trustees of the scheme, the Company decided to retain a notional earnings cap for its existing and future employees, with the exception of new senior executives who will be pensioned on full basic salary up to the Lifetime Allowance.
The Company has put security in place for the unfunded pension entitlements of UK executives affected by the earnings cap, by establishing Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefits Schemes SURBS.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements for each director.
g Service contracts Each executive director has a rolling service contract which can be terminated by the Company giving twelve months notice.
In the event of termination of the directors contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation to the extent appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
Performance graph The Committee has chosen to illustrate the total shareholder return TSR for GUS plc until demerger and Experian Group Limited against the FTSE 100 Index for the period since listing on 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2007.
The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured, as it is a widely used and understood index of leading UK companies.
The performance graph is shown below: The graph shows that, at 31 March 2007, a hypothetical 100 invested in GUS and subsequently, Experian on 31 March 2002 would have generated a total return of 174 compared with a gain of 143 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Non-executive directors remuneration policy The Boards policy on non-executive directors remuneration is that: Fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of Board Committees.
Remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high calibre non-executives.
Remuneration should be a combination of cash fees paid quarterly and Experian shares bought annually in the first quarter of the financial year.
Non-executive directors are obliged to comply with a shareholding requirement explained below.
Any tax liability connected to these arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind with the exception of the Chairman who has the use of a company car and private healthcare.
The fees of non-executive directors were reviewed on their appointment to the Board and will next be reviewed in 2008.
Fees will be reviewed in the light of market practice in FTSE 100 companies and anticipated number of days worked, tasks and responsibilities.
Base Fee a106,154 Senior Independent Director a19,437 Chair of Remuneration Committee a23,922 Chair of Audit Committee a31,398 Experian requires its non-executive directors to build up a holding in the Companys shares equal to one times their annual fee.
One quarter of their annual fee is used to purchase shares in the Company each year until they reach this holding.
They are included in the table of directors interests on page 58.
Non-executive directors do not participate in executive share schemes or other employee share scheme arrangements.
Non-executives do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment.
No non-executive directors letter of appointment provides for any termination payment.
Each appointment is for a renewable three year term but may be terminated by either party on one months written notice.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 51 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
The information set out in sections 5 to 10 below has been subject to audit.
Annual remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the full year ended 31 March 2007.
Salary and Annual Total Total 1 2 Fees bonus Benefits 2007 2006 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman 3 John Peace 875 875 34 1,784 1,181 Executive directors 4 Don Robert $1,300 $937 $104 $2,341 $2,393 4 Paul Brooks $596 $532 $242 $1,370 $1,068 Non-executive directors 5 Fabiola Arredondo a27 a1 a28 5 Laurence Danon a33 a33 5 Roger Davis a39 a39 5 Alan Jebson a40 a1 a41 6 Sir Alan Rudge a88 a1 a89 68 7 David Tyler 545 545 20 1,110 735 Former directors 8 Sir Victor Blank 358 31 389 197 8 John Coombe 64 64 60 8 Andy Hornby 43 43 58 8 Frank Newman 43 43 58 8 Oliver Stocken 64 64 81 The following shares were purchased for the former non-executive Directors of GUS plc over the two day period 20 and 21 July 2006.
The value reported below is included within the remuneration reported in the above table.
Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of a5,981 per trip to attend Board Meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location.
For the period under review Fabiola Arredondo did not receive this allowance as her travel to the Board Meeting did not include such travel.
Benefits to executive directors include private health care, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
John Peace was appointed Chairman of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006.
Until 11 December 2006, he was also Group Chief Executive of GUS plc.
The figures in this table represent his salary, benefits and directors fees for the whole of the financial year and were paid by Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc, his employer in respect of his employment in this period.
He did not receive a separate fee as Chairman of Experian Group Limited for the year ending 31 March 2007.
During the year under review, John Peace served as non-executive Chairman of Burberry Group plc.
He did not receive any additional remuneration for these services.
With effect from 1 April 2007, Experian Group Limited will pay his directors fees.
From this date his fee is 450,000 per annum.
From 1 April 2007 he is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long term incentive awards but will continue to receive a company car benefit and coverage under the Companys private healthcare arrangements.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks were appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006.
Don Robert remains a Director of Experian Finance plc.
The figures in the table represent sums paid for the whole of the financial year.
These sums were paid by their respective employers.
Experian Group Limited pays directors fees of a106,154 per annum and pro rata for the year ending 31 March 2007 in respect of their services as directors of Experian Group Limited.
Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table.
During the year under review, Don Robert served as a non-executive director of First Advantage Corporation for which he received a fee of US$51,000.
Benefit payments to Paul Brooks include payments for housing whilst he was on expatriate assignment in the US.
Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and Alan Jebson were appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 1 January 2007.
The figures in the table represent their fees and expenses from this date.
As is permissible under Jersey law, the Company has met the cost of the tax payment on their taxable travel expenses where applicable.
Sir Alan Rudge was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 6 September 2006.
Prior to this he was a non-executive director of GUS plc until 11 October 2006.
The figures in this table represent his fees and expenses for the whole of the financial year.
As is permissible under Jersey law, the Company has met the cost of the tax payment on his taxable travel expenses where applicable.
David Tyler was appointed to the Board of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006.
Until 31 March 2007, he was Group Finance Director of GUS plc.
He did not receive a separate fee as a director of Experian Group Limited for the year ending 31 March 2007.
During the year under review, David Tyler served as non-executive director of Burberry Group plc.
With effect from 1 April 2007, David ceased to be an executive director of GUS plc now Experian Finance plc by reason of redundancy: his contract provides for a notice period of 12 months or contractual pay in lieu of notice for 12 months.
Contractual pay on redundancy includes base salary 545,000, car and fuel allowance 18,200.
These payments were made in April 2007.
From 1 April 2007, Experian Group Limited will pay his non-executive directors fee.
From 1 April 2007 he is not be eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long term incentive awards.
Sir Victor Blank resigned as Chairman of GUS plc on 11 December 2006.
John Coombe, Andy Hornby, Frank Newman and Oliver Stocken resigned as directors of GUS plc on 11 October 2006.
The figures in this table represent their fees up to this date.
Transition arrangements on demerger of GUS plc The Chairman, the executive directors and one of the non-executive directors have existing long-term incentive plan awards previously approved and issued by GUS plc.
These existing long-term incentive plan awards include share options as described in section 6, awards under the GUS Performance Share Plan as described in section 8 and awards under the GUS Co-investment Plan and Experian Reinvestment Plan as described in section 9.
Each of these long-term incentive plan awards was subject to transitional arrangements on demerger of GUS plc.
Each award under the GUS plans has been adjusted to an equivalent number of Experian awards based on the GUS plc and Experian Group Limited share price at demerger.
Similarly, the share option exercise price of existing GUS awards has been adjusted to the equivalent exercise price for each Experian share.
Sections 6, 8 and 9 of the report on directors remuneration detail the opening GUS awards at 1 April 2006 and the changes to the original GUS awards on demerger.
Share options Details of options granted to executive directors, under the Groups executive share option schemes, are set out in the table below: Options Total Number of granted GUS Options number options at preOptions Original share rolled Options New of options 1 April 2006 demerger exercised GUS price on over into exercised Experian at 31 or date of over GUS prior to exercise date of Experian following exercise Date from which March appointment plc shares demerger price exercise shares demerger price exercisable expiry date 2007 Chairman !
The expiry date on John Peaces rolled over options is subject to limited extension for regulatory reasons.
Options granted to Don Robert prior to his date of appointment to the Board of GUS in April 2005 were granted under the GUS North America Stock Option Plan.
The 2005 and 2006 grants were made under the GUS Executive Share Option Scheme.
David Tyler was eligible to exchange his options and awards for equivalent options and awards over Experian shares on the same basis as other participants in the relevant GUS plans except that he was not eligible to participate in the Experian Reinvestment Plan.
To the extent that his options were rolled over, the new options will not vest or lapse in connection with his termination of employment.
In respect of such options, David Tyler will be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of the relevant plan rules if he ceases to be a non-executive director of the Company except as a result of voluntary resignation or actions which would constitute gross misconduct.
The relevant performance conditions apply.
No options were granted to executive directors on demerger.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 53 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
The GUS exercise prices represent the average of the middle market quotations of a GUS share as derived from the Daily Official List of The London Stock Exchange for the three immediately preceding dealing days to the date on which options were originally granted.
Options granted under the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes which were granted before 2005 were exchanged for equivalent options over Experian shares.
Unvested options granted in 2005 and 2006 other than options granted under the GUS 1998 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme were automatically exchanged for equivalent options over Experian shares.
The performance condition for options granted in 2005 and 2006 is based on the growth of Experians Earnings per Share in excess of the UK Retail Price Index from the date of demerger.
The market price of Experian Group Limited shares at the end of the financial year was 585.5p: the highest and lowest prices during the financial year were 631.5p and 559.5p respectively.
SAYE share option scheme Details of awards to directors under the GUS plc SAYE share option scheme are as follows: Options Total granted GUS Options number preOptions Original share rolled Options New of options Number of demerger exercised GUS price on over into exercised Experian at 31 options at over GUS prior to exercise date of Experian following exercise Date from which March 1 April 2006 plc shares demerger price exercise shares demerger price exercisable expiry date 2007 Chairman John Peace 4,394 4,394 384.0p 1009p 01.05.0631.10.06 Executive directors Paul Brooks 1,454 648.0p 2,488 378.6p 01.09.0729.02.08 2,488 Non-executive directors David Tyler 4,394 4,394 384.0p 1035p 01.05.0631.10.06 Former directors Sir Victor Blank 4,394 4,394 384.0p 1035p 01.05.0631.10.06 Oliver Stocken 4,394 4,394 384.0p 1035p 01.05.0631.10.06 Notes 1.
Paul Brooks also participated in the US s. 423 plan whilst he was based in the US.
He currently holds 296 shares under the 2005 plan cycle and 463 shares under the 2006 plan cycle in addition to those in the above table.
Experian ESOP Trust As at 31 March 2007, the executive directors were, together with other employees of the Experian Group, discretionary beneficiaries under the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and, as such, each director is deemed to be interested in 13,419,683 ordinary shares in Experian Group Limited held by the trustee of the Trust.
GUS Performance Share Plan In June 2006, executive directors received a share award under the GUS Performance Share Plan PSP with a face value of one times salary.
On demerger, these awards were automatically rolled over into Experian shares.
As approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM, awards equivalent to two times salary were made to executive directors on demerger in October 2006.
Both awards are outlined below.
For awards granted under the rolled over GUS Performance Share Plan awards the performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return TSR against the comparator group adopted by Experian see 2.1c above since the demerger.
Rolled over awards will not vest if Experians total shareholder return defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends is below the median return for the comparator group.
For these rolled over awards only, once Experian achieves median performance, 40 per cent of the award may vest rising on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
On demerger, awards made under the 2004 GUS Performance Share Plan were automatically transferred to participants.
These awards vested at 85 per cent of the original award.
GUS Performance Share Plan awards made in 2005 and 2006 were replaced with an equivalent award over Experian shares.
As John Peaces employment with Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc ended on 31 March 2007, under the rules of the Plan, all outstanding awards will vest subject to the performance condition on the original vesting date specified in the table, and will be time pro-rated to 31 March 2007.
Disclosures will be made in respect of vesting at the appropriate time 3.
David Tylers awards were rolled over on the basis described in footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 53.
Under the Plan rules, participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on release of awards under the 2004 GUS Performance Share Plan as follows, John Peace 63,864: Don Robert $28,769: Paul Brooks $20,618 and David Tyler 39,496.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 55 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
GUS Co-investment Plan and Experian Reinvestment Plan Awards to directors under the 2004 and 2005 cycles of the GUS Co-investment Plan and North America Co-investment Plan were reinvested in awards under the Experian Reinvestment Plan and North America Reinvestment Plan at demerger as approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM.
Awards under the 2006 cycle were automatically rolled over into equivalent awards over Experian shares under the rules of the GUS Co-investment Plan.
The share price on the date of award was 560p.
Release of matching shares under the Experian 3 Reinvestment Plan is subject to the achievement of performance conditions, the retention of reinvested awards and continued employment.
No further awards will be made under the Reinvestment Plan.
For the year ending 31 March 2007, Don Robert and Paul Brooks received a bonus of 72 per cent of base salary and chose to invest the whole of their bonus under the GUS North America Co-investment plan.
The invested shares deferred under these arrangements are not reflected in the table below as this report was published prior to the actual share purchase.
The related matching shares under these arrangements are also not shown in the table below.
They are not released until the expiry of a three-year period and the right to the matching shares is forfeited if a director resigns before then.
Invested shares for John Peace and David Tyler were purchased with the bonus net of tax.
The matching share awards are made on a gross basis and are taxed at the point of vesting.
Invested shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks were purchased with the bonus gross of tax.
John Peace was granted a matching award over Experian shares which will vest after three years if he continues to be Chairman of Experian, subject to the good leaver reasons included in the rules.
Details of this award were disclosed in the shareholder circular dated 26 July 2006.
The first 50% of a matching award under the Experian Reinvestment Plan will vest subject to satisfaction of a performance condition relative to a sliding scale of growth in Experian Groups profit before tax over a three-year period.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7% per annum at which 30% of this part of the matching award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part of the award vesting at growth in PBT of 14% per annum.
This part of the matching award will vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
The remaining 50% of the matching award will be time-based and will vest as to 50% of this part of the matching award on the third anniversary of grant and as to 25% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
David Tylers 2004 and 2005 GUS Co-investment Plan awards vested at the time of the demerger, and he did not reinvest these awards.
David Tylers 2006 GUS Co-investment Plan awards were rolled over on the basis described in footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 53.
Under the Plan rules, participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on release of the matching share awards under the 2003 GUS Co-investment Plan as follows, John Peace 223,419: Don Robert $55,095: Paul Brooks $26,358 and David Tyler 135,717.
Executive directors annual pension Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan SERP which is a defined benefit arrangement in the US.
The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.
He also participates in a defined contribution arrangement and the employer contributions to this arrangement during the year were $9,423.
Paul Brooks is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme formerly the GUS Pension Scheme.
His benefits within the Scheme are restricted by an earnings cap.
However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the Experian Limited SURBS Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefits Scheme.
The pension figures below reflect both his registered and non-registered entitlement.
The table below provides the disclosure of the above directors pension entitlements in respect of benefits from registered schemes and non-registered arrangements.
Additional Accrued Accrued Change in pension earned to Transfer value pension at pension at Transfer Transfer transfer value 31 March 2007 of the increase 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 value at 31 value at less directors net of inflation less directors Name per annum per annum March 2007 31 March 2006 contributions per annum contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 $000 pa $'000 pa $'000 $'000 $000 $'000 pa $000 Don Robert 252 204 4,006 3,257 748 41 649 000 pa '000 pa '000 '000 000 '000 pa 000 Paul Brooks 74 62 995 784 203 10 130 John Peace is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme.
His benefits are not restricted by an earnings cap, and therefore the pension figures in the table below reflect his registered Scheme benefits.
David Tyler is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme.
However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the GUS plc SURBS although part of this promise will be provided for by a funded arrangement, which was closed to future contributions on 1 April 2002.
The pension figures below reflect both his funded and unfunded entitlements and the additional year in respect of his leaving service agreement.
As Messrs Peace and Tyler took immediate retirement from the registered Experian Pension Scheme with effect from 31 March 2007, the figures shown in the table below give details of their pre-commutation, early retirement benefits payable from 1 April 2007.
Six former directors of GUS plc have been receiving unfunded pensions from the Company for a number of years.
At demerger, the pensions of three of the former directors were transferred to the SURBS that provides security for the unfunded pensions of executives affected by the HMRC earnings cap see section 2.1 f. Two of the pensions were transferred into the registered Scheme on 1 October 2006 and a payment of 107,900 calculated by the Scheme actuary was made by the Company to the Scheme.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 445,646 2006:429,596.
Change in Additional Transfer value Pension in Accrued Transfer Transfer transfer value pension accrued to of the increase payment at pension at value at value at less directors 31 March 2007 less directors Name 1 April 2007 31 March 2006 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 contributions net of inflation contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 000 pa '000 pa '000 '000 000 '000 pa 000 John Peace 487 467 9,645 7,655 1,990 46 911 David Tyler 156 142 3,401 1,871 1,514 39 834 Notes: Columns 1 and 2 represent the deferred pension to which the director would have been entitled had they left the Group at 31 March 2007 and 2006, respectively, except in the cases of Messrs Peace and Tyler where column 1 represents the early retirement pension payable from 1 April 2007.
Column 3 is the transfer value of the pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2007 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant group pension scheme in accordance with UK actuarial guidance note GN11.
Column 4 is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2006 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column 5 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
Column 6 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
In Messrs Peace and Tylers cases, the additional pension represents the increase in immediate pension with allowance for inflation.
Column 7 represents the transfer value of the pension in column 6.
The disclosures in columns 1 to 5 are equivalent to those required by the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations and those in columns 6 and 7 are those required by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 57 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Report on directors remuneration cont.
Directors' service contracts In accordance with Don Roberts service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC dated 7 August 2006, if his employment is terminated by ESC without cause he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from the termination date: 12 months participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment: and an annual bonus based on a 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months.
The same amounts are payable by ESC if Don Robert terminates the contract: i following material breach by ESC: or ii for Good Reason following change of control of ESC.
Good Reason means during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Roberts position.
Don Roberts service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of Don Roberts death in addition to payments due but unpaid before death : a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on ESCs performance in that bonus year: and a lump sum equal to 12 months base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of death.
If the employment is terminated due to Don Roberts disability he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above in addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination.
Any deferred compensation obligations with respect to Don Robert will be governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
In his service agreement dated 2 April 2007, upon termination of employment at the absolute discretion of Experian Group Limited, Paul Brooks may be paid base salary alone, pension contributions and benefits in kind excluding bonus or incentive payments unless the Company in its absolute discretion determines otherwise in lieu of six months notice where notice is given by Paul Brooks or 12 months notice where notice is given by Experian Group Limited.
Save for the benefits described above, the service contracts of each of the executive directors do not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Combined Code The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in accordance with the principles of good governance and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Shareholding guideline Each of the executive directors meets the Committees guideline that, as a minimum, the Chief Executive Officer should hold the equivalent of two times his base salary in Experian Group Limited shares and other executive directors one times their base salary, including shares held under the Co-investment and Reinvestment plans.
Directors' interests The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests, in the Ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the Performance Share Plan and the contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment and Reinvestment Plans are shown on pages 53 to 56.
The directors have no interests in the debentures of the Company or in any shares or debentures of the Company's subsidiaries.
Experian Group Limited GUS shares at 31 March 2007 10 October 2006 Chairman John Peace 745,943 684,126 Executive directors 2 Don Robert 369,943 240,449 2 Paul Brooks 103,709 103,709 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Roger Davis 20,000 Alan Jebson Sir Alan Rudge 13,585 13,585 David Tyler 590,069 590,069 Notes: 1.
For regulatory purposes, as at 22 May 2007, there had been no changes in the above interests.
The number of Experian Shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks reflects shares awarded to them under the legacy GUS North America Co-investment Plan in lieu of annual bonus.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks have an unconditional right to receive Experian Shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
Prior to receipt they do not have dividend or voting rights in respect of such shares.
On behalf of the Board Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 22 May 2007 58 | Experian Annual Report 2007
