70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 26 26 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Compliance with the Code In the opinion of the Board, corporate governance sits at the centre of the relationship between the Company, its directors and its shareholders.
Corporate governance determines how authority and accountability are distributed throughout the Group and sets the framework for objectives.
The Board realises that it has a responsibility to shareholders to provide robust structures and processes and to observe standards of corporate governance reflecting developments in best practice.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code except for the following matters The Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director regularly meet institutional investors and analysts and provide direct feedback to the Board.
Generally, neither the Chairman nor the Senior Independent Director attends meetings with major shareholders, unless requested to do so.
During the year, the Company did not meet the Codes requirement that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Subsequent to the year end, the Board reviewed the balance of executive and non-executive directors skills and experience and concluded that the balance of the Board in future would be further enhanced by the appointment of an additional independent non-executive director.
Accordingly, on 30 May 2007 the Board appointed Mr R F Bennett as an independent non-executive director.
The Board will actively consider the appointment of a further independent non-executive director during the current year.
Applying the principles of the Code The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 41 and the Audit Committee Report on pages 31 and 32.
Directors Board effectiveness Biographical details of all current directors are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21.
The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic policy of the Group and to review performance in the areas of safety, operations, finance and risk.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention.
The schedule includes approval of the annual business plan, the risk framework within which the Group operates, Group policies and standards on financial and non-financial risk, significant transactions above defined limits, the entering into of significant new business activities and the scope of delegations to Board Committees and the Groups executive management.
Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting, including period and year to date financial reports: proposals for acquisitions, disposals and other investments: information about material business issues and significant contractual matters: and safety reports.
If necessary, the Board will defer a decision if non-executive directors request additional information.
The executive management of the Group is responsible for developing strategy, the performance of the Group and managing the Group in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Board.
During the year, the Board met formally on 11 occasions, mainly in Reading, but also in Aberdeen, Houston, London and Ulverston.
During the year, the Board received presentations from the management teams of the Regional and Global businesses and from other key functions, enabling it to explore specific issues and developments in greater depth.
70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 27 Annual report and accounts 200727 The following table sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the directors attendance at each.
Audit Nomination Remuneration 1 1,2 1,3 1,4 Board Committee Committee Committee C E Fay Chairman 11 3 Executive directors G F Coutts Chief Executive Officer 11 M J Speakman Finance Director 11 5 L J W McAlister Group General Counsel 8 6 G J Prise Chief Operating Officer 3 Non-executive directors R F Boyes Senior Independent Director 9335 T M Lazenby 10 3 3 5 T J C Eggar 10 3 3 5 Former directors 7 C P Ainger Corporate Development Director 4 8 M J Martindale Chief Operating Officer 7 Total number of meetings 11 3 3 5 Notes 1 The company secretary attends all meetings of the Board and of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
2 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management attend all meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer, the senior partner of the external auditor, other directors and senior managers attend as required.
3 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the Chief Executive Officer attends meetings of the Nomination Committee.
4 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee but neither is present when matters related to his own remuneration are discussed.
5 Mr L J W McAlister was appointed on 12 June 2006 and attended all Board meetings held after that date.
6 Mr G J Prise was appointed on 1 January 2007 and attended all Board meetings held after that date.
7 Mr C P Ainger resigned on 6 July 2006 and attended all Board meetings held prior to that date.
8 Mr M J Martindale resigned on 29 December 2006 and attended seven out of eight Board meetings held prior to that date.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer led the Company throughout the year, in accordance with the division of responsibilities between their respective roles previously agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the operation and leadership of the Board and for the balance of its membership, subject to Board and shareholder approval.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy, leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board, effective communication with shareholders and liaising with the Chairman, keeping him informed of all material matters.
Board balance and independence During the year and up to the date of this Report, the Board continued to be of the opinion that, excluding the Chairman, all of the non-executive directors Mr R F Bennett, Mr R F Boyes, Mr T J C Eggar and Mr T M Lazenby were independent within the meaning of the Code.
Mr R F Boyes continued to serve as the Senior Independent Director throughout the year and up to the date of this Report.
The independent non-executive directors review and monitor strategy, the performance of management, the integrity of financial information and control and risk management.
They are also responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and of senior executives below Board level and for planning Board and senior management succession.
Appointments to the Board Chairmans commitments Notwithstanding the other appointments of the Chairman, which are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21, the Board continues to believe that he remains exceedingly able to effectively carry out his duties and responsibilities to the Group.
Terms of appointment Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors will be available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 28 28 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees the Committee role is to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments, using a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for such appointments, reviewing the skills and experience and composition of the Board and ensuring the orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to other senior management positions.
Throughout the year, the Committee was led by Dr C E Fay as Chairman and Mr R F Boyes, Mr T J C Eggar and Mr T M Lazenby served as members.
The Chief Executive Officer attended meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The number of Nomination Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of Committee members is shown above.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
com and are available on request from the company secretary.
During the year, the Board and the Committee reviewed the terms of reference and concluded that they continued to be suitable for the Committees purposes.
Information and professional development On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an information pack, which includes details of the Group, its structure and strategy and the legal and regulatory framework in which it operates.
Following a directors appointment, and in order to accelerate his understanding of the business, he will visit the Groups key locations and receive presentations by local management teams.
Regular presentations are made to the Board by the senior management team, covering the progress of major projects, organisational changes and integration of acquisitions.
A six monthly review of the Groups safety performance is conducted by the Board, in addition to a monthly review of safety and quality.
Procedures are in place to allow directors access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense and to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Other regulatory developments are presented to the Board as required, in order to ensure that directors are equipped to fulfil their roles on the Board and its Committees effectively.
Performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman led the annual formal evaluation of the Board and its principal Committees, through an internal evaluation process allowing an appropriately tailored approach.
Following the evaluation, the Chairman confirmed that the Board and its main Committees had functioned well during the year and that the performance of individual directors supported this view, with each making a significant contribution.
Matters arising from the evaluation had been discussed and would be addressed either immediately, or as appropriate to the business cycle.
The Board agreed that the review processes had proved successful in highlighting areas for improvement, although no significant problems had been identified, and that similar approaches to Board evaluation would be considered in future.
The same evaluation process was used by the Senior Independent Director, during the formal feedback discussion to review and evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Election of directors The Committee and the Board reviewed the results of the Boards evaluation of its own performance, and that of the non-executive directors, and concluded that its recommendation of the directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM is consistent with the Board development policy and plan and with the results of the Board evaluation.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr M J Speakman will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer himself for re-election.
The directors appointed Mr G J Prise as a director during the year and Mr R F Bennett was appointed as a director subsequent to the year end.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, they will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
On behalf of the Board, the Chairman confirms that on the basis of the results of the annual evaluation of the Board and of the performance of individual directors, the performance and commitment of Mr Speakman and Mr Prise throughout their periods of office was highly satisfactory.
The Board is of the opinion that Mr Bennett brings to the Company a wealth of experience of sophisticated financial structures and processes.
The Board strongly supports the re-appointment of Mr Speakman, Mr Prise and Mr Bennett and recommends shareholders to vote in favour of their re-appointment at the AGM.
Biographical details of Mr Speakman, Mr Prise and Mr Bennett are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21.
70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 29 Annual report and accounts 200729 Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 33 to 41.
Accountability and audit Going concern The financial statements which appear on pages 46 to 89 have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal control The Company has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code, by establishing an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process is regularly reviewed, by the Board and in accordance with the provisions of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in October 2005.
The process was reviewed by the Board during the year and remains in place at the date of this Report.
The continuation of a programme to integrate internal control and risk management into the operations of the business remains a priority.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and that of the work of the internal audit function.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board, as part of a regular review process, has conducted a review during the year of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Where applicable, action has been taken to remedy significant issues identified from this review.
The key features of the system of internal control include An Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and comprising all the executive directors and certain senior executives as members, meets to monitor key aspects of the business and those aspects of internal control and risk management procedures which have been delegated to executive management.
An integrated risk management system throughout the Group, where each significant risk is assigned to a responsible manager, who is supported by a director who is accountable to the Board.
The controls for managing each significant risk are analysed as part of an ongoing process and monitored by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
A comprehensive monthly system of reporting to the Board, based on the Groups financial performance against the annual business budget with monthly variance analysis, a rolling monthly forecast of revenue and profitability to the end of the current financial year, tender, contractual and marketing data.
A formal system of appraisal is documented and applied to all potential contract bids, project expenditure and detailed contract terms and conditions.
Key Group-wide financial, marketing, safety, quality and resource management systems operate in the major worldwide locations.
Monitoring of the internal control and risk management system is carried out by an independent internal audit function.
Audit Committee and auditors The Audit Committee Report appears on pages 31 and 32.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Group maintains an active two-way dialogue with its institutional shareholders, via a planned programme of communication headed by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
This is usually conducted through briefings with analysts and institutional shareholders, following the announcement of interim and year end results, generally in London and Edinburgh, but also in the USA, together with site visits and discussions with individual institutions.
Institutional shareholders, analysts and media representatives are invited to meet the executive directors and senior management at a key business location each year, to discuss the Groups financial results and business strategy.
The aim is to ensure that the performance, strategies and objectives of the Group are well understood by stakeholders and, in addition, that any corporate governance and CSR issues are reviewed and addressed.
70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 30 30 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued The Board receives regular feedback from its brokers and financial PR agency.
The Board considers that the current arrangements for communication between the Company and its shareholders are satisfactory and effective and that routine meetings between shareholders and the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are not necessary.
During the year, shareholders were able to access information about the Group, including share price and financial results, via the website www.
Constructive use of the AGM To date, shareholders have received a paper copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, the CSR Report and the Interim Report.
However, this will be reviewed for future years, following the implementation of provisions in the Companies Act 2006 permitting communication with shareholders by additional methods.
The AGM, held at the Companys head office in Reading, is an opportunity to facilitate communication between shareholders and the Board.
All executive directors attend the AGM and, if relevant, provide information on current trading.
In addition, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer questions on the activities of the Committees.
