70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 31 Annual report and accounts 200731 Audit Committee Report Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises independent non-executive directors appointed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference include all matters set out in the Combined Code and are reviewed annually by the Committee before being referred to the Board for approval.
The Committee is responsible for: reviewing the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing on accounting policies including compliance and areas such as management systems and processes: reviewing the activities and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk function: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: reviewing the procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties whistleblowing : making recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of external auditors and monitoring their performance and effectiveness: reviewing non-audit fees paid to the external auditors: and reviewing the CSR report.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying and making recommendations in respect of any areas requiring improvement.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
com and are available on request from the company secretary.
During the year, the Board and the Committee reviewed the terms of reference and concluded that they continued to be suitable for the Committees purposes.
Composition of the Committee Throughout the year, the Committee was led by Mr R F Boyes as Chairman.
The Committee considers Mr Boyes to be the financially qualified member, by virtue of his significant experience as Finance Director of Halifax Group plc.
Mr T M Lazenby and Mr T J C Eggar served as members of the Committee throughout the year.
Membership of the Committee is restricted to independent non-executive directors.
The biographical details of the Committee members are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21 and include information about their qualifications, skills and relevant experience.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed at regular intervals by the Committee Chairman and the Chairman of the Board, who recommend new appointments to the Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
Appointments are for a period of three years and are extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
An induction programme is provided for new Committee members, as is ongoing training, to enable all members to carry out their duties effectively.
The induction programme covers the role of the Committee and an overview of the Groups business, including financial dynamics and risk.
Ongoing training includes external training sessions and briefings.
Meetings The Committee met on two occasions during the year with the executive directors, senior management and external and internal auditors present, to review the current scope of the external and internal audit functions and to receive reports from the external and internal auditors.
On one of those occasions, the non-executive directors had the opportunity to discuss matters with only the external auditors in attendance.
The Committee met on one further occasion during the year, with the executive directors, senior management and internal auditors present.
Actions by the Committee During the year, the Committee: reviewed the financial statements in the 2006 Report and Accounts and the interim report.
As part of the reviews, the Committee received a report on the audit of the 2006 Report and Accounts, and review of the interim report, from the external auditors: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and related disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: 70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 32 32 Annual report and accounts 2007 Audit Committee Report continued agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their work in connection with the Report and Accounts and interim report: reviewed its own effectiveness: undertook an evaluation of the performance of the internal audit function: agreed a programme for the internal audit function: undertook an evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: and received reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management on the work undertaken by the internal audit function and management responses to proposals in the internal audit reports issued in the year.
External auditors As far as possible, the Board and the Committee take steps to prevent the external auditors objectivity and independence from being compromised.
The Committees written policy states that the Company will only use the appointed external auditors to provide services in cases where these services do not conflict with the external auditors independence and, in addition, agrees factors that confirm the external auditors independence.
In addition, the policy confirms the basis for the services permitted, both audit and non-audit, sets out financial limits and identifies services not permitted, thus limiting the scope of the external auditors involvement in the provision of audit and non-audit related advice as follows Audit related services In their position as auditors, the external auditors are best placed to undertake work of this nature.
Tax consulting Generally, the external auditors are asked to provide these services, which the Committee considers they are well qualified to do.
However, in certain areas of the world, and for certain specialist projects, other professional firms are used.
General consulting This work is usually subject to formal Board or Committee approval.
Projects are awarded to the organisation considered best qualified to perform the work.
Work required by International Financial Reporting Standards with regard to the valuation of intangible assets etc.
will not be performed by the external auditors.
Due diligence The external auditors are asked to provide due diligence on mergers and acquisitions, in situations where they are best placed to undertake this work.
The above controls give the Committee confidence in the independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the external auditors.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that it propose the re-appointment of the external auditors to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Internal audit The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the internal audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the Committee reviewed: the internal audit departments terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the Committee and Board: the internal audit departments plans and achievement of its planned activities: and the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer questions about the work of the Committee.
This report has been approved by the Audit Committee.
R F Boyes Chairman, Audit Committee 30 May 2007
