Corporate Governance Report The company is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment the group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and this statement and the Board Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 18 to 24 describe how the principles of good governance set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, are applied within the company.
Compliance The company complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, except in the following aspects: A.
2.2 The chairman was previously the chief executive.
3.2 At least half the board, excluding the chairman, has not comprised independent non-executive directors.
2.1 The Remuneration Committee comprised only two members in the period from the appointment of Mr P E Jolly as an executive director on 11 May 2006 until the appointment of Mr M L Hawker as an independent non-executive director on 4 July 2006.
Mr Jolly did not attend the meeting of the Remuneration Committee prior to 11 May 2006 when the remuneration for his executive role was discussed.
Predominantly, the areas of non-compliance set out above arise as a result of changes in the composition and structure of the board.
To the extent possible, the board is seeking to address these issues.
The companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Currently less than half of the board are independent non-executive directors.
The board is keeping the situation under review and will continue to strive to become compliant whilst maintaining an appropriate balance between refreshment and continuity.
The Board As at 31 March 2007, the board was made up of nine members comprising the executive chairman, four other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors, except for Mr D A Johnson, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Biographical details of each of the directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on pages 9 and 10.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive is clearly established and is understood by the board.
The executive chairman is responsible for the overall strategy of the group with the chief executive officer being responsible for implementing the strategy and for the day to day running of the group: he is assisted by the other executive directors.
The senior independent director is Mr G P Craig and he is the director whom shareholders may contact if they feel their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels.
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors present.
Directors are subject to election at the annual general meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
Any director attaining the age of 70 or, being a non-executive director having served for seven years on the board, is subject to re-election annually.
Every year the board assesses whether each non-executive director is independent against the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
Mr Craig and Mr Padovan were first elected at an annual general meeting on 1 July 1998 and have since then served for approximately nine years.
The Nomination Committee and the board have reviewed their performance as part of our board evaluation and concluded that they make an effective contribution as non-executive directors and in their roles on the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and have challenged the executive directors in an independent manner.
We have therefore reafrmed our view that each of these non-executive directors is independent in character and judgement.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, Mr Craig will stand for re-election by shareholders each year.
Mr Padovan, who is in his seventieth year, has decided not to seek re-election.
The board is actively seeking a suitable candidate to join the board as an independent non-executive director.
co. uk 11 Mr D A Johnson retired as an executive director on 3 July 2006 and was re-elected to the board at the annual general meeting as a non-executive director.
In line with corporate governance best practice, he will be subject to re-election annually.
Mr Johnson will not be considered to be an independent non-executive director: he also has a consultancy agreement with the company.
Following the annual perform evaluation of the non-executive directors subject to election or re-election, the board confirms that each individuals performance has been effective throughout the last year and they have continued to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Board Procedures The board met formally on six occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
All board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and committee papers are sent out as appropriate before meetings take place.
In addition to matters statutorily reserved for a board, there is an agreed Schedule of Matters reserved for the board for collective decision including: determining the strategy and control of the group: amendments to the structure and capital of the group: approval of financial reporting and internal controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed level: and corporate governance matters and approval of group policies and risk management strategies.
To enable the board to perform its duties effectively all directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the company secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a matter reserved for the board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the companys expense.
Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
The terms of reference for each of the Board Committees is available on request from the company secretary or on the companys website www.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of the board during the year to 31 March 2007: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee K Chapman 6 2 I J Bolton 6 D B Dutton 6 P E Jolly 6 1 P B Maudsley 6 G P Craig 6352 M L Hawker 4 2 1 D A Johnson 5 J M F Padovan 6352 Number of meetings in the year 6352 where an asterisk appears in the table the director listed is not a member of the committee from 11 May 2006 in the case of Mr P E Jolly.
Mr M L Hawker has attended every meeting of the board and of each of the committees from the date of his appointment on 4 July 2006.
Mr P E Jolly was not involved in the meeting of each of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee at which matters relating to his nomination as an executive director and corresponding remuneration package were discussed.
12 Board Effectiveness During the year an appraisal of the board, each Board Committee, and the performance of the individual directors was carried out.
The appraisal of the board and the committees was undertaken using questionnaires which were completed by each director as appropriate.
A summary of the responses was reviewed by the chairman prior to the submission of the results to the whole board.
Formal appraisals of the executive and non-executive directors individual performance were conducted by the chairman by holding a meeting with each director.
The non-executive directors, chaired by the senior independent director, meet once a year without the chairman present to assess his performance.
The senior independent director then discusses the results of that assessment with the chairman.
Relations with Shareholders The company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally through the Interim Report, the Annual Report and the annual general meeting.
In addition, a range of corporate information is available to investors on the companys website www.
The chairman, the chief executive, the chief operating officer and the group finance director are primarily responsible for investor relations.
Feedback from major shareholders is reported to the board and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the companys full year and interim results.
During the year the senior independent director has been available to meet with institutional shareholders if requested.
Although the non-executive directors are not at present asked to meet the companys shareholders, their attendance at presentations of the annual results is encouraged.
The board recognises that the annual general meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for and against the resolution is announced.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference and is comprised of only independent non-executive directors.
The committees report is set out on pages 18 to 24.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee operates under written terms of reference.
Its principal duty is the nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the board to ll executive and non-executive vacancies on the board.
The Nomination Committee comprises the chairman and the independent non-executive directors.
The meetings of the committee are chaired by the chairman.
The committees responsibilities include: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board in the future: being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the board candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise: before making an appointment, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of this evaluation prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the company and the market in which it depends: reviewing annually the time required for non-executive directors.
Performance evaluation should be used to assess whether the non-executive directors are spending enough time to full their duties: www.
co. uk 13 ensuring that on appointment to the board, non-executive directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings: keeping under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: advising the board on succession planning for executive board appointments: and considering any other matters the board may request.
Following the appointment of a new director, the chief executive in conjunction with the company secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the company and to his function within the company is given.
During the previous year, on behalf of the board, the committee undertook a search for the appointment of a new chief executive.
After conducting this process, during which both internal and external candidates were considered, the committee made a recommendation to the board which subsequently resulted in the appointment of Mr P E Jolly, previously a non-executive director, as an executive director of the company and as chief executive on 11 May 2006.
The committee also recommended the appointment of Mr D A Johnson as a non-executive director and as a consultant upon his resignation as an executive director in order to retain the benefit of his extensive financial knowledge, commercial experience, and his knowledge of the group.
The group utilises the services of executive search consultants to identify prospective candidates where appropriate.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, meets at least three times a year and is comprised of only independent non-executive directors.
Mr G P Craig, the senior non-executive director, chairs the committee.
The committee, taken as a whole, is considered to have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the committee are summarised on pages 9 and 10.
The group finance director normally attends meetings by invitation and the committee also meets with the external auditors without management present.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings in part if appropriate and have direct access to the committee chairman.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
The chairman of the committee attends the annual general meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
The committees responsibilities include: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting and internal control procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risks: reviewing with the external auditors the nature and scope of their planned work: reviewing the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the board, focusing particularly on: i any changes in accounting policies and practices: ii major judgemental areas: iii significant adjustments resulting from the audit: iv the going concern assumption: v compliance with accounting standards: vi compliance with applicable stock exchange and legal requirements.
discussing any problems and reservations arising from the interim and final audits, and any matters the auditors may wish to discuss in the absence of the executive directors and other management, where necessary : reviewing the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors: considering the major findings of internal investigations and managements response: and considering any other matters the board may request.
14 The committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it considers it to be necessary.
The committee met three times in the year and its agenda is linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
The agenda is mostly cyclical such that the committee chairman approves the agenda on behalf of all members.
Each member may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The committee also reviews the whistleblowing policy under which employees may in confidence notify the company of any concerns, including inter alia matters involving financial reporting.
It also reviews the procedures for investigating and resolving any such concerns.
A copy of the whistleblowing policy is available on the companys website www.
The board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the group external auditors when engaged in non-audit assignments.
Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid such independence and objectivity being compromised.
The committee also liaises with the external auditors on the continuity and rotation of key partners from the external auditors in accordance with the Ethical Standards of the ICAEW.
The group policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and non-audit services, which is based on the principle that the external auditors should only undertake non-audit services where they are the most appropriate provider, categorises such services between: Auditor permitted services Those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which can be engaged without referral to the Audit Committee.
e. g. regulatory and other specialist financial reporting : Auditor excluded services Those engagements that the Audit Committee and the board do not consider appropriate for the auditors to undertake e. g. provision of outsourced financial or operational management functions : Auditor authorised services Those services for which it is appropriate to consider the use of the external auditors and for which the specic approval of the Audit Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service e. g. transaction support and advisory work, such as due diligence.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any assignment.
The Audit Committee reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external auditors.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee and approved by the board.
This disclosure of the fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP for both audit and non-audit services performed during the year is set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
A breakdown of the non-audit fees is included in the same note.
The external auditors and committee chairman have regular dialogue concerning matters of independence and a report is made formally to the committee on this matter at least once a year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the level of fees, independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Accordingly a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
The board annually reviews the need for such a function and has done so during the year.
The group does however have a function which performs a number of internal audit tasks across the divisions and this, together with the fact that during the year, there were no adverse trends evident from the monitoring of internal controls or unexpected or unacceptable results of a material nature, has led the board to conclude that at present a dedicated internal audit function is not necessary.
The board will continue to keep this matter under review.
Risk Management and Internal Control The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
For the whole of the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, the board has had formal procedures in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all the significant aspects of internal control and has worked closely with the external auditors in assessing and ensuring their effectiveness.
co. uk 15 The board has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
This review has covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial.
The formal process followed, and reviewed by the board, to assess the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for directors on the Combined Code, and is part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
This process is summarised as follows: Operating management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the operating units and for putting in place procedures to mitigate, manage and monitor risks: Operating units formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the operations, the controls in place and additional controls which could be implemented.
These proposals are approved by each operating units management and submitted in the form of risk action plans to group executive management for review and approval.
Any significant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the board by the finance director to ensure that appropriate initiatives are developed and implemented to manage those risks.
The board is advised in this process by the Audit Committee: The risk and control identication and management process is monitored and periodically reviewed by group executive management: The key elements of the controls framework within which the group operates are: an organisational structure with clearly dened lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements: an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating company management and the group executive management on matters relating to risk and control: dened expenditure authorisation levels: operating reviews covering all aspects of each business are conducted by group executive management each quarter: a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the chairman and the chief executive.
The board approves the overall groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the group finance director and periodic reporting to the board on the groups tax and treasury position.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk framework as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group: that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare those for the company in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
16 In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern The directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the financial statements, that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
