Corporate governance The Company applies all of the main and supporting Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the that at least one half of the Board, excluding the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by Chairman, is made up of Non-Executive Directors who are the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
considered by the Board to be independent.
The Directors The way in which it applies those principles is set out are satisfied that the current Board possesses the breadth below.
Except as described in paragraph 1.1 b below, the of business, financial and international experience Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 necessary to manage effectively an organisation of of the Code.
the size and complexity of the Group.
1 The Board and its principal committees c Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Details of the Board, its members and its principal The Chairman committees are set out below.
The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written statement of responsibilities which has been 1.1 The Board approved by the Board: a Board structure and responsibilities The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four The Chairman is responsible for: Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets at least eight times each year and is leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on responsible for setting and reviewing the Companys all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into strategy and objectives, reviewing the financial and account the issues relevant to the Group and the operational performance of each of the Groups business concerns of all Board members: units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Groups annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a Secretary, the provision of accurate, timely and clear regular basis its longer-term business plans.
It also has a information to the Board: schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including approval of the annual and interim financial statements, ensuring effective communication with shareholders financing arrangements, material capital commitments, and that the Board develops an understanding of the business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with views of major investors: regulatory authorities and operating and accounting managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is policies.
allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious issues: During the year, the Board met eight times and all members of the Board attended all meetings held whilst ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of they were Directors except for Audrey Baxter who was the Board as a whole, its Committees and individual absent from one of these meetings.
Directors: taking the lead in identifying and meeting the The Board also held a number of separate strategy development needs of individual Directors and the meetings.
Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: b Board balance and independence The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive been reviewed against the definition of independence in Directors and ensuring constructive relations between the Code.
David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Sievwright and Audrey Baxter are considered to be ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company independent within this definition.
As Martyn Williams is an Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, he cannot be induction programme to ensure their early contribution considered to be independent.
However, the Board feels to the Board: and very strongly that it is extremely beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Board in this way so encouraging active engagement by all members of the that important employee-related issues can be raised at Board.
the highest level and a two-way communication process between the management of the Company and its The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance employees is maintained.
evaluation review, that Martin Gilberts significant and indepth knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined with his external business experience enables 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 him to provide effective leadership of the Board and to division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to continue to make a positive contribution to the Groups ensure that the Board is properly informed about the ongoing business.
performance of and current issues facing that division.
Management give presentations on current issues facing The Chairmans other significant business commitments, the business.
A number of Board meetings each year are which remain unchanged from last year, are described in held on site at operating locations in the UK and US his biography on page 22.
The Board performance allowing the Directors to visit the Groups operations and evaluation process confirmed that the other Board to discuss key issues with local operational management members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the and stakeholders.
necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his duties as Chairman.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek The Chief Executive independent professional advice at the Companys The Chief Executive is Moir Lockhead.
The Chief expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company Executive also has a written statement of responsibilities Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on which has been approved by the Board: corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, running the day-to-day business of the Group, within which is tailored to their individual needs.
This includes the authorities delegated to him by the Board: meetings with senior management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information is provided on their ensuring implementation across the Group of the responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and policies and strategy set by the Board for the Group: best practice guidelines.
The induction process is day-to-day management of the executive and senior supported during the year by the programme of business management team: presentations and operational visits described above.
leading the development of senior management The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes within the Group with the aim of assisting the training to the law and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
and development of suitable individuals for future Director roles: f Performance evaluation ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely During the course of the year, the Board undertook an manner of the issues facing the Group and of any evaluation of its performance.
The Chairman led the important events and developments: and process, assisted by the Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure that the Board, leading the development of the Groups future strategy its Committees and each individual Director continued including identifying and assessing opportunities for to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities the growth of its business and reviewing the expected of them, and also to identify any additional performance of its existing businesses.
A tailored questionnaire was developed, which each Director completed.
The d Senior Independent Non-Executive Director responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting of David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is Director led a process of evaluation of the performance available to shareholders if they have concerns that of the Chairman.
No significant issues were raised in the contact through the normal channels of Chairman, course of the evaluation process.
Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
g Re-election of Directors As required by the Companys Articles of Association, e Information and professional development of Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once Board members every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be is required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual next Annual General Meeting.
The biographical details of Board members have direct access to senior executives all the Directors, including those seeking re-election at the should they wish to receive additional information on any 2007 Annual General Meeting, are set out on pages 22 to 23. of the items for discussion.
The head of each operating 25 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued h Appointment of Non-Executive Directors the Groups employees.
The Committee meets as required Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by and Non-Executive Directors.
They have letters of appointment, which are then put to the full Board for consideration.
External available on request for inspection.
search consultants are used to assist the process, where appropriate.
i Directors and Officers liability insurance The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability During the year the Committee did not hold any meetings.
insurance cover throughout the year as permitted by section 310 of the Companies Act 1985.
The cover was The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors renewed on 1 April 2007. forum, which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of each of the Companys UK subsidiaries, 2 Committees of the Board and serves a maximum of two three-year terms.
In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the terms of reference for which are The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors published on the Companys website and details of to accept a limited number of outside non-executive which are set out below, the Board has also delegated directorships, recognising that this is an effective way certain matters to Committees.
The principal such to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
However, no Committees are: such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to such 2.1 Executive Safety Committee ESC outside directorships is set out on page 33 of the The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a Directors Remuneration Report.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers and safety officers.
The ESC reviews the 2.5 Remuneration Committee Groups safety performance and practices, develops The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship safety policies and procedures and follows up on of Jim Forbes, met four times during the year and all outstanding issues.
During the year, a number of meetings members of the Committee attended all of its meetings were attended by independent safety experts and senior held whilst they were Directors except for John Sievwright representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the and Audrey Baxter who were each absent from one of Health & Safety Executive.
Details of the membership of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors 2.2 Executive Management Board EMB Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37, together with The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and certain senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear Executive.
It acts as a general operating management on page 34. committee and meets on a monthly basis to review outstanding issues and to consider the Groups 2.6 Audit Committee operational and financial performance.
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Dunn and includes David Begg, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and 2.3 Executive Committee Audrey Baxter.
It met three times during the year and all The Executive Committee comprises the Executive members attended each of those meetings whilst they Directors and meets on an ad hoc basis to consider were Directors except for Audrey Baxter who was absent matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Groups from two of these meetings and John Sievwright who was operations.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has absent from one of these meetings.
The Group Director of specific delegated powers within prescribed limits to deal Internal Audit attended each of those meetings and the with matters arising in the ordinary course of business Companys external auditors also attended two of those which need to be considered before the next scheduled meetings.
Executive Directors and other senior managers Board meeting.
attended where requested and as appropriate.
2.4 Nomination Committee and appointments to the Board The Board considers that each member of the Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman has sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the and includes David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
John Sievwright, Audrey Baxter and Moir Lockhead.
Martyn Williams attends meetings of the Committee at the Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and 26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 internal control policies and procedures for the The Committee may request the Executive Directors and identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
It also any other officers of the Group to attend its meetings but keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the none has the right of attendance.
Committee meetings audits conducted by the internal audit department and may be requested by the external or internal auditors if the external auditors, the consistency of accounting they consider it necessary.
policies and reporting across the Group and it reviews the half-year and full-year financial statements before The business considered and discussed by the they are presented to the Board.
Committee during the year included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year and full-year results, The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the the 2007 08 Group Internal Audit Plan and budget, Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity papers concerning any regular and special audits and and effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal an executive summary of each internal audit report, risk audit department is focused on areas of priority as identified analysis assessments and a review of the implications by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan of changes in accounting standards and the application approved by the Committee and the Board.
Reports are and implementation of International Financial Reporting sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units Standards.
and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are implemented.
3 Financial reporting The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of direct The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Groups external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Groups The Committee is responsible for making financial position and prospects to its shareholders, recommendations to the Board in respect of the employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external This commitment encompasses all published information auditors and, subject to the approval of shareholders, including but not limited to the year-end and interim recommends to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the financial statements, regulatory news announcements and external auditors.
The Committee is also charged with other public information.
A statement of the Directors monitoring the independence of the external auditors responsibility for preparing the financial statements may and the objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit be found on page 41. process.
The objectivity and independence of the external auditors is considered on a regular basis, with particular 4 Internal controls regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The majority of The Board has established procedures to meet the non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception requirements of the Code and its related guidance on of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential internal controls.
These procedures, which are subject to acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, current auditors knowledge of the Companys business evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by processes and controls means that they are best placed the Group.
to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken 4.1 Responsibility by the auditors during the year was associated with The Board has overall responsibility for the system of acquisition-related due diligence.
Details of the audit and internal control and assessing risk.
The responsibility non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit for establishing detailed control and risk management fee, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
The procedures within each subsidiary lies with the Executive external auditors have direct access to the Committee Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
A sound to raise any matters that may concern them.
system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Committee reviews with management a detailed objectives and can only provide reasonable and not analysis of the Groups financial information prior to absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
completion and announcement of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the external 4.2 Control environment auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical auditors also meet separately with the Committee and or and moral values and professionalism in all its activities, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
principles with which all managers and employees are The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim required to comply.
The Group has a Code of Business results go through a detailed verification and due diligence Ethics, which is part of the Groups Corporate Social process involving external advisers.
27 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Responsibility Policy and applies to all of its subsidiary management have reviewed the effectiveness of the undertakings, a copy of which is available on the systems of internal controls during the year.
Both from this Companys website.
process and as a result of planned reviews of operating units by Internal Audit staff, invariably a number of minor The Group has a defined divisional organisational control weaknesses are identified.
These weaknesses are structure with lines of authority and delegated discussed with management and actions are agreed to responsibility which allows the Board to plan, execute, address any weaknesses identified.
Follow-up visits to the control and monitor the business in a manner consistent operating entity then ensure that the additional controls with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business have been put in place and are working effectively.
No management is delegated to the Executive Directors and such weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall contingencies or uncertainties that would require direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
Board reserves to itself a number of specific items, which ensures that it retains control over key business decisions 4.4 Risks and uncertainties and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, that could have an impact on the Groups long-term taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate performance.
communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is monitored by an Executive Competitive pressures Director.
Our businesses compete in the areas of pricing and service and face competition from a number of sources.
4.3 Monitoring The Group adopts a financial reporting and information In UK Bus, our main competitor is the car as the cost of system which complies with generally accepted driving a car is generally perceived as less expensive than accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, bus travel, especially if there is more than one person in circulated by the Group Finance function to all the car.
In order to make bus travel a viable alternative to subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and the car we seek to work with local authorities to introduce procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
These bus priority measures and effect infrastructure changes are also available on the Groups intranet.
Budgets are that promote bus patronage.
prepared by subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both Group management and the The main competitor to our UK Rail businesses is again Executive Directors.
Monthly forecasts are completed the car and to a lesser extent, long-distance coach during the year and compared against actions required.
To mitigate the risk from Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of these pressures, the Group works with local and national operating performance, with a commentary on variances bodies to ensure that services are provided that meet or against budget, forecasts and prior year.
Similar reports exceed the requirements of our stakeholders.
are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored In North America our businesses cover a wide geographic on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate spread competing with several large companies and a in strategic reviews which include consideration of substantial number of smaller, locally owned or long-term financial projections and the evaluation of government owned operators.
Our competitors in the business alternatives.
yellow school bus business can also include school districts since most school districts operate their own A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical yellow school buses.
Similarly, while the majority of our reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail Transit and Services business streams are operated by of accountability from the subsidiary units to senior private entities, including several large companies, our management to the Executive Directors.
Transit and Services businesses also compete with many municipalities.
In North America our businesses compete A Control Assurance Questionnaire is completed by on service, quality and price.
each operating entity on an annual basis confirming that 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Legislation and regulation Given the magnitude of the claims involved and the length Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating of time until the ultimate cost is known the use of any safety procedures, equipment specifications, employment estimation technique is inherently uncertain.
requirements, environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating issues and considerations.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance These laws and regulations are constantly subject to costs by promoting a culture of safety in everything change.
The costs associated with complying with the that we do, through the ESC that is headed up by the adoption of new legislation, regulations or other laws Chief Executive.
could adversely impact the results of our operations.
Terrorism To mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes Terrorist acts and public concerns about potential the Group regularly lobbies both governmental and attacks could adversely affect demand for our services.
The Group has a Head of Security who is responsible for improved security awareness, implementation of good Labour costs practice and development of a passenger and employee Labour costs represent the largest component of the security structure.
Labour shortages, or low unemployment rates, could hinder the Groups ability to Economy recruit and retain qualified employees leading to a higher The level of economic activity affects the number of bus than expected increase in the cost of recruitment, training and train journeys taken by passengers in the UK.
Any and other staff costs.
changes in economic activity may impact on passenger numbers and hence our UK operations.
The potential To mitigate this risk, the Group seeks to structure our impact of this is reduced on certain rail franchises due recruitment and retention strategies to attract and retain to the existence of revenue share arrangements.
UK Bus operating companies, the Group has the ability to modify services by giving 45 days notice of such Fuel costs modifications.
Fuel costs constitute a significant proportion of our cost base.
Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly Risk Assessment by international, political and economic circumstances The Board has established an ongoing process for as well as natural disasters.
If a fuel supply shortage identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks were to arise from a national strike or world supply faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and difficulties, a disruption to oil imports or refining capacity review, management from each business area and major due to a natural disaster or otherwise, higher fuel prices projects identify their risks, the probability of the risks could impact on the Groups operating results.
occurring, the impact on the business should the risks occur and the actions taken to manage the risks.
The risks To mitigate the risk of rising fuel costs the Group regularly are assessed on a regular basis and could be associated enters into forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices.
with a variety of internal and external sources including In addition the Group seeks to limit the impact of regulatory requirements, disruption to information unexpected fuel price increases through efficiency systems, industrial relations issues, control breakdowns and pricing measures.
and social, ethical and environmental issues.
Insurance costs 4.5 Whistleblowing Insurance reserves are made for estimates of losses that The Group has established procedures whereby we will ultimately incur on accidents or incidents that have employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise been reported but not paid and accidents or incidents that concerns relating to matters of potential fraud or other have been incurred but not reported.
These procedures also cover other issues based on actuarial valuations that are regularly prepared affecting employees including health and safety issues.
The actuarial valuations The confidential hotline covers all businesses across consider a number of factors, including historical claim the Group and each country in which it operates.
The payment patterns and changes in case reserves, the Committee is confident that these whistleblowing assumed rate of increase in medical treatment costs and arrangements are satisfactory and will enable the property damage repairs and ultimate compensation.
proportionate and independent investigation of such Historical experience and recent trends are the most matters and appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
significant factors in the determination of these reserves.
29 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued 4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls All investors are kept informed of key business activities, The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the decisions, appointments etc.
via regulatory news and effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year press releases and the Groups website.
There is also under review and to the date of approval of the Annual regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout Report and Financial Statements through the monitoring the year and general presentations are made by the process described above.
In addition, the Directors Chief Executive and Finance Director following the confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review announcement of the full and half-year results.
Other of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
4.7 Treasury operations The Board has set a policy for the management of those Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback risks and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the from investors are submitted to the Board and senior financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been management.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best informal contact with major shareholders regarding the practice and to control and monitor effectively the risks Group during the year and they expect that informal attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
4.8 Auditors 6 Annual General Meeting Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint the Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting, them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General at which a report is made on the highlights of the key Meeting.
business developments during the year under review.
The Chairmen of each of the Nomination, Remuneration and 5 Relations with shareholders Audit Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to The Group recognises the importance of regular answer specific questions from shareholders.
All Directors communication with all of its shareholders.
The full who then held office were present at the 2006 Annual Annual Report and Financial Statements are made General Meeting.
available to all shareholders and an Interim Report is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to These reports are intended to provide shareholders all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the and other interested parties with a clear and balanced meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual understanding of the Groups operational performance, General Meeting on each substantially separate issue.
its financial results and prospects.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
