Corporate governance The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining The directors may at any time appoint an additional the highest possible standards of corporate governance and director.
A formal selection process is carried out, making during the year followed the principles set out in Section 1 use of external agencies in the selection of suitable of the Combined Code.
candidates where it appears necessary or appropriate.
Upon the appointment of a new director, relevant training The directors consider that, throughout the year ended is provided as required.
31 March 2007 the Company complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Any director so appointed shall hold office until the with the exception of the requirement that at least one next Annual General Meeting and shall be eligible for member of the Audit Committee is identified as having reappointment at that meeting.
Following such appointment, recent financial experience.
The Companys position is set the Articles of Association require each director to retire by out on page 35. rotation and seek re-election at least every three years.
This statement on corporate governance, together with Board committees the Remuneration report, provides a commentary on The Board has appointed the following principal how the Company complied with the principles included committees: in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Audit Committee The Board The Audit Committee comprises all the non-executive The directors supervise the management of the business directors and, following the retirement of Mr R P Edey, and the affairs of the Company and see their prime is chaired by Mr D J Pearl.
It met three times during the responsibility as being to determine the broad strategy year and its primary tasks are: of the Group and to ensure its implementation with a view to enhancing the prosperity of the Group and its to monitor the integrity of the financial information shareholders over time.
to be reported to shareholders.
Preliminary results, interim information and annual financial statements are The Board currently comprises three executive and reviewed by the Committee before they are presented five non-executive directors, and their names are listed to the Board, concentrating particularly on accounting on page 32 and 33.
The Board has reviewed the position policies and compliance, areas of management judgement of its non-executive directors and has determined that and estimates.
they are all independent in character and judgement in accordance with the guidance as set out in the to review the systems of internal control and risk Combined Code.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson has been management.
As an integral part of this process the the senior independent director throughout the year.
Committee reviews annually the process of risk management and identification with an external advisor.
The Board meets at least six times each year with additional meetings as required.
All directors receive regular to receive regular reports from the Groups external information on the Groups operational and financial auditors.
Each year the external auditors effectiveness, performance and the Board has reserved certain items for independence and objectivity is assessed and advice its review and approval, including the annual and interim given to the Board concerning their appointment and results, the strategy of the Company, the annual profit plan, remuneration.
The Committee sets the policy on their corporate governance and internal control.
It also makes engagement and remuneration for non-audit work.
high level decisions regarding acquisitions and divestments, Such work is only authorised where the external auditors and sets policies on, amongst other things, remuneration, are best suited to perform it, will not involve the audit health and safety, and the environment.
of their own firms work and will not involve them making management decisions for or acting as advocate The Company Secretary is appointed by and responsible for the Company.
The Committee monitors the cost of to the Board and all directors have access to his advice non-audit work throughout the year.
Directors may obtain independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
to review the remit of the internal audit function, including Formal agenda, papers and reports are supplied to its authority, resources and scope of work.
The Committee directors in a timely manner, prior to Board meetings.
monitors the managements response to audit findings at Briefings are also provided at other times, for example, least twice a year.
Each year the Committee undertakes through operational visits and business presentations.
a review of the effectiveness of internal audit.
The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive Specific items reviewed during the year included internal each having their own separate responsibilities.
Essentially, controls in the wire rope business, taxation planning, the Chairman is responsible for the effective working business risk assessment and accounting and financial of the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for reporting developments.
In addition the Committee all operational matters.
held private sessions with both the internal and external auditor.
34 FKI plc The Committee believes it meets all key provisions of the Communications with shareholders Combined Code excepting that the Board considers that In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is the Committee, through the collective experience of its disseminated in order to maintain an orderly market in the members, can fulfil its tasks without the need to identify ordinary shares of the Company, the Company maintains any one individual member as having recent and relevant a regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and financial experience.
analysts, particularly following trading updates and results announcements, which are posted on the Companys Remuneration Committee website, which provides additional Company information This Committee meets at least twice a year, and consists and is regularly updated.
of non-executive directors with Mr R Case as Chairman.
Its key role is to make recommendations to the Board on The Board members attend the Annual General the Companys framework of executive remuneration and Meeting and, in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, its cost, and to determine specific remuneration packages Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available for each of the executive directors, including pension to answer questions.
The objective of At Annual General Meetings, separate resolutions are the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the proposed on each substantially separate issue and the executive directors are both highly motivated and fairly number of proxy votes received for and against each rewarded for their contributions to the Groups overall resolution is announced together with the number of performance.
Further details of the Committees work abstentions.
Notices of Annual General Meetings are and of the directors emoluments and interests are set sent to shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 40 to 50.
Financial reporting The directors, who have sole responsibility for the Nominations Committee preparation and presentation of this report and accounts The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and other price sensitive public reports, seek to prepare of the Board and all the remaining non-executive those reports in a way that represents a balanced and directors.
It meets when necessary to make understandable assessment of the Groups position recommendations to the Board on all new Board and prospects.
appointments and also to advise generally on issues relating to Board composition and balance.
Internal control and risk management system The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility The number of full scheduled Board meetings and to safeguard the Companys assets and shareholders Committee meetings attended by each Director during investment.
In accordance with Internal Control: the year was as follows: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Board Audit Remuneration Nominations the Turnbull Guidance, the Board of FKI has Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 established a risk management policy and system which Attendance are an integral part of the managements approach to delivery of the strategic and business objectives.
The risk G F Page 8 3 3 1 management system is a systematic process designed to Sir Michael identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate business Hodgkinson 8 3 3 1 risks.
It also provides a process for the escalation and N Bamford 8 n a n a n a delegation of risks to the appropriate level in the operations and ensures that actions are properly defined, R I Case 6 331 resourced and effected to give confidence in achievement R P Edey 2 1 1 1 of business objectives.
The system operates throughout FKI and is applied equally to the operating units and R L Gott 8 n a n a n a corporate function and report on significant areas of P Heiden 8 n a n a n a risk and the appropriate controls.
C L Matthews 8 3 3 1 D J Pearl 8 331 up to date of cessation of directorship.
35 FKI plc Corporate governance Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups sources and can be associated with customer requirements, systems of internal control and for reviewing their competitor actions, regulations and political actions.
The Board has reviewed the key risks They may also arise from the products and services sold by inherent in the Group, together with the operating, the Group and the processes used by operations as part of financial and compliance controls that have been their normal activities.
Management regularly carries out implemented to mitigate those key risks.
However, any risk assessments covering risks in strategy, risks to achieving system of internal control can only provide reasonable commitments contained in contracts with customers, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement risks in organisational change, risks associated with major or loss.
projects and risks involving potential acquisitions.
The Company has an organisation structure with clearly The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegated risks, the probability of them happening and their impact authority and with clear local operating autonomy within together with the associated action plans to mitigate them.
a framework of central management, stated corporate aims Operating unit and corporate function managers are and objectives.
The operating performance of each business responsible for these action plans and their progress is is regularly reviewed by the executive directors, and reported at least twice a year to the FKI Risk Committee progress is monitored against business plans, utilising as part of their performance review.
The Risk Committee established procedures for business planning, budgeting, is accountable for the risk management system and for capital expenditure approval and treasury management.
reporting key risks and associated mitigating actions to The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups the Board through the Audit Committee and meets at systems of internal control and risk management during least twice a year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that and the other members are the senior executive the processes described above which conform with the management.
The Finance Director is responsible for guidance on internal control appended to the code the the implementation of the risk management process revised Turnbull Guidance have been in place throughout throughout the Group and the compilation of the Group that period and up to the date of approval of the annual risk register which records all risks which management report.
The Board also confirms that no significant failings consider to be significant, together with all appropriate or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
The risk registers are reviewed with the three year business plans in August September and with Whistle blowing policy the annual budget in February March.
These reviews cover The Company has a whistle blowing policy that is subject actions completed and the status of ongoing actions.
to regular review and if necessary revision.
Copies are An independent review of the risk process was completed displayed in Group occupied buildings.
Additionally a copy in October 2003 and concluded that the risk process was of the policy is available on the Groups intranet site.
in compliance with the Turnbull guidelines.
However it was decided that a number of improvements could be made to the process to help meet business objectives.
