Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36 37 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: David Richardson Non-Executive Director Chairman a. to consider the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee and any Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director questions of resignation or dismissal and to make recommendations to the Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director Board for it to put to shareholders: Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director b. to monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity James Tuckey Non-Executive Director and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Retired during the year.
c. to discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit and Appointed during the year.
ensure co-ordination where more than one audit rm is involved: d. to develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are in attendance auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical at the Audit Committee meetings, however, they are not present for the full guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit meeting as the Audit Committee has separate sessions with only the internal rm: and external auditors present.
The Chairman is also in attendance.
e. to monitor and review the integrity of the accounts focusing particularly on any changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
significant adjustments resulting from the audit, the going concern assumption, compliance with Accounting Standards and compliance with Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial period of up to three years UK Listing Authority, London Stock Exchange and legal requirements: with the option to extend by no more than two additional three year periods f. to monitor and review any formal announcements relating to the Companys provided the members are considered to be independent.
The Chairman of financial performance, including the Interim Management Statements: the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company g. to monitor and review the Companys internal financial controls: has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year.
Bill Harkness h. to monitor and review the internal audit programme, to review the retired as a Director immediately following the Annual General Meeting on co-ordination between the internal and external auditors and to ensure that 2nd May 2007.
James Tuckey was appointed as a Director on 1st July 2007. the internal audit function is adequately resourced to a level commensurate with the Companys requirements: The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year to receive i. to ensure that all matters within the remit of the Committee are dealt with reports on various matters including the full year accounts March, the Interim in an open, fair and transparent manner: Statement August, and on planning work for the forthcoming 2007 full year j. to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it audit December.
considers that action or improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee authorise it to seek any k. to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, information it requires from any employee and all employees are required raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting to co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.
The Committee or other matters, and to ensure that arrangements are in place for the is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or other independent proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for professional advice and to secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant appropriate follow up action.
experience and expertise if it is considered necessary.
The risk management system is reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to the external auditors independence: it has considered the external auditors quality control procedures and has reviewed and approved the level of audit fees by reference to the total level of fees which the external auditor has been paid during the year: it also compared the fees paid to the external auditor with fees paid to other professional advisors for accounting and other tax work.
It received a presentation from the external auditor in which the views of the external auditor were expressed in relation to the question of independence.
It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process considering the quality of people and service provided by the external auditor, the robustness of the audit and the quality of delivery.
Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committees policy on the external auditors undertaking non-audit The Audit Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness by considering work is as follows: such matters as skillsets of members, quality of Audit Committee papers, relationships with the external auditor and the internal auditor and suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
The results were discussed and 1.
Audit Related Services approved by the Audit Committee which expressed itself satisfied as to its This is the primary area of work for the external auditors.
accounting support is required, then this should be considered on a competitive basis.
The Audit Committee also received a report at all of the meetings from the internal auditor on the work which he carried out.
Tax Consulting Plan is presented to the Audit Committee by the Internal Auditor for In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position is important, Forth Ports consideration at the last Audit Committee meeting of each year in respect may use the external auditors and their associates but this does not preclude of the following years work programme.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Group from using other tax consulting rms.
significant additional tax work the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is satisfied as to the should be evaluated competitively.
effectiveness of that function given the size and complexity of the business.
General and Systems Consulting A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout the Group.
This policy All significant consulting projects, including due diligence work, should be sets out the position whereby any concerns, including those of a financial subject to competitive tender.
The Group Finance Director is required to give nature, may be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
prior approval of work to be carried out by the external auditors if the fee proposal is between 5,000 and 49,999.
If the fee proposal is in excess of 50,000 this should be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee David Richardson if it is proposed to give this work to the external auditors.
Chairman During 2007, the Company used three different rms of professional advisers to advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT and other financial matters.
17th March 2008 The fees received by the external auditors were as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Statutory audit fees 448 383 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 28 82 Other 5 481 465
