Report of the Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were: The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised to Christopher Collins Non-Executive Director Chairman obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional advice Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director on any matters within its Terms of Reference.
Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director Shareholders were advised in the Report of the Nomination Committee in David Richardson Non-Executive Director last years annual report and accounts that the Nomination Committee had James Tuckey Non-Executive Director prepared a detailed brief of a search to be carried out by Hanson Green, an Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive independent rm of Search Consultants, for a new Non-Executive Director.
The recruitment process was as follows: Retired during the year.
a. an overall prole for potential candidates was agreed.
This was arrived at having regard to the balance of the Board, the business experience The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
of the existing Non-Executive Directors and the Combined Code: b. a shortlist of candidates was drawn up based on the search results against Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an initial period of up to the prole: three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three c. the shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the Chairman and year periods.
Bill Harkness retired immediately following the Annual General Group Chief Executive and the results of the interviews were discussed with Meeting on 2nd May 2007.
James Tuckey was appointed as a Director on members of the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination 1st July 2007.
Committee then interviewed the preferred candidates who also met the other Board members: and The Committee meets not less than once a year and at such other times as d. thereafter the Nominations Committee recommended to the Board that business requires.
During the year one meeting was held.
James Tuckey be invited to become a Non-Executive Director of the Company and his appointment was confirmed at the June Board meeting.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: A short biography of James Tuckey can be found on page 31.
The Committee a. to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular is delighted that James Tuckey has become a Non-Executive Director of the Board appointment: Company.
He brings a wealth of property experience which the Nomination b. to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for approval of the Board, Committee is confident will make a valuable contribution to the Company.
candidates to ll the Board vacancies as and when they arise: c. to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: Following their appointment new Directors and Senior Managers participate d. to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time to undertake the in the Companys induction programmes where each individual will meet role: and Senior Managers, be shown the principal locations of the Group and be given e. to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been put in place for every presentations on the Companys strategy, targets and different business units.
The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Board in respect Christopher Collins of the following: Chairman a. the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: 17th March 2008 b. the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: c. the continuation in ofce as a Director of any Director at any time: and d. the appointment of any Director to Executive or other ofce other than to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting of all the Directors regarding these two appointments.
