Corporate Governance Report The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Board Meetings The way in which the Company applies the principles set out in the Combined The Board met seven times last year for regular business and the Directors Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council participated in the Annual Strategy Conference.
The Board meets as necessary in June 2006 the Combined Code is described below.
for any matters arising at other times.
At each Board meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the Executive Directors covering his area of responsibility.
Compliance Statement The Company has been in compliance with all relevant provisions of the An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors are subject Combined Code throughout the year under review.
to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter to re-election at intervals of no more than The Combined Code Application of Principles three years.
Directors The attendance at Board Meetings during 2007 was as shown below: The Board Christopher Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and Charles Meetings Hammond is the Group Chief Executive.
Gerry Brown was appointed as Name Attended Senior Independent Director following the retirement of Bill Harkness.
At the Christopher Collins 7 beginning of the year, the Board of Directors comprised five Non-Executive Charles Hammond 7 Directors and three Executive Directors.
The Board considers all its NonWilson Murray 7 Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, to be independent.
Perry Glading 7 Bill Harkness retired on 2nd May 2007.
James Tuckey was appointed as a Bill Harkness 3 Non-Executive Director on 1st July 2007.
Gerry Brown 6 Struan Robertson 6 No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for more than nine years David Richardson 7 from the date of his appointment.
The Board has adopted the principle that James Tuckey 2 Non-Executive Directors should normally serve two three year terms and that any term beyond six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Director shall serve longer than nine years.
Christopher Collins was appointed for a third term in 2006.
The Chairman holds one meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without The Directors believe that it is essential that the Group should be led and the Executive Directors present.
controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule of Matters specically reserved to it on such matters as: Sub-Committees of the Board The Board has delegated certain matters to three sub-committees of the Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the Board comprising the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management: the Nomination Committee.
Details of the membership of each sub-committee Controlling and monitoring the financial performance of the Group: are shown on pages 37 to 46.
Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major changes in organisation and direction of the Group: The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, the various Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies sub-committee meetings for the period under review: including, for example, acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: Ensuring compliance in relation to Audit Remuneration Nomination a Safety, health and environmental matters Committee Committee Committee b Corporate Governance Number of meetings held 3 5 1 Delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, Committees Name of the Board, the Group Chief Executive and other Directors: Christopher Collins n a n a 1 Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing Authority, London Stock Bill Harkness 1 2 0 Exchange and other regulations: and Gerry Brown 3 4 1 Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets and major Struan Robertson 2 4 1 management financial decisions as determined from time to time by David Richardson 3 5 1 the Board.
James Tuckey 2 3 0 Charles Hammond n a n a 1 Retired during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34 35 Group Company Secretary As part of the annual budget presentation to the Board, the Board reviews The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board the targets which were given to individual Executive Directors and Senior procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
All Directors Managers within the Group and subsequently discusses and approves have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
the targets to be given to these individuals for the following year.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that the Directors are fully aware of their duties and responsibilities as Directors External Audit Process and that they undertake appropriate training.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the effectiveness of the external audit process by way of a questionnaire which reviewed, on a graded Independent Advice scale, the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery and the quality of There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional people and service.
The Audit Committee was satisfied as to the effectiveness advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
of the external audit process.
Directors Remuneration Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved in connection with Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39 which the running of the Company or a proposed action, their concerns are recorded sets out the composition of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys in the Board Minutes.
If a Non-Executive Director resigns, he is required to remuneration policy for Directors and details of such remuneration including provide a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if bonus schemes and pensions for each Director, and the Committees he has any such concerns.
compliance with all relevant sections of the Combined Code.
All Executive Directors are on one year rolling contracts.
Insurance Cover The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and Ofcers and the No Executive Director who has external Directorships is currently paid Trustees of its pension schemes against the costs of defending themselves in for these Directorships.
civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK Law, the Company also indemnifies its Directors, C. Relations with Shareholders Ofcers and Trustees.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional shareholders where a Director, officer or Trustee has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys broker which reect Annual Evaluation of Performance the views of the major shareholders on an unattributable basis following the An annual evaluation of the Boards performance and that of its subhalf-yearly and annual presentations to major shareholders.
The Board also committees, individual Directors and Chairman is undertaken.
Each Director receives copies of analysts reports on a regular basis.
receives a Board Performance Evaluation Questionnaire and separate Committee Performance Evaluation Forms where appropriate for use in In 2007, the Chairman met, or had discussions with certain of the Companys assessing the Boards own performance and that of the Audit and major shareholders.
As part of the governance process, other major Remuneration Committees.
As the Nomination Committee meets infrequently, shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman should there is no separate Performance Evaluation Questionnaire for that Committee they so wish.
The Senior Independent Director is also available for meetings however any comments on the Nomination Committee may be sent to the if requested.
Group Company Secretary as part of the Board Questionnaire.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider fullment investors and encourages their participation both inside and outside the of terms of reference, necessary skills and resources of members, evaluation formal meeting.
of the supporting processes for the Committee and an overall view of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The results were compiled and addressed As in prior years, the Company, at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, will by the Group Company Secretary and reported to the Board.
The results will ensure that the level of proxies for and against each resolution is intimated be considered by the Board at its April meeting in 2008. to shareholders after each resolution has been dealt with.
An evaluation of the performance of the Group Chief Executive and each of the other Non-Executive Directors was undertaken by the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met once without the Chairman and the Executive Directors to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Corporate Governance Report continued D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the 2005 Turnbull Committee Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit Committee are contained Guidance on Internal Control the Guidance in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 37.
Internal Control: The Board is responsible for and has reviewed the Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts: Company law requires the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and Guidance throughout the year.
No significant findings were identied which fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit required action to be taken.
The process of internal control has been in place or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report are required to: and Accounts.
It should be recognised that such a system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently The key features of the system which have been established are as follows: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state that the accounts comply with IFRS Control Environment prepare a Directors Remuneration Report The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the Groups prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational structure to presume that the Group will continue in business has clear lines of responsibility.
Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the local boards.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Identication of Business Risks and compliance with the Guidance Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply Throughout last year, the Group complied with the Guidance.
The Group with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures involved in the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps identication of business risks and compliance with the Guidance.
The for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Board regularly reviews the process of identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups key risks which allows it to take a view on the effectiveness of The maintenance and integrity of the Forth Ports PLC website is the these procedures.
All subsidiaries are required to assess key risks and responsibility of the Executive Directors: the work carried out by the auditors related control and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis.
The Board does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors monitors this process on a regular basis.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the Major Corporate Information Systems United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual results to budget.
Management accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
Variances from Going Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, have a reasonable budget are thoroughly investigated and revisions to forecasts are made expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to twice during the year.
Cash Flow projections are prepared monthly and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore cover a rolling twelve month period to ensure that the Group has adequate it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing funds.
The port business uses the Integrated Port Operating System the accounts.
IPOS to provide it with up-to-date information on marine, general cargo and container operations.
Together with Cognos software, this enables By Order of the Board core information to be tailored to managements own particular requirements to assist in the day-to-day operation of the business.
Main Control Procedures Morag McNeill Divisional management establishes control procedures in response to Group Company Secretary each of the key risks identied.
Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the Groups 17th March 2008 accounts.
The Board has established procedures for authorisation of capital expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an internal audit function which carries out a regular programme of systematic reviews of the financial control procedures.
Monitoring System used by the Board The Board participates in an annual strategy conference which includes a three year forward financial review which is then updated on an annual basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and monitors the Groups performance against those budgets.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
