CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Galliford Try is rmly committed to attaining high in April 2007 and its current structure, with half of the standards of corporate governance and throughout directors being independent non-executives, meets the year the Company complied with the provisions the requirements of the Code for such companies.
set out in section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance published in 2003 the Code issued Any director appointed during the year is required, under and maintained by the Financial Reporting Council.
the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE that one-third of directors retire by rotation each year.
This statement, together with the directors Remuneration Each director is subject to re-election at intervals of not Report on pages 28 to 33, describes how the Company more than three years.
Greg Fitzgerald and Jonathan has complied with the Code provisions and has applied Dawson are standing for re-election at the forthcoming the main and supporting principles set out in the Code Annual General Meeting.
A detailed description of the role and responsibilities In June 2006, an updated version of the Code was of a non-executive director is set out in the letter of issued, which will apply to the Company for the year appointment, and all new non-executive directors confirm ending 30 June 2008.
The board considers that it was before they take up their appointment that they can in compliance with the new requirements of the revised allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the Code from 1 July 2007. role.
The service contracts of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered THE BOARD AND ITS DIRECTORS ofce during normal ofce hours and at the Annual The biographical details for each of the directors, General Meeting.
together with details of board committee memberships, are set out on page 20.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate.
The chairman is responsible for the leadership Following the recent acquisitions undertaken by the Group and management of the board and ensuring that it the board was restructured with effect from 31 March operates effectively, and the chief executive is responsible 2007 to take account of the signicantly increased size to the board for the executive management of the Group.
of the Group and consequent changes to its management The chairman and the chief executive meet regularly structure.
The board of directors of Galliford Try plc to discuss the business and issues for the board.
now comprises the chief executive and finance director together with the non-executive chairman and three The board meets regularly during the year.
Further details independent non-executive directors.
The Companys of the attendance of directors at board and committee executive committee was restructured as an executive meetings are provided on page 24.
The chairman has board, with responsibility for the operational management held meetings with non-executive directors, and the of the Group, which is chaired by the chief executive and company secretary also attended part of these meetings comprises the finance director, the managing directors by invitation.
There is a formal schedule of matters responsible for the Groups major operating divisions and reserved for decision by the board.
The board agrees the company secretary.
Consequently Andy Sturgess and the Groups business plan, determines overall group Ken Gillespie stepped down as directors of Galliford Try strategy, acquisitions, investment, human resources, plc with effect from 31 March 2007. environmental and health and safety policies, and is responsible for the approval of major items of capital Each of the non-executive directors is considered by expenditure, significant financial matters, and reviewing the board to be independent, with the exception of the Groups system of internal control.
All directors the chairman, David Calverley, who did not meet the receive appropriate and timely information and brieng independence criteria set out in the Code on his papers in advance of board meetings.
All directors appointment in 2005, having previously been the chief have access to the advice and services of the company executive of the Company.
There have been no changes secretary.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to his external commitments since then which may affect to take independent professional advice, if necessary, his responsibilities to the Company.
Chris Bucknall is at the Companys expense, in furtherance of their duties.
the deputy chairman and senior independent director The Company has a directors and ofcers liability who is an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Company became part of the FTSE 250 index Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 24 Each member of the board brings different experience The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the interim and skills to the operation of the board and its committees.
and final financial statements of the Company and The board composition is kept under review and when a its subsidiaries, accounting policies, the scope and new appointment is to be made, appropriate consideration effectiveness of the external audit, the work of the internal is given to the specic skills and experience which a audit function, the financial management and control potential new member could add.
Newly appointed systems, and compliance by the Company and directors receive formal induction and appropriate training its subsidiaries with statutory and other regulatory on the role and responsibilities of being a director of requirements.
The audit committee also advises the a public listed company as soon as practicable after board on the appointment of the external auditors, appointment.
The induction for non-executive directors reviews their fees and the audit plan.
It approves includes meetings with senior management of the the external auditors terms of engagement and their business and visits to the Companys operations.
remuneration and approves any non-audit work.
Every director participated in an evaluation of their individual The audit committee discusses the results of the audit performance during the year using a self-assessment with the external auditors and monitors their objectivity, questionnaire with rating scales followed by an appraisal independence and cost-effectiveness and xes their interview.
The process also enables appropriate training remuneration.
The auditors have an opportunity for and development to be planned.
The senior independent discussion between the audit committee members director chaired the meeting in the absence of the and the auditors in the absence of executive directors.
chairman at which the chairmans annual performance The audit committee may engage external advisers was evaluated and on other such occasions as were if deemed appropriate.
The audit committees policy is to consider other rms as well as the audit rm for non-audit work in order to THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES maintain external auditor objectivity and independence.
A process of monitoring and evaluating the performance During the year  LLP corporate of the board and its committees has been undertaken finance PwC was appointed by the Company to provide during the course of the year.
Members of the board financial advice on the acquisition of Linden Holdings plc completed a condential questionnaire covering business when a financial adviser and sponsor appointment for and strategy, board effectiveness and management this class 1 transaction and placing and open offer together with governance.
The company secretary was required.
Before agreeing to the appointment, the collated the results from the questionnaires and prepared committee considered alternative options but concluded a report on the findings for an initial discussion with the that, based on the services required, their knowledge chairman.
The findings were then discussed by the base, the need for consistency in approach in light board, and a number of actions were agreed, including of the Morrison Construction and Chartdale Homes changes to the arrangements for brieng before transactions in 2006 together with their performance committee meetings and revising risk management on those transactions, the proposal from PwC corporate information brought to the board.
finance would provide the Company and its shareholders with best value.
KBC Peel Hunt were appointed brokers Specic responsibilities of the board have been delegated to the placing and open offer.
to the audit, remuneration and nomination committees: all of which have dened terms of reference, procedures, For this transaction the committee agreed a number responsibilities and powers.
Other directors may attend of safeguards with  LLP some of the committee meetings by invitation.
covering, inter alia, their fee structure and segregation of duties to ensure that the independence of the The committees, their members and a report on their auditors was maintained.
activities are given below: During the year key issues which the audit committee Audit committee The members are Chris Bucknall, have addressed included a review of the scope of the Amanda Burton and Jonathan Dawson, who has internal audit teams work, the treatment of the acquisition a background in investment banking and significant of Linden Holdings plc in the financial statements, recent and relevant financial experience and chairs the and a review of the Groups accounting policies.
Each of these non-executive directors is considered independent and served throughout the year.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Remuneration committee The members are Jonathan SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS Dawson, Amanda Burton and Chris Bucknall, who chairs The Company places a high priority on maintaining good the committee and their attendance.
Each of these relationships with all its shareholders.
The Chief Executive non-executive directors is considered independent and and the Finance Director regularly meet with all major served throughout the year.
Any new non-executive appointments is responsible for deciding on all elements of executive are referred to at such meetings.
Feedback on such directors remuneration.
It also monitors the remuneration meetings and shareholder views generally are levels of the Companys senior management.
Further communicated to the board as a whole, and brokers information on the role of the remuneration committee is reports are routinely circulated to all members of the included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28. board.
This ensures that the non-executive directors are aware of and are able to develop an understanding Nomination committee The members are Jonathan of the views held by major shareholders about the Dawson, Amanda Burton and Chris Bucknall, who chairs Company.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance the committee.
Each of these non-executive directors and strategy with major shareholders when required, is considered independent and served throughout the and non-executive directors will also attend if requested year.
The committees role is to consider the structure to do so.
While the focus of dialogue is with the major and composition of the board, to make recommendations institutional shareholders, care is exercised to ensure for lling vacancies, and to consider the nature of the that any price-sensitive information is released to all role and the capabilities required, taking external advice shareholders, institutional and private, at the same where appropriate.
It ensures that appointments to the time within the constraints of the UK Listing Authority board are made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Company Secretary oversees It also satisfies itself that, in terms of succession planning, communications with private shareholders.
the necessary processes are in place in respect of board and senior management appointments.
Every effort is made to ensure that annual general meetings are informative and meaningful occasions, and the full During the year the committee undertook a review of the board, including the chairmen of the audit, remuneration Groups succession plan for executives and key senior and nomination committees, are available to answer management within the Group, identifying potential internal questions.
A presentation is made to shareholders appointments, reviewing where necessary development by the executive directors on the performance of the needs, and considering where external recruitment may business.
At the Annual General Meeting proxy votes be required.
The committee also undertook a review are announced after the show of hands on each occasion.
of long-term succession planning for the board.
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations section within its website to provide shareholders with The terms of reference for the above committees are all relevant information, including institutional presentation closely modelled on the provisions of the Code.
During documents and annual and interim reports and financial the year they have been reviewed and revised as statements, in an effort to ensure that they are well necessary and can be found on the Groups website.
The following table indicates the number of meetings ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT of the board and each of its committees held during The Board seeks to present a balanced and the year and the number of those meetings that each understandable assessment of the Companys position of the directors attended as a member: and prospects which is covered in the statement and reviews on pages 3 to 19.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee The board has an audit committee as described above.
Number of meetings The work undertaken by the audit committee on behalf held in the year 11 3 10 1 of the board in reviewing the published statements, David Calverley 11 supported by the external auditors, allows the directors Greg Fitzgerald 11 to make their responsibility statement on page 23 and Frank Nelson 11 the going concern statement on page 27.
Chris Bucknall 9 3 10 1 Amanda Burton 11 3 10 1 Jonathan Dawson 10 2 10 1 1 Andy Sturgess 8 1 Ken Gillespie 7 1 For the period to 31 March 2007 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 26 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT profit and cash reporting and forecasting regime is The board has reviewed in detail the major areas of risk in place across the Group with reports prepared and that the Group faces in its business and operations and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The operational performance the management controls and processes that are in place of each business is reviewed monthly by divisional and to manage those risks.
A high-level register is maintained Group management and subsequently reported to the which includes risks specic to the divisional activities board together with financial reporting against both of the business, as well as environmental, social, budget and forecast.
As well as the emphasis placed governance, financial and human resources risks.
on cash ow, income and balance sheet reporting, health, safety and environmental matters form part of the The Group operates under an established internal key operating issues included within the monthly reports.
control framework which is described below.
Internal audit The Companys internal audit function Organisational structure The Group is organised is responsible for ensuring that all Group financial into a number of divisions, under which there are clearly controls, as laid down in the corporate, finance and dened business units.
Each division has its own IT control manuals, are operating effectively.
It reports management board and each business unit is run by to the audit committee on its findings.
Clear reporting lines and delegated authorities are in place.
Accordingly, Disclosure policy The Companys disclosure the management of performance and monitoring and policy, which puts in place a condential channel reporting of risk occurs at different levels within the of communication for employees to bring matters of Group with key issues being escalated through concern, whether operational or personal, to the attention management to the board.
of senior management, to enable the Company to investigate fully and take whatever corrective action Contractual commitments There are clearly dened is deemed to be appropriate.
The audit committee has policies and procedures for entering into contractual responsibility for reviewing these arrangements, and commitments that are in place throughout the relevant for ensuring independent investigation of such matters business units.
These include detailed requirements and appropriate follow-up action where necessary.
that are required to be completed prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for construction work both in Annual review The board has reviewed the operation respect of the commercial, control and risk management and effectiveness of the internal controls for the year aspects of the obligations being entered into.
They have been in place during the period under review up to the date of approval Investment in land and development There are of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
clearly dened policies and procedures for the purchase of land and for expenditure on development opportunities.
The board notes that the Ofce of Fair Trading is currently These include detailed pre-commitment due diligence carrying out a review of alleged anti-competitive practices procedures together with detailed appraisal and review in the construction industry and has written to the requirements that have to be complied with and are Company regarding 17 tenders submitted by part of the subject to rigorous review and authorisation.
The Company is co-operating with the OFT in its review.
Operational activity There are established frameworks managing and controlling all site operations that take GOING CONCERN account of the specic requirements of the type of site The directors are required under the Combined Code that is being operated.
These include extensive health, on Corporate Governance to have satisfied themselves safety and environmental procedures, regular performance as to the Group and Companys ability to continue monitoring and accountability to clients or customers in existence for the foreseeable future.
This has been as relevant.
carried out and the directors have concluded that the Group and Company has adequate resources and is Operational and financial reporting The Group justied in using the going concern basis in preparing updates its business plan on an annual basis, and the financial statements.
prepares a detailed annual budget for each financial year that is considered and approved by the board.
A rigorous Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 27
