56 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee they regulate the appointment of former employees of the external audit The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the firm to positions in the Group and set out the approach to be taken when Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit using the external auditors for non-audit work.
As a general principle the processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk external auditors are excluded from consultancy work and cannot be management system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committee ensures engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there are compelling that an appropriate relationship is maintained between GKN and the reasons to do so.
Any proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit external auditors, considers the effectiveness of the external audit process work must be submitted to the Finance Director who will, depending on the and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the external auditors.
It reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function Audit Committee for approval prior to their appointment.
and is responsible for approving the appointment of the head of that In accordance with its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved PwCs function.
The Committee reviews the Groups systems of internal control and plans for the audit of the Groups 2007 financial statements.
In approving the the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
terms of engagement for the audit, the Committee considered PwCs proposed audit fee.
It also reviewed PwCs audit of the 2006 annual report In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access to and review of the 2007 interim report.
the services of the internal audit function and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the Head of During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of the Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process was based primarily on a of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
format devised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority and conducted by means of formal interviews with a number of Directors and responsibilities.
These are considered annually by the Audit Committee and senior management across the Group and the engagement partner of PwC.
any proposed changes are referred to the Board for approval.
The The Committee also reviewed a formal letter provided by PwC confirming Committees current terms of reference are available on GKNs website.
their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards and received In order that the Board is kept fully appraised of the Committees work, the confirmation of compliance with the policy on the employment of former Committee Chairman reports formally on its proceedings at the next employees of the external auditors.
following meeting of the Board, and minutes of meetings of the Committee Internal audit and monitoring of control issues are circulated to all members of the Board.
At its meetings during 2007 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits Membership undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation Directors and presently comprises John Sheldrick Chairman, Helmut of recommendations made by the function.
It also reviewed and approved the Mamsch, Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir Peter Williams, all of whom served internal audit plan for the coming year and the level of resources allocated to on the Committee throughout 2007 together with Sir Ian Gibson.
Their the internal audit function.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function was biographical details are set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Company Secretary reviewed based primarily on guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal acts as secretary to the Committee.
Feedback was obtained from a number of Directors and senior management across the Group by means of formal interview.
As the Chairman of the Committee is the Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, the Board remains satisfied that at least one member of the The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group level Committee has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the significance, including details of any remedial action being taken.
It Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
considered reports from the internal audit function and PwC on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to the Board on the results of its Report on the Committees activities in 2007 review.
The Committee also examined reports detailing the Groups actual or Meetings and attendance anticipated material litigation, monitored compliance with the Groups policy The Committee met on four occasions in 2007 timed to coincide with the for the appointment of agents and consultants which is available on GKNs financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance at the website, and reviewed the Directors and Company Secretarys expenses.
meetings held during the year is set out in the table on page 54.
Whistleblowing The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy which is Audit, the engagement partner of  LLP PwC and available on GKNs website, GKN operates international whistleblowing other members of the management team attended meetings by invitation.
Run by external and independent third parties, the hotlines each meeting there was an opportunity for PwC, and annually an facilitate the arrangements whereby employees can make on an opportunity for the Head of Internal Audit, to discuss matters with the anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected Committee without any executive management being present.
In addition, impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters so reported are investigated and the members of the Committee met separately at the start of each meeting escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume to discuss matters in the absence of any persons attending by invitation.
and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Financial reporting During 2007, the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting Effectiveness and related matters including the interim and annual financial statements, During the year the Committee undertook a formal review of its own other related annual report information, and results announcements prior to effectiveness.
Further details on the process can be found on page 53. their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant On behalf of the Committee areas of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The policies, John Sheldrick which were reviewed by the Committee during the year, are designed to Chairman of the Audit Committee maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
