52 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, The Board currently comprises five executive and five non-executive GKN is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant Directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the Directors are provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate given on pages 48 and 49.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is Governance the Code and, where the provisions have not been complied presumed under the Code not to be independent, all the non-executive with, to provide an explanation.
GKN is also required to explain how it has Directors are regarded by the Board as independent and the Board does applied the principles set out in the Code.
not consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
The terms and conditions of The following paragraphs, together with the Audit Committee report on appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection page 56 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 68, at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
provide a description of how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied within GKN during 2007.
The Directors As referred to in the Directors report, Richard Parry-Jones has been statement of compliance with the Code is given on page 55. appointed as an additional non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2008.
His biographical details are given in the AGM circular.
The Board of Directors From 1 March 2008, Richard Parry-Jones will be a member of the The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Its Chairmans Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a Nominations Committee.
framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one meeting ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for at a Group operating company.
A 12 month rolling programme of items for the Company to meet its objectives, and reviews management discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved to performance.
It also sets the Companys values and standards and the Board and other key issues are considered at appropriate times.
ensures that its obligations to its shareholders including reporting to During the year there are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to shareholders on the Boards stewardship and others are understood and meet with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors met.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: being present should this be deemed appropriate.
setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal term projections: proceedings and other claims against its Directors.
Details of indemnities reviewing operational and financial performance: in place between the Company and the Directors can be found in the approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: Directors report on page 51. reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk Chairman and Chief Executive management: The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997. ensuring that appropriate management development and succession Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the plans are in place: Company, the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board reviewing the activities of the three sub-committees of the Executive and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for Committee: running the Companys business.
reviewing matters relating to corporate social responsibility, including The other significant current commitments of the Chairman, Roy Brown, the environmental, health and safety performance of the Group: are listed in his biography on page 48.
The Board is satisfied that his approving appointments to the Board, to the Executive Committee and commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN and, in to the position of Company Secretary, and approving policies relating particular, would not do so in the event of GKN being involved in a major to Directors remuneration and the severance of Directors contracts: corporate transaction or other action.
and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
Information and professional development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, The Directors responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained timely and clear information.
The supply of information provided to the on page 51 their confirmation that they consider it appropriate to Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance prepare the accounts for 2007 on a going concern basis is given on evaluation exercise referred to below.
Comprehensive briefing papers are prepared and circulated to all A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the Chairman, Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
Directors are Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, is continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which it available on GKNs website and further details of the Boards role in operates and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment relation to the Groups systems of internal control and risk management through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
The are given on pages 54 and 55.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities Chairman arranges for the Board to visit at least one of the Groups which have been delegated to the principal Board Committees are given business locations each year to enable the Directors to meet with local on page 54. management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 53 On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction Re-election of Directors pack which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, The Companys articles of association require Directors to seek reand details of Board meeting procedures, Directors duties and election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, all responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a number of Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM other governance-related issues.
This is supplemented by a briefing with following their appointment by the Board.
Any non-executive Directors the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual reof new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles and election.
Details of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets with the Chief Executive 2008 AGM are given in the notice of meeting circular.
and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the general Group Relations with shareholders strategy and each individual business portfolio.
Plant visits are organised GKN is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has a as necessary for new Directors.
External training, particularly on matters well established communication programme based on the Groups relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board financial reporting calendar.
This programme enables the Directors to Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
gain an understanding of the views and opinions of its shareholders.
In its Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be communications with shareholders, GKN aims to present a balanced and identified in annual individual performance reviews or on an ad hoc basis.
understandable assessment of the Group.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken as Secretary.
Training and development of Directors in 2007 took various part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive forms and included visits to GKN plants both with the Board as a whole Directors are encouraged to participate.
This includes presentations of and on an individual basis.
the full year and interim results, and meetings between institutional All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company investors both in the UK and overseas and the Chief Executive, Finance Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed on all Director, Head of Investor Relations and other executive Directors.
legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
In Periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take shareholders, other fund managers and the financial press are also held.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Groups strategy and performance is Performance evaluation being communicated effectively and to develop further an understanding During the year, the Board carried out a formal evaluation of its own of shareholder views.
This feedback is included in twice-yearly reports to performance and that of its Committees.
The process involved each the Board on meetings with existing and potential investors which, during Director, as well as other attendees of Board Committee meetings, 2007, included the results of an investor audit of GKN conducted by an completing a detailed questionnaire covering issues such as Board remit external investor relations firm.
In addition, external brokers reports on and objectives: composition, training and resources: corporate GKN are circulated to all Directors.
governance: stakeholder engagement: Board meetings, visits, procedures and administration: Committee terms of reference and other specific The Chairman offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet with him Committee-related questions.
The results of the evaluation and to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy.
Feedback to the recommendations for improvements were reported to the relevant Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
The Committees before the Board as a whole agreed appropriate changes.
Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with These were minor and included changes in the scheduling of certain shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through normal items to be considered by the Board and the nature of information to be channels of communication.
circulated prior to Board meetings.
It was also agreed to review the Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during the quanta of delegated authorities.
meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated at one-toended.
Details of the level of proxy votes received are advised to one interviews with the Chairman.
To assist this process, a number of shareholders at the meeting and are published on GKNs website.
assessment areas were identified in advance and used as a framework for Written responses are given to letters or email received from conducting the appraisal interviews.
In the case of John Sheldrick and Sir shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, Peter Williams, who completed their initial and second three year terms copies of the annual and interim reports.
The investor relations section of respectively as non-executive Directors during the year, their evaluations GKNs website provides further detail about the Group, including share provide the basis for the recommendation to shareholders set out in the price information, webcasts and presentations of annual and interim notice of meeting circular that they be re-elected at the forthcoming AGM.
results, other presentations made to the investment community, and Sir Ian Gibson, as Senior Independent Director, led the review by the noncopies of financial reports.
executive Directors of the Chairmans performance, which took into account the views of the executive Directors.
Similarly, the views of the other Directors were taken into account by the Chairman in his review of the Chief Executives performance.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of any of these evaluations.
Corporate Governance 54 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance continued The Committee meets periodically when required and consists of the Board Committees independent non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of Sir The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are Peter Williams.
available upon request and on GKNs website.
Executive Committee Nominations Committee The Executive Committee is tasked with leading, overseeing and directing The Nominations Committee leads the process for identifying, and makes the activities of the Group.
It is responsible for reviewing divisional and recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Group strategy plans, approving and leading the consistent Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full implementation of business and operational processes, and identifying, consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and deciding how Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition they are to be managed.
The Committee normally meets monthly.
of the Chairmans and Nominations Committees and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It keeps under The Committee consists of the executive Directors and the Groups senior review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the executive team under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the current membership of the Executive Committee is given on page 48. non-executive Directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Executive Committee has three sub-committees consisting of members of senior management: The Board has agreed procedures that are followed by the Nominations Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the Board the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir and as Company Secretary.
These procedures, under which the Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, is responsible for driving operational best Committee agrees a description of the role, experience and capabilities practice globally through the application of Lean business processes: for a Director, are available on GKNs website.
The Committee has access the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Martyn to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, Vaughan, Group Director Enterprise Excellence, is responsible for at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the setting policy and providing guidance and direction in relation to appointment of external executive search consultants, where appropriate.
technologies employed across all business areas, and provides input to the Executive Committee to contribute to the formulation of the The Committee meets periodically when required and consists of the nonGroups business strategy: and executive Directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the Grey Denham, Company Secretary, has responsibility for developing appointment of a successor as Chairman of the Board when the Senior strategy for and providing oversight and direction on all matters Independent Director chairs the Committee.
relating to governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
Directors attendance record The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Chairmans Committee Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2007 was The Chairmans Committee is a forum for the Chairman and Chief as follows: Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors on Audit Remuneration Nominations particular issues.
The Committee meets before each Board meeting and Board Committee Committee Committee consists of the non-executive Directors together with the Chief Executive Director 11 meetings 4 meetings 9 meetings 7 meetings under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
Roy Brown 11 6 Sir Kevin Smith 11 7 Audit Committee Marcus Bryson 5 6 The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit Sir Ian Gibson 7355 processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk Helmut Mamsch 11 49 7 management system.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and Sir Christopher Meyer 9376 consists of all the independent non-executive Directors under the Andrew Reynolds Smith 6 6 chairmanship of John Sheldrick.
A report by the Committee on its Bill Seeger 4 4 activities in 2007 is given on page 56.
John Sheldrick 10 48 7 Nigel Stein 11 Remuneration Committee Sir Peter Williams 10 48 7 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors and the Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration policy which is Roy Brown did not attend the meeting of the Nominations Committee at which his approved annually by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the reappointment was considered.
fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which the service of executive Directors is terminated having regard to a severance policy adopted by Internal control the Board, and for monitoring the remuneration of senior managers just The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its below Board level.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 57 to 68. management and receives regular reports on such matters.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
