Corporate governance The corporate governance section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the companys reporting disclosures on corporate governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code, including the required statement of compliance.
The section also contains the companys reports on compliance with the US laws and regulations that apply to it.
The Board 60 Corporate Executive Team 61 Governance and policy 62 Dialogue with shareholders 64 Share capital and control 64 Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure 65 Annual General Meeting 65 Internal control framework 66 Committee reports 67 The Combined Code 69 US law and regulation 69 GSK Annual Report 2007 I 59 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 60 The Board Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Deryck is Sir Christopher Gent Aged 59 a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
He was Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the formerly Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Chief Executive Of cer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement Salomon Brothers Inc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters in July 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Group plc and BlackRock Inc. Holdings Inc. a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari S. p. A. a member of Dr Daniel Podolsky Aged 54 KPMGs Chairmans Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co.
Dr Podolsky is and a member of the Advisory Board of Reform.
Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 60 at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School as Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Chief well as Chief Academic Of cer of Partners HealthCare System.
Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive Director of is also Chairman of the Board and Scienti c Co-Founder of the GI SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief Executive Of cer Company.
He is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Sir Ian Prosser Aged 64 Corporation and a member of the Board of Overseers of the Weill Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Sir Ian Cornell Medical College.
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Andrew Witty Aged 43 He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Appointed on 31st January 2008.
He will succeed Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Presidents Dr Garnier on 21st May 2008.
Mr Witty joined the Group in 1985 Committee.
and has held senior positions in Asia, Africa, Europe and the USA.
In Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 69 January 2003 he was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe.
Dr Schmitz He has served as a board member of the Singapore Economic was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a member of the INSEAD UK Council, a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc, a member a Director of the Of ce for Strategic Coordination of Health Research, of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot sits on the Imperial College Commercialisation Advisory Board and is Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
a member of the Health Innovation Council in the UK.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 48 Professor Sir Roy Anderson Aged 60 Appointed on 17th May 2006.
Professor Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the Anderson is the Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology in the development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD in Molecular Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London and until September Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
2007, was the Chief Scienti c Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
He will become Rector of Imperial College in July 2008.
Tom fide Swaan Aged 61 Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Mr fide Dr Stephanie Burns Aged 53 Swaan was a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial Appointed on 12th February 2007.
Dr Burns Of cer of ABN AMRO until January 2006.
He is a member of the is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Of cer of Dow Corning Board of Directors of Zurich Financial Services and Vice Chairman Corporation.
She is also a member of the American Chemical Society of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of and sits on the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical Royal Ahold, a member of the Supervisory Boards of Royal DSM and Industry, America Section, serves on the Board of Directors of the of Corporate Express, and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board American Chemistry Council, and on the Board of Directors for of VanLanschot Bankiers.
the Society for Womens Health Research.
Dr Burns holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Iowa State University.
Christopher Viehbacher Aged 47 Appointed on 31st January 2008.
Lawrence Culp Aged 44 Mr Viehbacher joined the Group in 1988 and has held a variety Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Mr Culp is of senior positions in Europe and Canada.
He was appointed President and Chief Executive Of cer of Danaher Corporation.
President, US Pharmaceuticals in January 2003.
He served on the Prior to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously European Commission approved G10 working group to restore Andersen Consulting.
the competitiveness of the EU Pharmaceutical industry.
He is a Sir Crispin Davis Aged 58 board member of PhRMA, the CEO Roundtable on Cancer and Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Sir Crispin is Chief Research!America.
Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Sir Robert Wilson Aged 64 Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was Appointed on 1st November 2003.
Sir Robert a member of the main board and Group Managing Director of United is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The Economist Group Distillers.
He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble.
and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Julian Heslop Aged 54 Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on Appointed on 1st April 2005.
Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001 he was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan.
60 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Duncan Learmouth Corporate Executive Team CET Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and JP Garnier Community Partnerships Chief Executive Of cer Mr Learmouth is responsible for the Groups investor relations, As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the internal and external communications, its image and partnerships management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of with global communities.
He joined Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment to his and he directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive current position in July 2006.
Of cer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Bill Louv Andrew Witty Chief Information Of cer CEO Designate Mr Louv succeeded Dr Calhoun as Chief Information Of cer in Mr Witty was appointed CEO Designate in October 2007, and will January 2007.
He is responsible for information technology, a global succeed JP Garnier as CEO May 2008.
He joined Glaxo UK in 1985. function that enables key business processes across all parts of the During his career with the company he has held the roles of Vice Group.
He joined the Group in 1994 and has held a number of President and General Manager, Marketing for Glaxo Wellcome increasingly senior roles in IT, including for US Pharmaceuticals and Inc. in the US, and Senior Vice President, Asia Paci c. He was GSKs R&D functions.
appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe for GlaxoSmithKline Dan Phelan in January 2003.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources Rupert Bondy Mr Phelan is responsible for bene ts, compensation, recruitment, Senior Vice President and General Counsel organisation development, leadership development and succession Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together planning, human resource information systems and employee health with environment, health and safety issues and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham.
He will Smith Kline & French in 1981. leave GSK in March 2008.
David Pulman John Clarke President, Global Manufacturing and Supply President, Consumer Healthcare Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply Mr Clarke is responsible for the Consumer Healthcare business which organisation and Global Procurement.
He trained as a microbiologist produces oral, over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
He has broad experience of manufacturing He joined Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures operations having previously led the Primary Supply, European Group before his current appointment in January 2006. manufacturing, North American manufacturing, Global Logistics and Manufacturing Strategy organisations.
Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Japan Moncef Slaoui Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March Chairman, Research & Development 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President Dr Slaoui leads the Groups complex drug discovery and development and Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development until his current appointment in Eddie Gray June 2006.
President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Mr Gray became responsible for the Groups operations in Europe in Chris Viehbacher January 2008.
He joined Beecham in 1988 and, prior to his current President, US Pharmaceuticals appointment, was Senior Vice President and General Manager, Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals.
Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSKs European Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment in 2003.
Russell Greig President, Pharmaceuticals International Other members Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Dr Calhoun retired as Chief Information Of cer on 31st January 2007.
Japan and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He Mr Stout left the Group in February 2008.
Mr Ingram continues to joined the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide act as a special consultant to the Group and attends CET meetings Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in in that capacity.
Julian Heslop Chief Financial Of cer Mr Heslop became Chief Financial Of cer on 1st April 2005.
As head of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, finance systems, internal audit, insurance and real estate.
He joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board process Governance and policy The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, The Board and Corporate Executive Team for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and The Directors are listed under The Board on page 60. achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategy.
The Board reviews the companys internal controls and risk strategy and financial performance.
management policies and approves its governance structure and The Chief Executive Officer CEO is responsible for executive code of ethics.
management of the Group and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets The Board appraises and approves major nancing, investment and 11 times per year and otherwise as necessary.
The members and their licensing decisions in excess of fide ned thresholds.
In addition, the responsibilities are listed under Corporate Executive Team page 61.
Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a The Board comprises five Executive and eleven Non-Executive Directors.
This includes: The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive character and judgement.
Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for more Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial than nine years, having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to plc on 1st January 1997.
During consideration of the Annual Review the Groups prospects of Board effectiveness at its meeting in December 2007, the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, notwithstanding evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Groups his length of service.
In the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz continued financial and business objectives and annual plans to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such as objectively monitoring, through reports received directly or from various challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate, while at committees, the signi cant risks facing the Group.
the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge of the companys business and affairs, together with his experience gained as Chairman The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the of the Audit Committee.
In a long cycle investment business, such as CEO and the other Executive Directors.
The Board has given the CEO GSK, it was considered to be particularly important to have experienced broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO members on the Board.
When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to is accountable for, and reports to the Board on the performance of the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board to the business.
Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas 1st January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET members on excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board an annual basis to discuss collectively the Groups strategy.
Sir Christopher Gent did not hold a position on a Board Committee where independence was A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive required under the Combined Code.
He has however been appointed Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive a member of the Remuneration Committee effective 1st January 2007 Directors are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at following the recent change to the Combined Code.
their discretion with any CET members.
The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr The Board met six times in 2007, with each member attending as Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, follows: Dr Schmitz, Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in Number of meetings Number of accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended At the date of publication and throughout 2007, a majority of the Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent NonDr JP Garnier 6 6 Executive Directors.
Mr J Heslop 6 6 Dr M Slaoui 6 6 Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January Professor Sir Roy Anderson 2 2 2005 and chaired the company throughout 2007.
Dr S Burns 5 5 He will retire from the Board at the end of the AGM on 21st May 2008 Mr L Culp 6 6 and Mr Andrew Witty will succeed him as CEO.
Mr Wittys biographical Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 details can be found on page 60.
Mr Witty was appointed to the Board Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 on 31st January 2008.
The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Dr D Podolsky 6 6 Board to the CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board Sir Ian Prosser 6 6 meetings.
The CEO manages the Group and implements the strategy Dr R Schmitz 6 6 and policies adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and the chairmen of Mr T fide Swaan 6 6 Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 members.
The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman Professor Anderson joined the Board on 1st October 2007 and Dr Burns joined and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and on 12th February 2007. appears in full on the companys website.
In addition to the 6 scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director SID on quorate basis on 3 occasions.
1st January 2005 and held this role throughout 2007.
62 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Business environment development Remuneration Committee To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and matters, including legal, governance and regulatory developments, remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates internal advisers.
and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Independent advice Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, in accordance The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one with the Combined Code.
It meets at least four times a year and or more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent otherwise as necessary.
Information on the remuneration of Directors legal and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86. an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the Corporate Governance section of the companys website.
The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the Indemni cation of Directors remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as fide ned in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the bene t of the Nominations Committee Directors and former Directors who held of ce during 2007.
The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and the appointment of members to Company Secretary the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee consists entirely Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000.
He of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are independent, and is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is secretary to all of meets at least once a year and otherwise as necessary.
The Nominations the Board Committees.
Committee Report is given on pages 68 to 69.
Board Committees Corporate Responsibility Committee The Board has established a number of Committees and provides The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Nonsuf cient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Executive Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they may be invited upon the Groups business and reputation and for the oversight of to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate reputation and the views of external stakeholders.
The Committee is Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
also responsible for governance oversight of the Groups worldwide Membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
The Committee meets formally Corporate three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
The Corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Responsibility Committee Report is given on page 69.
Sir Christopher Gent M C C Financial Results Committee Professor Sir Roy Anderson The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of Dr S Burns M the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and Mr L Culp M the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Sir Crispin Davis M preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director Sir Deryck Maughan M is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is Dr D Podolsky M M any three members.
To be quorate, each meeting must include the Sir Ian Prosser M M M Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or Dr R Schmitz M M M the Chief Financial Of cer CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
Mr T fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M C Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews Key: C Chairman M Member and approves matters in connection with the administration of the The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Groups business, and certain corporate transactions.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee consists of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate The Committee meets as necessary.
Governance section of the companys website.
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors Audit Committee The performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board, its The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting Committees and Directors during 2007 was undertaken by the SID and process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen, with the and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also support of the Company Secretary.
The Board considered the review proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors conclusions at its meeting in December 2007 and agreed a number of and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of minor improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
The Committee consists entirely of independent NonThe Audit Committee Chairman undertook the review of the Audit Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise Committee for 2007, building on the work undertaken by an external as necessary.
The Audit Committee Report is on pages 67 to 68. consultants review of the Committee in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends, Dialogue with shareholders when declared, the companys reports and accounts, to attend and Financial results are announced quarterly.
speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year results There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding are included in the companys Annual Report and Annual Review, of Ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to which are published for shareholders.
In 2007, the companys halfany transfers.
No Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard year results were published in a national newspaper shortly after to control of the company and there are no restrictions on voting release.
The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year results rights.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts or on voting rights.
The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly results are available on the companys website.
Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The trustees The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place in London, and formal of the companys Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts have noti cation is sent to shareholders at least one month in advance.
At waived their rights to dividends on shares held by the ESOP trusts.
the Meeting, a business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and Change of control informally afterwards, for questions.
Committee Chairmen ordinarily The company is not party to any signi cant agreements that would attend the AGM to respond to shareholders questions.
The entire Board take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a was in attendance at the companys AGM in May 2007.
All resolutions at takeover bid.
the AGM are decided on a poll as required by the companys Articles of The company does not have agreements with any Director or Of cer Association.
The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock that would provide compensation for loss of of ce or employment Exchange and posted on the companys website.
Details of the 2008 resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys AGM are set out in the section Annual General Meeting see page 65 share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans and the Notice of AGM is published on the companys website.
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and understand the views of major shareholders about the company, Interests in voting rights the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-speci c issues, Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there as well as general shareholder preferences.
are no persons with signi cant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders Financial Services and Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on regular meetings.
The Groups Investor Relations department, with of ces in London At 22nd February 2008, the company had received noti cations in and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors accordance with the FSAs DTRs of the following noti able interests, throughout the year.
in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear No.
of Percentage of issued their views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
shares capital % The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets annually with Legal & General Management major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
Limited 289,799,780 5.29 Barclays PLC 199,225,616 3.63 All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
Percentage of Ordinary shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at 22nd February 2008.
The companys website provides access to current financial and business information about the Group.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the companys ADRs, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Share capital and control shares representing the companys ADR program, which are managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY Details of the companys authorised and issued share capital and the Nominees Limited.
Details of the number of Ordinary shares held number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December 2007, can by the Depositary can be found on page 176. be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
GSKs shares are listed on the London Stock The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its own Exchange and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in shares, other than in connection with the companys share buy-back the form of American Depositary shares ADSs.
Details of the shares purchased, cancelled and held in two Ordinary shares.
Treasury are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
64 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Directors and Of cers Donations to EU political organisations and EU The interests of Directors and Of cers and their connected persons in political expenditure the issued share capital of the company are given in the Remuneration At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company Report pages 71 to 86. to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and contained in the companys Articles of Association.
The companys Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
This authority Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the has since been renewed annually.
Although the company does not legislation in force from time to time.
make and does not intend to make such payments or donations to EU political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the The Articles provide that directors may be appointed by an ordinary fide nition in the legislation of EU Political Organisation is wide.
It may resolution of the members or by a resolution of the directors, provided extend to bodies, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in this way retires at support including those concerned with policy review, law reform, the the first AGM following his appointment.
representation of the business community and special interest groups, The Articles also provide that at every AGM at least one third of such as those concerned with the environment.
No donations were made the directors retire by rotation, and detail the circumstances in to EU political organisations during 2007.
The Group made donations which and how they may be re-elected.
The companys members to non-EU political organisations totalling 276,000 during 2007 may remove a director by passing an ordinary resolution of which 319,000 in 2006. special notice has been given.
A director may automatically cease Donations of 249,000 290,000 in 2006 were made in the USA, to be a director if i a bankrupcy order is made against him, ii he 27,000 27,000 in 2006 in Canada and nil 2,000 in 2006 in makes an arrangement or composition with his creditors or applies Australia.
The USA is the largest recipient of political donations, and this for an interim order in connection with a voluntary arrangement, iii re ects the US political system, where candidates are sponsored solely he is suffering from a mental disorder, iv he has missed directors by donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other parties.
meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission and the other directors resolve that he shall cease to be a director, v In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at he is prohibited from being a director by law, vi he resigns, vii he a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state offers to resign and the other directors accept that offer, or viii at and local levels.
Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as least three other directors require him to resign.
a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for GSK to engage fully in the political process.
Donations are one of The companys articles may be amended by a special resolution of the ways of doing this.
GSK supports those candidates who seek an the members.
environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, available on property rights.
As provided in those Articles, the directors may exercise The situation is similar in Canada, and donations follow the same all the companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable guidelines.
In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised low value.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary shares, pursuant to Articles 9-15 and have authority to There is also a GSK Political Action Committee PAC in the USA make market purchases of shares pursuant to Article 8.
The powers which gives political donations.
PACs are employee organisations under Articles 8, and 10-13 are referred to shareholders at the AGM which allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the directors Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations.
In 2007, power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares a total of 522,172 735,600 in 2006 was donated to political purchased may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares.
organisations by the GSK PAC.
Share buy-back programme Annual General Meeting The company has repurchased 11.6 billion of its own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which 3.8 billion The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 21st May 2008 was spent in 2007. at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted at In July 2007, a programme totalling 12 billion of share repurchases the meeting will include: over two years commenced.
The programme covers purchases by the company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKlines 2007 Annual in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the Report companys AGM in 2007.
Approving the 2007 Remuneration Report In May 2007, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum The Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86 sets out the of 575 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, those held as remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures Treasury shares and those cancelled are disclosed in Note 33 to the on Directors remuneration, including those required by the financial statements Share capital and share premium account.
Companies Act 2006 and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to approve the The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent Remuneration Report.
to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 65 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Retirement, election and re-election of Directors Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises Mr Witty, Mr Viehbacher and Professor Sir Roy Anderson have been and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
appointed Directors since the 2007 AGM and will offer themselves Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated for election to the Board.
Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Ian Prosser and to local business units, supported by a regional management structure.
Dr Schmitz will each retire and offer themselves for re-election to These principles are designed to provide an environment of central the Board under article 93 of the companys Articles of Association.
leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework Dr Garnier will also be retiring by rotation but will not be seeking for the exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
re-appointment as he will be retiring from the Board after the The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures conclusion of the AGM.
designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A Group Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates that Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint  business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine signi cant to their businesses and the Group.
The internal control framework also relies on the following for Special business overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
The company will seek authority to: Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC make donations to EU political organisations and incur EU The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board political expenditure, each capped at 50,000 to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises several allot Ordinary Shares in the company CET members and some of the heads of departments with internal give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
allotting new Shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess signi cant up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and 10% of the current issued share capital internal GSK policies.
The ROCC, responding to the Group policy adopt new Articles of Association to reflect the changes referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework introduced by the new Companies Act 2006. for risk management and upward reporting of signi cant risks.
Mitigation planning and identi cation of a manager with overall Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
the AGM, and to speak and vote on their behalf.
Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate representative Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs have been established or proxy can be found on page 177.
The Notice of AGM will be in each of the major business units.
Membership often comprises members published on the companys website.
of the senior executive team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate.
The RMCBs oversee management of Internal control framework all risks that are considered important for their respective business units, The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and including those risks that are designated as signi cant to GlaxoSmithKline understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as across the Group.
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its signi cant risks The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy to the ROCC.
and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including Compliance functions financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In a number of risk areas, speci c standards that meet or exceed The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist audit Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identi ed and compliance functions for example: Corporate Environment, in the Committees Report on pages 67 to 69.
It is the responsibility Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory of management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on Compliance assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit risk and control.
The CET is responsible for identifying, approving, of these standards.
monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
The internal control framework includes Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing department which is responsible for supporting the development and and sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance practice.
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning with laws and Group policy.
system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in operating units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law or Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and effective compliance systems.
66 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Of cer, who The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET reports directly to the CEO.
The Corporate Compliance Of cer chairs and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs activities and Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and the Groups signi cant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on marketing and EHS.
The Corporate Compliance Of cers direct reporting Committee members, with the exception of Dr Podolsky, bring line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committees executive management should the need ever arise.
Members have past employment experience in either finance Areas of potentially signi cant risk or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on pages 50 Dr Podolskys background as a world-renowned researcher enables to 53 and Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
him to bring scienti c expertise to the Committees deliberations.
Effectiveness of controls Mr fide Swaan joined the Board and the Committee with effect from The internal control framework has been in operation for the 1st January 2006.
He succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to Committee with effect from September 2006.
When appointing the date of approval of this report.
The system of internal controls Mr fide Swaan to the Committee, the Board determined that he is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not had recent and relevant financial experience, in accordance with achieving business objectives, and can only provide reasonable the Combined Code.
In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
particular attention to Mr fide Swaans role as Chief Financial Of cer of ABN AMRO, from which he retired on 31st December 2005.
The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of signi cant The Board also considers Mr fide Swaan to be an Audit Committee risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following Financial Expert, as fide ned by Sarbanes-Oxley.
consideration of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually Sir Deryck Maughan is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Such controls may Roberts & Co KKR and Chairman of KKR Asia.
He was Chairman mitigate but cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, there are areas of and CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup the Groups business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve Inc.
Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D Executive Of cer of Salomon Smith Barney.
He was also Chairman and in acquiring new products or businesses.
and Chief Executive Of cer of Salomon Brothers Inc.
In these cases, it is the Groups objective to apply its expertise in the Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later CEO of Bass plc and is a member of prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
The Directors the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments.
Dr Schmitz was the Chairman of the Committee from April 2001 until September 2006.
Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the Director of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates Wellcome plc, where he served on the Audit Committee.
Dr Schmitz in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the has also been a member of the Executive Board of Directors of system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year Deutsche Bank AG.
He retired from the Board in 2000 having been covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
in charge of investment banking.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a member The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal of the Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990, controls accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the including CFO from 1985 to 1990.
He holds an MBA from Insead.
Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist.
He is Committee reports Chairman of BG Group plc.
He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman, Audit Committee Report from which he retired in 2003.
The Audit Committees role ows directly from the Boards oversight function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity Dr Podolsky was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1st within its terms of reference.
The Committee has written terms of January 2007.
He is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced reference which have been approved by the Board.
The Committee knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities for gastrointestinal disorders.
He is Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine it has been assigned.
The Committees main responsibilities include and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process, and Harvard Medical School as well as Chief Academic Of cer monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the of Partners HealthCare system.
His background enables him to system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing bring scienti c rather than financial or accounting expertise to the activities of each of the Groups compliance audit functions and Committees deliberations.
overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends of practice.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address the Committees meetings and is also the Corporate Compliance regularly the relationships between management and the internal Of cer.
It has available to it financial resources to take independent and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting professional advice when considered necessary.
Meetings of the relationships and tiers of accountability between them.
Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global Internal Audit GIA and the external auditors.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 67 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued In 2007, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The external auditors and management report regularly to the activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-bycase basis.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical Note 9 to the financial statements, Operating pro t. accounting policies, signi cant judgements and practices used by the company, alternative accounting treatments which had The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the been discussed with management and the resultant conclusion external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining by the external auditors, material written communications with that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a management and any restrictions on access to information suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards are the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not and on technical financial and accounting matters compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
the General Counsel reported on material litigation The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of the Company Secretary and the Corporate Compliance Of cer Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for reported on corporate governance and on the activities undertaken the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to by the ROCC the Code were made in 2007. the Heads of each of the Groups compliance and audit groups reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources The Committee met in full session six times in 2007 and five times on and on the results of audits conducted throughout the year a quorate basis.
Each full session was attended by all members except Sir Deryck Maughan, who was unable to attend one meeting.
the Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure Nominations Committee Report of financial and other material information to the Board, to the The Nominations Committees terms of reference include responsibility public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Committee for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
to review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the During 2007, the Committees main focus was on the selection of published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly a new CEO to succeed Dr Garnier.
Sir Robert Wilson, Mr fide Swaan and preliminary results announcements and other formal and Mr Culp attended the Committees meetings for the purpose announcements relating to financial performance prior to their of considering Dr Garniers successor.
In implementing its process release by the Board.
to select the new CEO, the Committee took external advice from an executive search company, which conducted a search to identify The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the potential external candidates, in addition to the internal candidates full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys already identi ed.
A further executive search company was used to corporate accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee conduct a 360 degrees analysis of the candidates.
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence from The Chairman conducted interviews with a number of key individuals management and encourages the external and internal auditors to both within and outside the company to gain their perspectives on communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
In addition, Dr Garnier provided the Committee with Committee met both collectively and separately with the external his analysis of the candidates.
auditors and the Head of GIA, and the Corporate Compliance Of cer After considering the Chairman and CEOs feedback, the external without members of management being present.
advice and benchmarking, the Committee concluded by making a The Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation to the Board that Mr Witty should be appointed recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment the Companys next CEO.
and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the quali cations, expertise, resources and independence of the external The Committee also made recommendations to the Board on the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
appointment of Dr Burns as a Non-Executive Director, Professor Sir Roy Anderson as a Non-Executive Director and Scienti c Medical In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which expert and the appointment of Mr Viehbacher as an Executive detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors Director.
and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the requirements.
Where the external auditors provide nonaudit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Audit Committee for such services.
These services may include audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of services, and is subject to a speci c budget.
68 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Following recommendations by the Committee, Dr Stephanie Burns The Committee members have been selected for the relevant was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2007 and expertise that they may contribute to the Committees activities.
The Professor Sir Roy Anderson in October 2007.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson Committee members are Sir Christopher Gent Chairman, Dr Burns, has been appointed as one of the Boards Scienti c Medical experts.
Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Podolsky and Mr fide Swaan.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends the Committees When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers meetings.
The CEO, General Counsel, Senior Vice President of the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would bene t Corporate Communications and Community Partnerships and the the Board most signi cantly for each appointment.
Broad selection Head of Corporate Responsibility also attend the meetings.
The criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between Chairman reports to the Board on the Committees activities.
the representation of European, UK and US markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various During the year the Committee reviewed GSKs activity in a number sectors and specialities.
During 2007, particular focus was placed of responsibility areas including access to medicines, community upon recruiting a Non-Executive with scienti c and medical expertise partnerships, reputation management, human rights in the supply and a Non-Executive with CEO experience from the USA.
Professional chain, ef ciency of manufacturing processes, climate change, the search agencies are engaged specialising in the recruitment of high risk management processes in R&D, transparency of clinical trial data, calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of potential Non-Executive informed consent procedures for clinical trials, financial interactions appointees are provided to the Committee and candidates are shortwith health care professionals, animal research and testing, ethics listed for interview after considering their relevant quali cations.
and compliance initiatives, policy violations and discipline, use of social media tools and employment practices.
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and The Committee met three times during 2007.
Each meeting was taking account of their different backgrounds.
This process includes attended by all Committee members.
meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting GSKs Corporate Responsibility Report can be accessed on the particular operational facilities of the Group.
When appointing new Executive Directors, and CET members, the Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience required The Combined Code for the particular executive position.
The Committee will consider Throughout 2007, the company complied with the Code provisions potential external and internal candidates before recommending of the Combined Code, except as follows: to the Board to approve the new appointment.
All new Directors offer themselves for election at the companys next AGM.
1.1 In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, appointments are announced publicly.
the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in Schedule A to the Code.
Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general, At the end of 2006 the Committee recommended the appointment only basic salary should be pensionable.
The companys position is of Dr Podolsky to the Audit Committee and the appointment of Sir explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86.
Christopher Gent to the Remuneration Committee both with effect from 1st January 2007.
US law and regulation The Committee also recommended the appointment of Dr Burns to A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK the Corporate Responsibility Committee in December 2007. because the companys shares are quoted on the New York Stock The Committee met three times during 2007.
All members were Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
present at the full meetings, except Dr Schmitz who was unable to NYSE rules attend one meeting.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate Remuneration Report governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 71 to 86. that the company explains any signi cant variations.
This explanation is on the companys website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report require the company to le annual and interim written af rmations The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee concerning the Audit Committee and the companys statement on are to review GSKs policies and practices in anticipating and signi cant differences in corporate governance.
managing external issues that have the potential to impact seriously the Groups business and reputation.
The Committee has terms of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 reference, which have been approved by the Board and are published Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in on the GSKs website.
the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley.
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide ranging piece The Committee meets three times a year and has a rolling of legislation concerned largely with financial reporting and agenda that ensures that progress on meeting GSKs Corporate corporate governance.
Responsibility Principles is reviewed on an appropriate basis.
Four Principles access to medicines, standards of ethical conduct, As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, research and innovation and global community partnerships are GSK has established a Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports reviewed annually.
Other Principles are discussed at least once every to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by two years.
The Committee also reviews and approves the annual the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Committee receives regular from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and reports from the members of the CET and senior managers, which investor relations.
cover the key corporate responsibility areas for GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 69 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance Corporate governance continued External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering the of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely ling controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance and Form 20-F.
In 2007, the Committee met nine times.
of achieving their control objectives.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certi cations as to whether a member of the companys Audit Committee is an and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure audit committee financial expert.
For an explanation and details controls and procedures on 29th February 2008, following which of the basis for the Boards judgement on this matter, refer to the certi cates will be led with the SEC as part of the Groups page 67.
Additional disclosure requirements arise under Section 302 Form 20-F. and Section 404 in respect of disclosure controls and procedures, and Section 404: Managements annual report on internal internal control over financial reporting.
control over financial reporting Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of  also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect CFO to complete formal certi cations, con rming that: of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as fide ned in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F Exchange Act of 1934 : based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining or omissions adequate internal control over financial reporting for the based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and for external purposes in accordance with IFRS Form 20-F Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure of internal control over financial reporting based on the controls and procedures that ensure that material information is framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such Commission evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial reporting during 2007 that have materially affected, control over financial reporting that provides reasonable or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and control over financial reporting the preparation of financial statements for external purposes Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2007, and its they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the  LLP, which has audited the consolidated period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the December 2007, has also assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of Standard No.
5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors Board United States.
Their audit report will be led with the and the Audit Committee, all signi cant fide ciencies and material Groups Form 20-F. weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the companys ability to record, process, summarise and report financial information and any fraud regardless of materiality involving persons that have a signi cant role in the companys internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Groups management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2007.
70 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance
