20435 P17 P76 21 9 07 02:29 Page 17 Corporate governance The board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
In accordance with best practice, the board has already identified and addressed the new procedural and disclosure requirements included in the revised Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2006.
Therefore the following statement also describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys compliance in accordance with the revised code.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the combined code The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published in July 2003 throughout the year with the following exceptions: Combined Code provisions B.
2.1 & Given the size of the board, the audit and remuneration committees consist of the non-executive chairman C. 3.1 and the two non-executive directors, and not three non-executive directors as required by the code provisions.
The board believes that these arrangements remain appropriate, with the company chairman being best placed to be the chairman of these committees.
The non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors are all considered to be robustly independent by the board and their independence is subject to ongoing monitoring by the board at least annually.
3.3 It remains the boards opinion that its size does not justify the appointment of a formally recognised senior independent non-executive director.
Furthermore, both of the independent non-executive directors are known to investors and financial professionals in the UK.
Shareholders should approach either of them if so required.
The board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to comply with the Turnbull Report: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The board The board currently comprises two executive directors and three non-executive directors including the chairman, all of whom the board considers to be independent.
The board meets at least every two months, with the group company secretary in attendance, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
The board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the group, developing and monitoring group strategy and safety standards, setting objectives for the operating companies within the group, monitoring performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major acquisition possibilities, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Responsibility for the operation of group companies, implementation of group strategy and achievement of objectives is delegated to executive management.
The executive directors meet regularly with the directors, senior managers and staff in the groups operating companies.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for a specified term, however, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following appointment and subsequently at intervals of not more than three years.
The board maintains a group board procedures manual prepared in response to the Combined Code.
It includes formal procedures for the working of the board and its committees, the timely provision of appropriate information to directors, standards of conduct, and the procedures for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the groups expense.
The group maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover throughout the year as permitted by section 310 of the Companies Act 1985.
This cover was renewed on 30 June 2007.
The group company secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter for the board, is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with and that the board is regularly updated on matters of corporate governance.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the group company secretary.
The board has adopted a procedure for the evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors, including the chairman.
During the year, the review consisted of an interview and a questionnaire completed by each of the directors in confidence and analysed by an external consultant.
The findings were presented and discussed at a meeting of the board where no significant issues were raised.
During the year the board met seven times.
All members of the board attended each meeting, with the exception of Rupert Pennant-Rea who was unable to attend one meeting held in February 2007.
The chairman and the chief executive There is a clear division of responsibility between the chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the group and the concerns of all board members.
The group chief executive has overall responsibility for leadership and day to day group management, in addition to the execution of strategy as approved by the board as a whole.
17 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P17 P76 21 9 07 02:29 Page 18 Corporate governance continued Appointment and re-election of directors Keith Ludeman joined the board as an executive director in 2004, initially in his role as chief executive rail, and then from July 2006, as group chief executive following the retirement of the former group chief executive, Christopher Moyes.
Along with his industry-wide experience, Keith Ludeman has been a main board advisor since 1998 and, since his appointment as group chief executive, has brought a continuation of the management style synonymous with the success of the group.
The board believe that he should be re-elected for a further term.
Christopher Collins joined the board as a non-executive director in 1999 and is regarded as robustly independent.
The boards performance evaluation procedures reaffirm his effectiveness and confirm that he demonstrates commitment to the role.
The board recognise the well qualified contribution he continues to demonstrate in his role as non-executive director to the company and believe that he should be re-elected for a further term.
Nicholas Swift was appointed to the position of group finance director on 17 July 2007 following the retirement of Ian Butcher.
As a newly appointed director during the year, he now offers himself for election.
Nicholas Swift is a chartered accountant with extensive experience in investor relations, tax and treasury gained from a number of senior corporate and operational finance roles.
The board believe that he should be elected for a full term.
The board has appointed the following committees to deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs: Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The committee comprises all the non-executive directors, with the group company secretary in attendance, and meets no less than four times annually.
Meetings were also attended, by invitation, by the executive directors.
The agenda reflects the duties delegated to the committee by its terms of reference.
During the year the committee provided a forum for reporting by the groups external and internal auditors, including health and safety auditors.
The committee also received and reviewed reports from management relating to the annual and half year profit figures and statements and monitored the controls in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and, during the year, considered their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work.
In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the fees exceed a level set by the audit committee is subject to approval by the audit committee.
The audit committee has specified that the external audit firm may not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the group.
The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
The audit committee has unrestricted access to the auditors.
During the year the committee met four times.
All members of the committee attended each meeting with the exception of Rupert Pennant-Rea who was unable to attend one meeting held during February 2007.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The committee comprises all the non-executive directors, with the group chief executive and group company secretary in attendance.
The group chief executive is absent from all meetings considering his own remuneration.
The committee has the responsibility for determining the remuneration, contract terms and other benefits of executive directors, including performance-related bonus and share schemes.
Details of policy and directors remuneration, including share options and contract terms, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 26.
During the year the committee met six times.
All members of the committee attended each meeting, with the exception of Rupert Pennant-Rea who was unable to attend one meeting held during February 2007.
Nomination committee The nomination committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown and comprises all the non-executive directors, with the group company secretary in attendance.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the executive directors.
The nomination committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments and is responsible for leading the process of identifying candidates for board appointment and making recommendations to the board in accordance with the needs of the company and best practice in corporate governance from time to time.
During the year, in consultation with the group chief executive and an external search consultancy, the committee met to discuss the appointment of a successor to the position of group finance director following Ian Butchers stated intention to retire.
The committees unanimous decision to propose Nicholas Swift as the new group finance director was accepted by the board.
Following his appointment, Nicholas Swift has undergone a comprehensive induction programme which has included, but has not been limited to, visits to all operating companies, one-to-one meetings with key senior managers within the group and external advisors, in addition to receiving a briefing on matters of corporate governance and board procedures.
During the year, the nomination committee met three times.
All members of the committee attended each meeting, with the exception of Rupert Pennant-Rea, who was unable to attend one meeting held during February 2007.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on request from the group company secretary or can be accessed by visiting the companys website www.
18 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P17 P76 21 9 07 02:29 Page 19 Whistle blowing policy A whistle blowing policy has been issued to all operating companies to ensure a consistent approach across the group.
The arrangements allow employees to raise concerns confidentially and for the independent investigation of such matters and the appropriate follow-up action which is overseen by the audit committee.
Relations with shareholders The group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its shareholders.
The reporting calendar is dominated by the publication of interim and financial results each year when the board provides shareholders with a clear and balanced understanding of the groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
The executive directors meet with the groups institutional investors after announcement of the interim and final results and at other times as appropriate including site visits and management presentations.
In addition to the meetings with executive directors, institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity of additional meetings with the non-executive directors.
Last year this invitation was not accepted.
The institutional shareholders have further opportunities to make their views known through follow up interviews by the companys brokers which are then documented and circulated to the board.
The executive directors also provide feedback to the board following presentations to investors.
The executive directors are in regular contact with stockbrokers analysts.
All shareholders are invited to the annual general meeting which provides an opportunity for communication with both private and institutional investors and the board encourages all shareholders to attend.
The group maintains a website which continues to be a growing medium for communication to individual shareholders.
The full annual and interim reports are made available via the website, in addition to presentations to the analysts, regulatory news, and share price and shareholder information.
Pension plans The assets of the groups pension plan are totally separate from the assets of the group and are invested with independent fund managers.
At the year end, the groups main non-rail pension plan, the Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, had 30 trustees, all of whom were employees, chosen to reflect the geographic and functional spread of the group.
The two executive directors are also trustees.
The group chief executive is chairman of the trustees and the group company secretary is secretary to the trustees.
There are also two small stand-alone non-rail pension plans for employees of Wilts and Dorset Limited and the Southern Vectis group of companies.
The majority of rail employees are members of the respective sections of the Railway Pensions Scheme.
The auditors and actuaries of all pension plans are independent of the group.
Further details on all pension arrangements can be found in note 26 to the financial statements.
Internal controls The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board maintains a group policies and procedures manual, which is designed to strengthen the groups corporate governance and internal control processes and risk.
As part of the manual, an ongoing process in accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The board regularly reviews this process.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal controls are as follows: a decentralised organisation structure with defined limits of responsibility and authority in accordance with the groups policy and procedures manual: an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of results, identifying key risks and opportunities: monthly financial reporting and review of results by group executives: quarterly trading updates reporting to shareholders: defined capital expenditure approval procedures: and a commitment to best practice in external reporting.
19 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007 20435 P17 P76 21 9 07 02:29 Page 20 Corporate governance continued The key processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: annual review of the group internal control document, which covers both financial and non-financial areas of internal control, and is certified by the respective operating company boards: monthly reporting of financial information to the board encompassing profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheet information and key operating ratios: regular reporting to the board on specific matters including safety, insurance and treasury management: and considering the outcome of the audit committee meetings and the relevant action determined in respect of any control issues raised by internal or external auditors.
As a result of these processes, a number of minor control weaknesses were identified during the year.
These weaknesses were discussed with operating company management and any necessary actions agreed.
There have been no weaknesses that would require specific disclosure in the groups annual report.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
20 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007
