71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance structure Newly-appointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the The board company, the board and the relevant policies and procedures.
This The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an takes the form of meetings with other board members and the appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, provision of an induction pack containing relevant information.
and that the objectivity and integrity of members should be exemplary.
The board currently comprises a non-executive Performance evaluation chairman, five other non-executive directors and five executive The board believes it is appropriate to undertake a regular directors.
The directors biographies are on page 18. performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
This is done when deemed appropriate by There have been a number of changes during the year.
Ian Durant means of a questionnaire distributed to all board members, joined the board as a non-executive director on 16 March 2007 covering a wide range of matters including board structure and and Jonathan Lawson as managing director of the local pubs composition, board processes, communications with shareholders division on 10 April 2007.
Alan Bowkett retired on 1 September and corporate governance matters, the responses to which are 2006 and Mark Angela left on 16 April 2007. then discussed with the directors by the chairman and the chief executive.
An evaluation was undertaken at the beginning of the All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the financial year.
The board is satisfied that an open dialogue exists first annual general meeting after their appointment to the board between all board members enabling issues to be raised and dealt and to re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter.
with as they occur rather than waiting for the next formal In addition, any non-executive director who has served for more evaluation process, and accordingly believes that it and its than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the The performance of Tim Bridge, chairman, was also reviewed at chief executive has been clearly established, set out in writing the beginning of the financial year.
The process was conducted and agreed by the board.
The job descriptions are available on by the non-executive directors, led by Howard Phillips, the senior request.
The chairman has primary responsibility for running the non-executive director, taking into account the views of the board and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to executive directors.
The chief executive has responsibility for executing the company's strategy and achieving The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually operational and financial goals.
by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision, including approval of the long term objectives and Independence of non-executive directors strategy, approval of budgets and financial statements including The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to the report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors the structure of the group and overall corporate governance are carefully examined and fully discussed.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital and objectivity are of paramount importance.
The board believes expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is that they all have a range of skills and experience which will help delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation the company and that their understanding of the company, its of the company's strategy.
strategy and operations increases over the years.
The board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were Information and training independent throughout the year, being free from any Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to relationship with the executive management which could result properly discharge its functions.
All directors have access to the in any conflict or affect their independent judgment, and that advice and services of the company secretary and are provided they all remained independent in character and judgment.
Alan with the opportunity to question management as required.
Bowkett, who joined the board as a non-executive director in Explanations of issues and legislative changes affecting the 1993, retired at the AGM in September last year.
industry have been provided to the board during the year.
None of the independent non-executive directors participates in The training needs of the board are regularly reviewed.
There is the share option schemes or long-term incentive plan operated by an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in the company and none was dependent on the fees received from furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional the company as their primary source of income.
advice at the companys expense.
The company has in place directors' and officers' liability insurance.
The senior independent non-executive director is Howard Phillips, GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE who was appointed to the board in June 1998, has never been the role.
Tim Bridge is also a non-executive director of William employed by the company and has had diverse business interests.
Ransom & Son plc and Weatherbys Ventures Limited but these The board considers that he remains independent from are not regarded as significant commitments and do not impact management in both character and judgment, that his upon his ability to perform his role as chairman effectively.
performance continues to be effective and that he continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Howard Phillips has served Meetings and attendance more than nine years on the board and so will be subject to reBoard meetings are scheduled to be held nine times a year.
There election at the forthcoming AGM.
He was asked to remain on the is also a strategy day and a pub away-day for the full board each board for a further year, until the AGM in 2008, to provide year.
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent continuity at a time of a number of board changes.
contact to progress the companys business and if necessary, board meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, Tim Bridge took over as chairman of the board on 2 May 2005. however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal The board noted that, because of his long tenure as a director, he with matters which it is known will need to be dealt with did not meet all of the independence criteria set out in the between scheduled board meetings.
If directors are unable to combined code.
However, the board was, and remains, confident attend meetings they are given the opportunity to be consulted that the strength of character and independent judgement that and comment in advance of the meeting.
The chairman holds he exhibited as chief executive would continue in his role as regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors chairman.
The board is satisfied that his performance as chairman without the executive directors being present.
is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings held during Board committee committee committee 2006-07 9 3 3 3 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive directors Rooney Anand 9 - - - Justin Adams 9 - - - 2 Mark Angela 8- - - Ian Bull 9 - - - David Elliott 9 - - - 3 Jonathan Lawson 1- - - Non-executive directors Tim Bridge 9 - - 3 4 Alan Bowkett 3- 1 - John Brady 9 - - - 5 Ian Durant 2- - - Howard Phillips 7 2 3 3 Norman Murray 9 3 3 3 6 Jane Scriven 93 2 - During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
1 - not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
2 Mark Angela resigned as a director on 16 April 2007.
He attended all board meetings up to that date.
3 Jonathan Lawson was appointed as a director on 10 April 2007.
He attended the one board meeting held since that date.
4 Alan Bowkett resigned as a director on 1 September 2006.
The number of board, audit committee and remuneration committee meetings attended is stated up to that date.
5 Ian Durant was appointed as a director on 16 March 2007.
He has attended all board meetings since that date.
6 Jane Scriven was appointed as a member of the remuneration committee with effect from 23 November 2006.
She has attended all remuneration committee meetings since that date.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees Audit committee report The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration The audit committee is chaired by Norman Murray and the other committee and a nomination committee, each of which has members of the committee during the year were Alan Bowkett formal terms of reference governing its method of operation.
until his retirement, Howard Phillips until 27 April, Jane Scriven, Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request John Brady and Ian Durant the latter two from 16 March.
All and will be available for inspection at the annual general members are considered by the board to be independent.
The meeting, reflect the provisions of the combined code and have board is satisfied that Norman Murray has recent and relevant been approved by the board.
financial experience, being a chartered accountant who has already chaired audit committees of other UK listed companies Set out below are reports from each of the nomination and is also currently President of the Institute of Chartered committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
Nomination committee report The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim year audit and approve the interim results in each case prior to Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Alan their submission to the board.
It is also responsible for reviewing Bowkett until his retirement, Howard Phillips and Norman the company's internal financial control and risk management Murray.
Apart from the chairman, all members were considered by systems, advising the board on the appointment of external the board to be independent.
auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the company's whistleblowing procedures and The committee's role is to propose candidates for appointment to considering the need for a full internal audit function.
the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard The committee had three meetings during the year and on each to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
occasion the finance director attended.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the The committee met three times during the year, with two of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to meetings being held to deal with the appointment of the new discuss matters relevant to the company.
The chief executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, costThe appointment of Ian Durant as a non-executive director was effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the made following a search by external search consultants, who scope of the audit work and discusses the results of the full were employed to assist in the process by drawing up a short list year audit and interim review each year.
The board is satisfied of candidates.
The chairman, chief executive and all the nonthat the auditors are independent of the company and that best executive directors were then given the opportunity to meet Ian practice is being observed.
Having considered his other commitments and on receiving confirmation that he would accept the appointment, the During the year the company made limited use of specialist committee recommended his appointment to the board from 16 teams within Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work such as March 2007. taxation advice and transaction support.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young The appointment of Jonathan Lawson as managing director of the LLP for non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work local pubs division was made following a search by external to the firm which provides the best commercial solution for the search consultants, who were employed to assist in the process work in question.
Pieces of work estimated to be in excess of an by drawing up a short list of candidates.
The chairman and chief agreed level are put out to tender unless agreed otherwise by executive interviewed him and recommended his appointment to the chairman of the audit committee.
Limits of authority have the committee.
Having considered his qualifications and been placed on the ability of the finance director and the experience and on receiving confirmation that he would accept chairman of the audit committee to approve specific the appointment, the committee recommended his appointment engagements, with fees in excess of those limits being subject to the board from 10 April 2007. to approval of the committee.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following The company has a limited internal audit function which focuses their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
The on the group's managed house divisions, where the greatest nomination committee undertakes a review of all directors who financial risks are perceived to exist.
Elsewhere within the group are due for re-election to determine whether or not to recommend a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of their re-appointment.
financial risks involved are felt to be such that a wider internal audit function is not required.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration committee report The company maintains a web site www.
co. uk to During the year the remuneration committee was chaired by provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys Howard Phillips and the other members were Alan Bowkett until operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations his retirement, Norman Murray and Jane Scriven from 23 section.
All company announcements are available on this site, as November 2006.
All the members were considered by the board are copies of slides used for presentations to investment analysts.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration Directors' responsibility statement policy for the executive directors and the chairman and fixing the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and total individual remuneration package of each of the executive the group and company financial statements, in accordance with directors, considering the granting of share options and awards applicable law and regulations.
under the long-term incentive plan and determining bonuses payable to the executive directors.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare group and company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The remuneration committee met three times during the year.
law the directors are required to prepare the group financial The chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and committee, attend its meetings.
The chairman does not have elected to prepare the company financial statements in participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The chief executive is consulted by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any discussions relating to The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as his own remuneration.
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the group.
The company financial statements are Details of the company's policies on remuneration, service required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs contracts and compensation payments are set out in the of the company.
remuneration report on pages 63 to 70.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to Communication with shareholders financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the their achieving fair presentation.
board, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media used.
In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a In preparing each of the group and company financial statements, means of communicating directly with private shareholders, who the directors are required to: have a full opportunity to ask questions.
The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer consistently.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to For the group financial statements, state whether they have adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in For the company financial statements, state whether applicable compliance with both the articles and the combined code and is UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any sent to shareholders a minimum of twenty working days before material departures disclosed and explained in the company the meeting.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis including meetings after the announcement of the year end and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the interim results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief company will continue in business.
executive on the meetings he and the finance director have with principal shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting director, Howard Phillips, is available to shareholders if they have records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the concerns about governance issues which the normal channels of financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that contact have failed to resolve.
its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group Any issues arising from this process are discussed with and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Appropriate steps are then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the responsible for preparing a directors report, directors executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Internal audit The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive Going concern information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, The directors expect the group to continue in operational the audit committee assesses the scope of the internal audit existence for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, used functions within the group, including seeking the views of the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual budgets Internal control Detailed annual budgets covering all financial aspects of the The board acknowledges its responsibility for the group's groups business are evaluated and approved by the board.
The systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
actual results are compared against these budgets on a fourSuch systems can only be designed to manage, and not to weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They appropriate action can be taken.
can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information Capital and project control used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed and has formalised the control environment needed to address appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews these and other issues.
There are processes in place which are in of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on original plan.
Certain transactions are reserved for approval by internal control.
The board has adopted a formal risk policy and the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, authority have been identified for employees.
including key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective External audit management of risk throughout the business at their regular The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed meetings.
This group oversees the development of risk with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and management strategies, the implementation of suitable interim review.
management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
Exception summary The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of The board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of corporate governance are maintained.
The board considers that internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal the company has complied with the combined code, except in the assessment of the risk and control environment in place during following areas.
the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from, and subsequent discussions with, A.
No significant problems were disclosed in A.
3.2 requires that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, these reports.
should comprise independent non-executive directors.
During the period from 1 September, when Alan Bowkett retired, to 16 The control environment comprises the elements set out below: March, when Ian Durant was appointed as a new non-executive director, this requirement was not met, in that during that time Internal control and risk management process the board comprised the chairman, four non-executive directors The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and five executive directors.
The board believes that the process and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the of recruiting non-executive directors should not be hurried and it significant risks faced.
Major risks are identified, the financial was keen to select the right person irrespective of time.
implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
