12 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2002 and was appointed Chairman in Stephen Curran, 64, joined the August of the same year.
He was Chairman of The Board recognises the importance been no significant changes to the Candover Investments plc from 1999 of, and is committed to, high Chairmans other commitments to 2006, having previously been Chief standards of corporate governance during 2007.
He is Chairman of the Executive of Candover since January and to integrity and high ethical Nominations Committee.
Prior to joining Candover in standards in all of its business dealings.
May 1981, he was a managing Sir Michael Darrington FCA The Board considers that it has consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Managing Director, 66, qualified complied, throughout the year under Associates and then an investment as a Chartered Accountant and then review, with the principles of manager with what is now Cinven.
spent 17 years with United Biscuits, governance set out in Section 1 of He is a non-executive director of latterly in General Management.
the Combined Code on corporate Copthorne Holdings Limited, O. X. I. P. During this time he attended the PMD governance published by the and Noble Group Limited.
In 2004 he course at Harvard Business School.
Financial Reporting Council the was appointed as the Senior He joined Greggs in 1983 and was Combined Code effective during Independent Non-Executive Director.
appointed Managing Director in the financial year.
Stephen will retire as a director of the January 1984.
Company at its Annual General The following statements, together Richard Hutton FCA Finance Meeting in 2008. with the Directors' Remuneration Director, 39, was appointed to the Report on pages 58 to 65, describe Bob Bennett, 60, was appointed to Board on 13 March 2006.
He qualified how the relevant principles and the Board in December 2003.
He as a Chartered Accountant with provisions of the Combined Code trained as a Chartered Accountant KPMG and gained career experience were applied to the Company in 2007 with Spicer & Pegler and was Group with Procter & Gamble before joining and will be relevant to the Company Finance Director of Northern Rock Greggs in 1998.
He was appointed for the 2008 financial year.
plc from 1993 until his retirement at Finance Director on 10 May 2006. the end of January 2007.
He is a nonThe Board Richard is also a non-executive executive director of Redrow plc and Composition director of Northern Recruitment Expro International Group PLC.
He The Board currently comprises the Group plc.
Chairman, three executive and three has been Chairman of the Audit Raymond Reynolds Retail non-executive directors as follows: Committee since 2004 and will Director, 48, was appointed to the become the Senior Independent NonDerek Netherton Chairman, 63, Board on 18 December 2006.
He Executive Director after the Annual spent his career in investment banking joined Greggs in retail management in General Meeting in 2008. and retired in 1996 from his position 1986.
During the late 1990s, as as joint head of corporate finance at Julie Baddeley, 56, was appointed to general manager he built a significant the Board in March 2005.
She has J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
He is new business for Greggs in the a non-executive director of Next plc Edinburgh region, and in 2002 he was held senior executive roles in the and St Jamess Place plc.
He was appointed Managing Director of Woolwich plc where she was appointed to the Board on 1 March Greggs of Scotland.
responsible for Information GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 13 Main Audit Remuneration Nominations Technology and Human Resources, Board Committee Committee Committee Accenture and Sema Consulting.
Julie is a non-executive director of Number of meetings held 6 3 5 6 Yorkshire Building Society, Derek Netherton 6 - - 6 Computerland UK Plc and is an Mike Darrington 6 - - 5 Associate Fellow of the Said Business Richard Hutton 6 - - - School, Oxford.
Julie was appointed as Raymond Reynolds 5 - - - Chair of the Remuneration Stephen Curran 6 2 4 6 Committee in 2005.
Julie Baddeley 6 3 5 6 Roger Whiteside, 49, will join the Bob Bennett 6 3 5 6 Board as an additional non-executive director with effect from 17 March 2008.
On appointment, Roger will The Board has adopted a paper The Board meets with the Senior become a member of the Companys identifying the separation of the roles Management at a different operating Audit, Nominations and Remuneration of the Chairman and the Managing division each year.
The Chairman sets the part of the process of maintaining an Effectiveness agenda for Board meetings and awareness of the Companys The Board, under the chairmanship of ensures that the Board is supplied, in activities and assessing the ability of Derek Netherton, meets regularly to a timely manner, with information in the management team, several discharge its duties.
At these a form and of a quality appropriate to members of the senior management meetings, it reviews Group strategy, enable it to discharge its duties.
The team are invited to attend Board performance, resources, risk Board considers that it effectively meetings and or to present papers management procedures and other leads and controls the Company.
This process also matters reserved for the Board.
directors take decisions objectively affords senior managers the Whilst the executive responsibility for and in the interests of the Company.
opportunity to bring matters to the running the Companys business rests The non-executive directors attention of the Board.
ultimately with the Managing Director, scrutinise the performance of Mike Darrington, the non-executive The Board is satisfied that a strategy is management in meeting agreed goals directors ensure that the strategies in place for orderly succession to the and objectives and monitor the proposed by the executive directors Board and to positions of senior reporting of performance.
All are fully discussed and critically management, so as to maintain an directors receive induction training examined prior to adoption.
During appropriate balance of skills and on joining the Board and regularly 2007, the Board met and the number experience within the Company and update and refresh their knowledge of meetings attended by each director on the Board.
through reading, attendance on was as follows: relevant courses and or activities After carefully reviewing the guidance outside the Company.
in the Combined Code, all of the continuing non-executive directors 14 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED are considered by the Board to be The performance of the Board, its During the year, the Committee, in independent in character and Committees and of all directors is performing these functions, reviewed judgement and to be free from any evaluated annually by a formal and the annual and interim accounts business or other relationship or rigorous process.
Each director issued to shareholders, compliance circumstance which is likely to affect completes a questionnaire.
The results with financial reporting standards and or to interfere with the exercise of are fed back to the Chairman and the the size and remit of the internal audit their independent judgement.
Senior Independent Director and then function.
The Committee also to the Board for discussion.
These considered and made The Companys Articles of discussions are used to identify actions to recommendations to the Board in Association require that all directors improve effectiveness and also to identify relation to the independence and must retire and seek re-election at individual and collective training needs.
objectivity of the external auditors the first AGM following appointment.
including the impact of any non-audit Thereafter, any non-executive director Board Committees work undertaken by them and their who has served on the Board for more The Board delegates some of its suitability for re-appointment.
The than nine years must seek re-election activities to the following committees, Audit Committee determined the annually.
One half of the remaining each of which has written terms of scope of the external audit in directors, being those who have been reference, which are available on the discussion with the external auditors in office longest since last re-election, Companys website.
The Company and agreed their fees in respect of the and any other director who has not Secretary acts as secretary to each of audit.
The Committee normally meets been elected or re-elected at either of these Committees.
with the Finance Director and the the two preceding AGMs, must seek The Audit Committee currently external auditors in attendance, re-election at each AGM.
consists of three independent nonalthough time is set aside annually for All directors are able to receive executive directors Bob Bennett - discussion between the Committee training and to take independent Chairman, Stephen Curran and Julie and the external auditors and with the professional advice at the expense of Baddeley.
The Committees main internal auditors, in each case in the the Company.
They also have direct functions are to endeavour i to absence of all executive directors.
access to the Company Secretary, ensure that the accounting and The Committee has the power to who is responsible for advising the financial policies of the Company are engage outside advisers if it sees fit.
Board, through the Chairman, on all proper and effective: ii to monitor The Committee also monitors and governance matters.
the integrity of the accounts and reviews the effectiveness of the information published by the internal audit activities.
The Chairman meets with the nonCompany: iii to review the internal executive directors annually without The Combined Code requires the financial controls and the Groups the executive directors present.
The Board to be satisfied that at least one approach to risk management: and iv Senior Independent Director meets member of the Audit Committee has to monitor compliance with the Listing the non-executive directors without recent and relevant financial Rules and the recommendations of the the Chairman present annually to experience the Board is satisfied in Combined Code.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 15 The Remuneration Committee of the Board: to advise the Board as Relations with shareholders currently consists entirely of to whether directors retiring by The Chairman ensures that there is independent non-executive directors rotation should be nominated for effective communication with Julie Baddeley Chair, Stephen re-election by the members: and to individual and institutional Curran and Bob Bennett.
The approve and manage the process for shareholders through the Committees main duties which it setting the specification for all Board announcement of regular trading discharged during the year are to appointments, identifying candidates updates, as well as general determine the basic salary, benefits in who meet that specification and presentations after announcement of kind, terms and conditions of making recommendations to the the interim and preliminary results employment, performance-related Board on the basis of merit and and the posting of results on the bonuses, share options and pension compliance with objective criteria in Companys website.
The Board benefits of the executive directors respect of all new Board appointments.
receives reports on any comments and the Chairman on behalf of the received from shareholders following In recruiting additional directors, the Board.
The Committee is also these presentations.
Nominations Committee defines the responsible for the operation of the role and uses external consultants to The Board considers that the AGM is Companys share option schemes assist in identifying suitable candidates the main forum for communication and, when requested by the Board from which the Committee selects a with investors, with the Chairmen of or by the Managing Director, short list and conducts interviews.
the Board and its Committees for monitoring and making The final candidate is then subject to available to answer any issues raised recommendations in respect of the formal recommendation by the and any newly appointed directors level and structure of remuneration Committee and approval by the being available to meet shareholders.
This process was adopted for In addition, the Company Secretary Executive Director Committee sets, the selection of Roger Whiteside as an and the Companys Brokers draw the after discussion with the Chairman, additional non-executive director.
attention of the Board to all relevant the fees for the non-executive shareholder communications.
The Each of the Committees is provided directors so as to ensure that no Board also reviews briefings and with sufficient resources to undertake director is involved in setting his or comments by analysts in order to its duties.
The Directors maintain an understanding of market Remuneration Report is set out on perceptions of the Company.
The pages 58 to 65 of this Annual Report.
Senior Independent Director is The Nominations Committee available to shareholders if they have currently comprises Derek Netherton concerns which contact through the - Chairman, all of the non-executive normal channels of the Chairman, directors and Mike Darrington.
The Managing Director or Finance Committees main functions which it Director have failed to resolve, or for discharged during the year are to which such contact is not appropriate.
review the balance and constitution 16 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED At the AGM, the balance of proxy Board of Directors Operating Board votes cast for and against each The Board takes a proactive approach The Operating Board, answerable resolution and the number of to the management of all forms of directly to the Managing Director, is abstentions is displayed.
All substantial risk, and views risk management as a responsible for implementing issues, including the receipt of the vital constituent of its role.
At each decisions of the Main Board and annual report and accounts, are Board meeting, the effectiveness of providing protection against the major proposed at the AGM as separate the controls relating to the most risks by various techniques, including resolutions.
significant risks i. e. those which may strategic planning, monitoring, restrict the Companys ability to meet supervision and training.
Risk Management its objectives are monitored and The Board is ultimately responsible Risk Committee reviewed.
The Audit Committee, for the Groups system of internal The Risk Committee, consisting of the on behalf of the Board, conducts a control, which covers all aspects of heads of each management function formal review of risks and risk the business, and for reviewing its within the business, has responsibility management procedures and reports effectiveness.
However, any such for analysing, assessing, measuring and its findings to the Board.
Remedial system can only be designed to understanding the Companys risk action is determined where manage, rather than eliminate, the environment, as well as devising a appropriate.
For some key risks, risk of failure to achieve the sound risk management strategy for where it is felt necessary, specialist Companys objectives and, therefore, review and approval by the Board.
advice is sought from external is only able to provide reasonable, The Risk Committee reports its agencies and professional advisers.
and not absolute, assurance against findings and important changes to the The Board also reviews, at least material misstatement or loss.
The Board on a regular basis through annually, the level and scope of directors regularly review the risks to personal presentation, narrative insurance cover maintained within which the Company is exposed, as reports and key performance the business.
The Board receives well as the operation and indicators internal and external to the reports from management on effectiveness of the system of internal organisation and through the Audit significant changes in the business controls.
This is an ongoing process Committee.
The Risk Committee also and external environment which which accords with the guidance in feeds the results of its assessments might affect the risk profile.
It has the Turnbull report, involving the back into the Operating Boards also set in place a system of regular identification, evaluation and business planning process at least hierarchical reporting which provides management of the significant risks annually.
The risks are assessed on a for relevant details and assurances on faced by the Company.
Key elements regular basis across all functional areas the assessment and control of risks of the internal control system, which but, in particular, the areas of food to be given to it.
have been in place during the whole safety, health and safety, information of the year under review and up to flow, asset protection and regulatory the date of approval of this Annual requirements.
Report and accounts, are: GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 17 The Board considers the key risks to Detailed plans are in place for all our financial management policies within the Group to be as follows: major production facilities to maintain each operating division.
Each business continuity in the event of any Divisional Financial Controller works Organisational potentially disruptive occurrence.
closely with their divisional General The success of the Company is Managers to monitor performance dependent upon the efforts and abilities Policies and Procedures against plan.
In addition, assets and of its employees.
The Company has Policies and procedures, covering liabilities are scrutinised at several established remuneration packages control issues across appropriate levels on a regular basis and remedial that will attract, retain and motivate aspects of the business, are defined action is taken where required.
individuals with appropriate skills and and communicated to the respective A comprehensive annual planning experience.
Organisational structure managers and staff at all levels.
process is carried out, which is regularly reviewed and there are Adherence is monitored and determines expected levels of group-wide processes for the training reported upon.
performance for all aspects of the and development of all employees.
Each Divisional Financial External factors The Company is committed to Controller can also report directly to Changes in the retail trading environment improving continuously the working the Group Finance Director on or in customer preferences will clearly environment, with the objective that matters of financial control.
have a significant effect on the business.
accidents and work related ill health Whistle Blowing The Company continually monitors should progressively be reduced.
The Company has whistle blowing market trends, the performance of its Health and Safety Officers and procedures in place, which enable competitors and the performance of Occupational Nurses are appointed in employees to bring matters to the its own products and retail formats.
every Division and operational policies attention of the senior management Consumer research is carried out and and procedures are subject to both and for the confidential, key market reports are monitored.
Targets proportionate and independent are set and programmes are devised Operational consideration and follow-up of any to implement them.
This approach The safety of our products, matter so raised.
The whistle involves a rigorous health assessment, employees and customers is blowing procedures are reviewed during which hazards are identified, paramount.
Detailed systems are in regularly by the Audit Committee.
risks assessed, control measures place to ensure that we are operating applied and improvement actions Internal Audit safely and these systems are subject agreed to manage residual risks.
The internal audit function visits every to regular audit to ensure compliance.
Division on an annual basis and High priority is given to implementing Financial Reporting reviews performance of the Division any resulting recommendations.
The Company operates a across a range of financial and noncomprehensive financial control financial requirements, reporting system.
Divisional Financial findings to senior management and Controllers have responsibility for direct to the Audit Committee.
