26 27 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance controls, corporate governance matters, and treasury and risk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE management.
A procedure has been adopted for directors to The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate obtain independent professional advice where appropriate, at the governance.
The Board is committed to high standards of cost of the Company, and all directors have unrestricted access to corporate governance and its policy is to manage the affairs of the the Company Secretary, who is an employee of the Company.
In Company in accordance with the principles of good governance relation to non-reserved matters, the Board is assisted by a and the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on number of committees with delegated authority.
The make-up and Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Reporting Council role of each of these committees is described below.
in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The following statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting The Board meets on a regular basis.
During the financial year principles set out in the Combined Code.
ended 30 March 2007, the Board met formally ten times.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information appropriate STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE to enable it to discharge its duties.
Appropriate management COMBINED CODE reports and financial information are provided to the Board on a The directors consider that the Company has applied the monthly basis and in advance of each Board meeting.
These principles and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the normally include monthly management reports, accounts, reports Combined Code for the year ended 30 March 2007, with the on current trading and papers on matters in respect of which the exception of provision B.
2.1, as the Chairman sits on the Board makes decisions or is invited to give its approval.
presentations on business and strategic issues are made regularly.
Minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all Board THE DIRECTORS members, unless a conflict of interest arises.
The following persons were directors of the Company during the year ended 30 March 2007: The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board and is not involved in day-to-day operational issues.
Save Richard Pym Chairman for matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Chief Ian McLeod Chief Executive Executive, with the support of the Finance and Trading Directors, Nick Carter Finance Director to 2 February 2007 is responsible for the running of the Groups business, carrying out Nick Wharton Finance Director from 3 February 2007 the agreed strategy adopted by the Board and implementing Nigel Wilson Senior Independent Director and specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
non-executive director Keith Harris non-executive director Nigel Wilson was the Senior Independent Director throughout the Bill Ronald non-executive director period under review.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders upon request if they have concerns which Paul McClenaghan was appointed Director of Trading from contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or the 31 March 2007. executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
BOARD STRUCTURE The Board is currently composed of seven members, consisting of The Company is supportive of executive directors who wish to three executive directors, a non-executive chairman and three take one non-executive directorship with a company outside the non-executive directors.
The three non-executive directors are Group, as exposure to such duties can broaden experience and considered by the Board to be independent.
Accordingly, no knowledge, which will be to the benefit of the Company.
Executive individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decisiondirectors may retain any fees they receive.
Ian McLeod is currently making and the requirement of the Combined Code that at least a non-executive director of Fulham Football Club.
Fees retained in half of the Board excluding the chairman should comprise the year were 25,000 2006: 25,000. independent non-executive directors is satisfied.
APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 22 and 23.
The Board will appoint any new directors having first considered The directors have wide experience and expertise and the Board recommendations made to it by the Nomination Committee.
believes that all of the directors devote sufficient time and Following such appointment, the director will be proposed for attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association there is ROLE AND WORKINGS OF THE BOARD also a process of retirement by rotation, which ensures that The Boards role is to determine the long-term direction and approximately one-third of all directors are required to retire and strategy of the Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the seek re-election at each Annual General Meeting and that no achievement of business objectives and ensure that good director serves for more than three years without being proposed corporate governance is practised and that the Group meets its for re-election at an Annual General Meeting.
Ian McLeod and Bill other responsibilities to its shareholders, customers and other Ronald will retire and offer themselves for re-election at this years stakeholders.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that Annual General Meeting.
Having been appointed as directors by appropriate processes are in place in respect of succession the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, Nick Wharton planning for appointments to the Board and to senior and Paul McClenaghan will offer themselves for reappointment at management positions.
this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, which it Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms retains for Board decision-making on a range of key issues, normally three years, subject to reappointment under the including the formulation of strategy, financial reporting and Companys Articles of Association and subject to the Companies reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services by the Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The Chairman external auditor, with particular scrutiny as to whether the will confirm to shareholders when proposing an appointment or provision of such services may affect the objectivity and reappointment that, following formal performance evaluation, the independence of the external auditor individuals performance continues to be effective and they the Committee requires any proposal for expenditure of over demonstrate commitment to the role.
25,000 as non-audit services to be referred to it for scrutiny and approval The Board has formally adopted an induction programme for new making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors, which will be tailored to each new director who joins the auditors and the audit fee Board and includes briefings regarding the activities of the Group keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and and visits to stores.
Documentation and training on their duties as its cost effectiveness directors are also available to all directors.
In addition, directors are also informed regularly on relevant material changes to laws At the end of the year the Audit Committee required the external and regulations affecting the Groups business.
All directors have auditor to confirm the safeguards it has in place to ensure that its access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who objectivity and independence is not impaired with respect to its is also responsible for advising the Board on all governance provision of non-audit services to the Company.
At least once a year the Audit Committee meets with the external BOARD COMMITTEES auditor without any executive directors present.
The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, with formally delegated duties and responsibilities NOMINATION COMMITTEE and written terms of reference.
These terms of reference can be For the year ended 30 March 2007 the Nomination Committee accessed on the Companys website, www.
comprised Richard Pym Chairman, Keith Harris, Bill Ronald, The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all three Committees.
Nigel Wilson and Ian McLeod.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Only the members of each Committee are entitled to attend its Ronald are independent non-executive directors.
meetings, although other directors, professional advisers and members of the senior management team attend when invited to The Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice each do so.
The Audit Committee will invite the external auditor to year.
During the period under review it met to consider succession certain of its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and planning for the Board and senior management generally, and to Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business propose the appointment of the new executive directors.
pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, composed of senior members of the finance and treasury teams The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: and chaired by the Finance Director, has been established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
When the nominating candidates both executive and non-executive for need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the appointment to the Board, to fill vacancies or appoint Board to consider specific issues.
additional persons to the Board monitoring the size, structure, balance and composition of the AUDIT COMMITTEE Board For the year ended 30 March 2007, the Audit Committee evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of comprised Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald, all of whom the Boards members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee making recommendations in respect of the membership of the chairman is Nigel Wilson, who, being also Chief Financial Officer Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees of United Business Media plc, is considered by the Board to have making recommendations in respect of the reappointment or recent and relevant financial experience.
Each of the other not of non-executive directors and of the continuance in independent non-executive directors on the Committee has, service or not of executive directors.
through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
In discharging its duties, the Nomination Committee considers the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year, according expertise required for the future.
In relation to any new to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar.
The appointments, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, meetings of the Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this the independent non-executive directors to meet without the evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities executive directors present and also the opportunity to raise any required for a particular appointment.
issues of concern with the Companys external auditor.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In addition to ensuring the integrity of the Groups half-year and For the year ended 30 March 2007, the Remuneration Committee full-year financial statements before publication, the Audit comprised Keith Harris Chairman, Richard Pym, Nigel Wilson Committee has responsibility for monitoring a number of other and Bill Ronald.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are all areas of activity, including: independent non-executive directors.
The Board has agreed that Richard Pym will remain a member of the Remuneration the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the Committee, contrary to provision B.
2.1 of the Combined Code, in Groups risk management policies and systems anticipation of the 2006 Combined Code which is effective in the the integrity, performance and independence of the Groups year ending 29 March 2008 and which allows company chairmen relationship with the external auditor to sit on remuneration committees.
28 29 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least twice In addition to the scheduled meetings numbered above, the Board each year.
held an additional meeting to review corporate strategy, visited stores to review operational and systems progress and attended The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include: the annual store managers conference.
The Audit Committee also held additional meetings to review the various trading statements.
making recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost ACCOUNTABILITY, RISK MANAGEMENT AND reviewing and determining on behalf of the Board, the INTERNAL CONTROL remuneration and incentive packages of the Companys The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal executive directors and certain senior executives of the Group control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group.
to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their individual The assessment of effectiveness has been carried out this year.
contributions to the Groups overall performance The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than determining the basis on which the employment of the eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can Companys executive directors and certain senior executives provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against of the Group is terminated material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of operating and administering the Companys share option the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of schemes and employee benefit trust.
internal control and risk management.
The Boards remuneration policy is described in detail in the The Board considers risk assessment and control to be Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 35. fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward profile and there is an ongoing process for EVALUATION OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group The Board has established a formal process for the annual and the effectiveness of related controls.
The key elements of this evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal process are: committees and individual directors.
Questionnaires are drawn up, which provide the framework for the evaluation process.
Each a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key member of the Board or appropriate Committee submits replies to executives, identifying performance against budget, analysis the questionnaires, which are then collated.
Following a review of of variances, major business issues, key performance these responses by the Board or by the appropriate Committee indicators and regular forecasting any appropriate action will be taken to ensure that the well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of performance of the Board as a whole, its principal committees capital expenditure and treasury operations and individual directors is such that each can perform at the reviews of key business risks and of managements controls optimum level for the benefit of the Company.
The Senior and plans to mitigate these risks Independent Director and the other independent non-executive an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the directors conduct the annual performance evaluation of the Board by all directors on the effectiveness of the identification Chairman.
of major risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their areas of responsibility.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The number of meetings of the Board and of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during the year ended 30 March 2007, together with a record of each members attendance, is set out below.
Any director not able to attend a meeting is supplied with all papers in advance of the meeting for their review and comment.
Number of meetings attended RemuNomiAudit neration nation Board Committee Committee Committee Richard Pym 10 n a 2 4 Ian McLeod 10 n a n a 4 Nick Carter resigned 02.03.07 8 n a n a n a Nick Wharton appointed 03.02.07 2 n a n a n a Nigel Wilson 10324 Bill Ronald 10323 Keith Harris 9 3 2 3 Total meetings in year 10324 Note: n a denotes that a director was not a member of the relevant Committee.
As part of the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts are the key business risks faced by the Group the Board has established primary means used by the Board for communicating during the a Risk Management Group to oversee the implementation of the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board also risk management framework, co-ordinate risk management recognises the importance of the Internet as a means of activities throughout the business and to report to the Board and communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an Audit Committee on risk issues.
The Risk Management Group is investor relations website at www.
com has chaired by the Company Secretary and includes senior managers been developed to facilitate communications with shareholders.
from Finance, Business Systems, Supply Chain Logistics, Store Information available online includes copies of the full and halfAssurance and Internal Audit functions.
year financial statements, press releases and Company news, corporate governance information and statements and the terms The external auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Deloitte & Touche LLP, as independent adviser, is formally Committees.
engaged to provide internal audit services, reporting to the Board, via the Audit Committee.
These reports evaluate the adequacy The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear recommend improvements, based on a systematic risk their views and answer their questions about the Group and its assessment of the business.
The Company will dispatch the notice of the Annual General Meeting, with an explanatory circular describing any RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS items of special business, at least 20 working days before the The Board recognises the importance of establishing and meeting.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys Audit Committees will normally attend the meeting and will answer shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and the questions that may be relevant to the work of those Committees.
Chairman meet regularly with analysts and institutional If they are unable to attend they will appoint a deputy to attend in shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments their place.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate and report to the Board accordingly on the views of the major resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the Annual shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to General Meeting.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on the attend such meetings, if required.
Each of the other non-executive proxy voting details for each resolution after it has been put to directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with the meeting.
major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
The Companys investor relations programme The Companys financial calendar is set out on page 70. includes formal presentations of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention By order of the Board of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
Philip Parker, Company Secretary 6 June 2007
