84 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Corporate governance The Board is committed to the maintenance of high standards Board and Committee meeting attendance of Corporate governance.
The policy of the Board is to manage During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles meetings was as follows: of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on RemunNomeration Audit ination Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules Board Committee Committee Committee of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Total scheduled meetings 6 3 3 1 Geoff Unwin 6 1 N A 1 Compliance with the code of best practice Throughout the financial year, the Company complied with Andrew Williams 6 N A N A 1 the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Kevin Thompson 6 N A N A N A Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as amended in June 2006, except in respect of provisions A3.2 and C3.1, Neil Quinn 6 N A N A N A which involve the composition of the Board and the Audit Richard Stone 6321 Committee and the number of members who are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board reaffirmed its decision to Keith Roy 6 N A N A N A maintain the composition of the Board as a Chairman, three Stephen Pettit 6331 independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors and is currently in the process of recruiting an Andrew Walker 6331 independent non-executive Director to fill the vacancy arising Geoff Unwin was not a member of the Remuneration Committee when two of the on Andrew Walkers resignation.
The Board believes this three meetings of the Committee were held, but was in attendance.
composition is the most appropriate structure for the Company: the Chairman also specifically raised this point with shareholders Committees of the Board during the 2005 annual general meeting and received the Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration unanimous support of those present.
Once the non-executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, Director vacancy is filled, the Company will be able to report the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Facilities and Guarantees compliance with provision C3.1 relating to the composition of Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Each of these committees has terms of reference approved by the Board, copies of which are available on request from the Application of the principles of good governance Company Secretary.
The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting Remuneration Committee of a Chairman, four Directors and two other non-executive Richard Stone chairs the Remuneration Committee of which Directors.
Their biographies appear on page 78.
The Nomination Geoff Unwin and Stephen Pettit are members.
Andrew Walker Committee is currently in the process of recruiting another was also a member of the Committee up to the date of his non-executive Director.
This individual is expected to be a resignation.
The Committee makes recommendations to the member of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Board on the framework for executive Directors and senior Committees following appointment.
The Board considers the executives remuneration based on proposals formulated by Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors to be the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee meets at least twice independent.
In assessing independence, the Board considers per year.
Further information about the Committee is contained that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent in the Report on remuneration on pages 87 to 91. of management and free from business and other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment Audit Committee now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings Stephen Pettit chairs the Audit Committee, succeeding Andrew of the Chairman and non-executive Directors serve to align Walker who resigned in March 2007.
Richard Stone is also a their interests with those of all shareholders.
Richard Stone member of the Committee.
The Committee reviews the interim is acknowledged as the Senior Independent Director.
Upon and annual accounts and the disclosures contained therein, appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered accounting policies and matters of significant judgment, the appropriate training.
Each Director is subject to re-election statement on internal controls, the process of Internal Audit at least every three years.
The Chairman confirms that and the Group whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee is non-executive Directors standing for re-election continue also responsible for the relationship with the external auditors to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
including terms of engagement, fee levels, approval of the annual audit plan, a review of the findings of the audit and assessing The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of auditor effectiveness and independence.
The Chairman, Group corporate strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in reserved for the Boards decision and the Board meets at least order to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee routinely six times each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
meets with the Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive board Directors: the Committee meets at least three times per year.
papers in the week preceding each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board has designated Richard Stone as the member of the Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
His background is as a senior insolvency practitioner with Coopers & Lybrand later .
Halma p. l. c. 2007 85 Nomination Committee Investor relations Geoff Unwin chairs the Nomination Committee.
In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Group Andrew Williams, Richard Stone and Stephen Pettit are also Chief Executive and Group Finance Director communicate members.
Andrew Walker was a member up to the date of his the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information resignation.
The Committee makes recommendations to the as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Board on the appointment of new Directors.
External search Such meetings ensure that institutional shareholders consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive representing over 50% of the Companys issued share capital Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external meet with the Company on a regular basis.
Major shareholders candidates for succession planning.
The Committee meets are also offered the additional opportunity to meet with the at least annually.
As previously noted, the Committee is currently Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
in the process of recruiting a non-executive Director to fill the Kevin Thompson spoke at the Credit Suisse European Capital vacancy created by Andrew Walkers resignation.
Goods Conference in London in September 2006.
He talked Other committees about Halmas business sectors, strategy and track record.
The Share Plans, Bank Facilities and Guarantees and He also addressed some of the frequently asked questions Acquisitions and Disposals Committees terms of reference about Halma and looked at the Groups priorities for the provide that certain Directors and the Company Secretary current year.
may form sub-committees to cover administrative matters or to In February 2007, Halma hosted a site visit to its BEA subsidiarys formally enact matters that have already been determined by headquarters in Lige, Belgium for analysts and investors.
No new trading information is disclosed during such visits.
Executive Board Andrew Williams spoke at the Dresdner Kleinwort Capital Goods Control of divisional operating matters is delegated to Conference in London in March 2007. the Executive Board of which the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and all of the Divisional Chief All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general Executives are members.
Biographies of Executive Board meeting, and major shareholders are also invited to briefings members appear on pages 78 and 79.
The Group Chief following the interim and annual results.
The content of Executive chairs the Executive Board, which meets regularly, presentations to shareholders and analysts at results thereby ensuring the Boards strategies are communicated to announcements and all announcements are available those overseeing operations.
The Executive Board reviews operational activities, trading The Group website also contains electronic versions of the results, budgets, policy matters, investment opportunities, latest Annual report and accounts, Interim reports, biographical resource allocation and risk exposures.
Any matters arising information on key Directors and Officers, share price out of the Executive Board meetings are reported to the information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well Board via the Group Chief Executives report to the Board.
as hotlinks to their own websites.
The website also contains the facility to request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director by the Group.
also meet regularly with each Divisional Chief Executive to monitor progress against key objectives and review The Financial calendar is set out on page 96. operational performance.
Going concern Individual operating company boards, chaired by the appropriate After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Divisional Chief Executive, manage operating companies.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate These boards have clearly defined responsibilities for the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable operation of their businesses, including compliance with future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern legislation and regulations, and for internal reporting.
The system basis in preparing the financial statements.
of internal control exercised within the Group is described below.
Internal control Board effectiveness The Board of Directors has overall responsibility to the The Board evaluates its performance and that of the shareholders for the Groups system of internal control and Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees at least responsibility for reviewing its effectiveness has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Any system of internal control can annually.
For 2006 07 the evaluation commenced with a provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which were material misstatement or loss.
compiled by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board at the February 2007 Board meeting.
The Board also Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of guidance for met in February 2007, separate from any scheduled meeting, directors on internal control Internal Control: Revised Guidance for a general discussion on Board effectiveness followed by a for Directors on the Combined Code October 2005, the Board meeting of the executive Directors with the Chairman, a meeting confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, of the Chairman and non-executive Directors, and then a evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the meeting of the non-executive Directors without the Chairman Group, that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
The outcomes of these meetings were then fed back This process has been reviewed by the Board, and the Group to individuals by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or accords with the current Turnbull guidance.
Group Chief Executive, as appropriate.
86 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Corporate governance continued The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have A set of warning signs which are specifically relevant to every audited the financial statements and have reviewed the internal Halma operating company has been developed and these are financial control systems to the extent they consider necessary reported and monitored each month with actions taken at to support their audit report.
These warning signs are firmly embedded within the operating processes of each company.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted As a result, potential risks are highlighted at an earlier stage a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for corrective action.
This schedule was reviewed during the year.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors maintain full The Group Chief Executive submits a report to each and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and Halma p. l. c. Board meeting which includes financial information, organisational issues.
the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing the Group at that time.
Central insurance cover is maintained for the Group and its operating companies and its adequacy is subject to annual Cyclical internal audit visits, the depth of which has been review by the Board of Directors.
increased this year, are carried out by senior finance staff resulting in actions fed back to each company and followed up Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which by Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
spreads the Group activities across a number of autonomous Visit reports are coded in terms of risk with any significant subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies operates with control failings reported directly to the Audit Committee and a high quality board of directors including a finance executive.
a summary of all such visits reported to the Audit Committee regularly.
Senior finance staff also carry out financial reviews Group companies operate under a system of controls which at each operating company prior to publication of half year includes but is not limited to: and year end figures.
a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority to operational management: The Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of Internal Control for its deployment of finance executives in each operating company.
The Board receives the papers and minutes of the Audit Further resource continues to be added in this area: Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, The Audit Committee established the internal audit function for through an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local independent reporting of the outcome of internal control visits level and informally through close monitoring of operations: to the Audit Committee following its review of internal control activities in 2004. a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets and As a result of the assessment of the Groups internal audit the previous years figures on a monthly basis and reviewed activities carried out last year, new resource has been added at both local and Group level: and additional training undertaken.
an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure: Auditor independence The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor self-certification by operating company management of independence and objectivity annually.
During 2003 04, the compliance and control issues, a process which was further Committee set down the Policy on Auditor Independence and strengthened during the year: Services provided by the External Auditor.
This policy states that the Group will only use the appointed external auditor for a robust IT network for Group communication.
non-audit services in cases where these services do not conflict The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the with the auditors independence.
The policy also sets a fee level effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are of 100,000 above which non-audit services are subject to a summarised below.
The above fee levels for non-audit services regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual Operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment cap equal to the audit fee.
each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which action is monitored through to resolution.
In addition, Divisional Chief Executives carry out an independent risk assessment for each operating company.
A review of Group risks is also conducted.
Each month the board of each operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and report progress to the Executive Board.
