Directors Report Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 From left to right 1.
Paul Stoneham Bob Lawson, 62 Paul Venables, 45 Brian Wallace, 53 William Eccleshare, 51 Chairman Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Appointed Chairman of the Board Appointed Group Finance Director Director Director and of the Nomination Committee on 2 May 2006.
A Chartered Appointed non-executive Director Appointed non-executive Director on 1 July 2001.
He joined Hays as a Accountant, he came to the Group on 5 March 2001, he is Chairman on 24 November 2004, he is a non-executive Director on 1 July 1998 from DHL Logistics, a division of of the Audit Committee and a member of the Audit, Nomination and became Deputy Chairman on Deutsche Post World Net.
Prior to member of the Nomination and and Remuneration Committees.
A qualied the acquisition of Exel plc by Deutsche Remuneration Committees, and He is Chairman and Chief engineer with an MBA, his career Post in December 2005, he was is Senior Independent Director Executive of BBDO Europe, has spanned several United Deputy Group Finance Director and in accordance with the Combined Middle East and Africa.
Formerly Kingdom and continental groups, a member of the executive board of Code.
He is Group Finance Director Chairman and CEO of Young & including three years as Managing Exel plc.
During 13 years with Exel of Ladbrokes plc and a non-executive Rubicam Wunderman Europe.
Director of Vitec Group plc and more he held a number of senior finance Director of Scottish & Newcastle Paul Harrison, 43 recently 10 years as Chief Executive and operational roles, including plc.
From 1995 to February 2006, Independent Non-Executive of Electrocomponents plc.
Finance Director of Exels European he was a Director of Hilton Group Director and Global operations.
plc, latterly as Deputy Chief Denis Waxman, 60 Appointed non-executive Director Executive and Finance Director.
Chief Executive Lesley Knox, 54 on 8 May 2007, he is a member Prior to that, he held various financial Appointed Chief Executive on Independent Non-Executive of the Audit, Nomination and positions with Price Waterhouse, 1 July 2004.
He joined the Hays Director Remuneration Committees.
A Schlumberger, APV plc and Geest.
plc Board on 10 March 1998 as Appointed non-executive Director Chartered Accountant, he is the Director responsible for Specialist on 30 April 2002, she is Chairman Alison Yapp, 41 Group Finance Director of The Recruitment.
He has been Managing of the Remuneration Committee Company Secretary and Sage Group plc.
Director of the business since and a member of the Audit and General Legal Counsel it was acquired by the Group in Nomination Committees.
A founder Appointed Company Secretary Paul Stoneham, 45 1986 and was one of the original Director of British Linen Advisers and General Legal Counsel on Independent Non-Executive founders of the business in 1969. a specialist corporate finance 30 January 2006.
A qualied Director adviser until 2002, previously she Solicitor, with over 15 years Appointed non-executive Director Alistair Cox, 46 was a Corporate Finance Director experience within a number of on 24 November 2004, he is a Chief Executive Designate and then Head of Institutional Asset international groups, she was member of the Audit, Nomination Appointed to the Board on Management at Kleinwort Benson.
previously Company Secretary and Remuneration Committees.
1 September 2007, he will succeed She is Chairman of the Alliance and Group Legal Adviser of Charter Formerly Managing Director of Denis Waxman as Chief Executive Trusts plc and also a non-executive plc, an international engineering Boots Healthcare International as soon as the handover is complete.
Director of HMV Group plc.
company, and prior to that held and former President, Global A Chartered Engineer, he was senior legal positions in Johnson Business Development for the previously Chief Executive of Xansa Matthey plc and Cookson Matthey Colgate-Palmolive company.
plc and formerly Regional President Ceramics plc.
of Asia for Blue Circle Industries latterly Lafarge.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Hays plc is committed to the highest standards of Board independence corporate governance and bases its actions on the principles set The roles and responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive out in the June 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance are separate.
A formal division of each individuals responsibilities the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
has been agreed and documented by the Board.
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles Mr B G Wallace is the Companys Senior Independent Director of the Code.
and will be standing down as a non-executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 15 November 2007.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2007, the Company has, Mrs L M S Knox has agreed to assume the role of Senior without exception, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 Independent Director.
The non-executive Directors bring an independent view to the Board Boards discussions and the development of its strategy.
Their The Board provides leadership and stewardship.
The Board range of experience ensures that managements performance comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and in achieving the business goals is challenged appropriately.
Seven Directors served In conjunction with the executive Directors, they ensure that throughout the financial year.
Mr P S Harrison was appointed financial controls and systems of risk management are both a non-executive Director on 8 May 2007 and Mr A R Cox was rigorous and adequate for the businesses needs.
appointed an executive Director on 1 September 2007.
The All the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board biographical details for all of the Directors appear on page 24, to be independent as detailed in the Code.
and demonstrate the range of experience and independent judgement they each bring to the Board on all matters.
The letters of appointment for non-executive Directors are available for review at the Registered Ofce and prior to the The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved Annual General Meeting.
For information regarding the Annual for its decision, including acquisitions and disposals, major General Meeting please refer to the separate Shareholder Circular.
capital projects, financial results, Board appointments, dividend recommendations, material contracts and Group strategy.
The Performance evaluation Board met 10 times during the year.
Egon Zehnder has, on behalf of the Board, conducted a review of The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans the Boards effectiveness and the effectiveness of its Committees the programme for Board visits both in the UK and overseas, and in 2007.
The findings of the review have been considered by the presentations from senior executives during the year.
The agenda Board and certain actions will be implemented as a result.
Egon for Board and Committee meetings is considered by the relevant Zehnder also assisted in the individual evaluation of each Director.
Chairman and issued with supporting papers during the preceding This has been provided to the Senior Independent Director, week.
For each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board pack Mr B G Wallace, in respect of the performance evaluation of including detailed monthly management accounts, brieng papers the Chairman and to the Chairman in respect of the evaluation on commercial and operational matters and major capital projects of the remaining Directors.
This has enabled constructive including acquisitions.
feedback to be given to each Director.
The attendance of those Directors in place at the year end at Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Directors being put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting continues to be effective and that their Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
The Senior Independent Director is satisfied that Mr R A Lawson, the No.
Held 10 44 6 Chairman, is suitable for re-election at the forthcoming Annual No.
R A Lawson 10 4 Responsibilities and membership of Board Committees D R Waxman 10 The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
C W Eccleshare 10 34 6 The terms of reference for all three Board Committees are L M S Knox 10 44 6 published on the Companys website, www.
com, and are P H Stoneham 93 3 4 also available from the Company Secretary at the Registered Ofce.
P Venables 10 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee identies and selects candidates B G Wallace 10 41 5 in connection with any proposed new appointments of Directors P S Harrison 31 1 1 and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and A procedure exists for the Directors, in the furtherance of their B G Wallace were members of the Committee throughout the duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, year.
Mr P S Harrison was appointed to the Committee on 8 May under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the 2007.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation when appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice During the year under review, a new non-executive Director and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to Mr Harrison was appointed to the Board.
In consultation with the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied the Board, the Nomination Committee identied the type of with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
candidate and experience needed for the role, using the services On appointment, Directors receive a formal induction, which of a search agency, and reviewed external candidates for the includes visits to relevant business units and functions.
These consideration of the Board.
From the selection of candidates, the are tailored to the individual needs of the Directors and continue Nomination Committee put forward a final recommendation for throughout their tenure.
Brieng sessions on legislative and the appointment of Mr Harrison as a non-executive Director to accounting developments are held for the Board when appropriate.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Also during the year, the Chairman, in conjunction with the health & safety functions report to the Board via the Company Nomination Committee, reviewed the role and type of individual Secretary.
Procedures are clearly dened to ensure that the needed to succeed Mr D R Waxman as Chief Executive following activities of these functions reduce the risk prole of the his forthcoming retirement.
A rm of external search agents was organisation.
An overview of the Groups treasury policy is commissioned to review both internal and external candidates set out on page 11. for the consideration of the Nomination Committee.
From the The Group has an ongoing process for the identication, selection of candidates, the Nomination Committee put forward evaluation and reporting of major business risks.
Progress on the a final recommendation for the appointment of Mr A R Cox as an management of key issues is reported through the management executive Director to the Board for approval.
Mr Cox will assume structure to executive management and to the Board.
the role of Chief Executive once the handover from Mr Waxman is complete.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at Remuneration Committee business and Group level.
This process includes the identication Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, chairs and quantication of significant risks relating to markets and the Remuneration Committee.
Monthly performance is reported against budget Stoneham and B G Wallace were members of the Committee and prior year.
The monthly management accounts analyse and throughout the year.
Mr P S Harrison was appointed to the explain variances against budget and report on key indicators, Remuneration Committee on 8 May 2007. with detailed explanations for variances and movements in The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the forecasts provided to the Board.
Board, the remuneration and benets of the Chairman and The Group has an internal audit department.
The resources executive Directors of the Company and monitors the levels of of this department are augmented with independent expert remuneration and benets of selected senior managers of the external resources, wherever necessary, to review risk and Group.
In formulating its remuneration policy, the Remuneration monitor compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Committee gives full consideration to the matters set out in Regular reviews of the most important controls are undertaken Schedule A to the Code.
The Groups remuneration policy to ensure that key control objectives are achieved.
Reports is described in the Remuneration Report on page 30. on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls are The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of nonregularly presented to executive management and to the executive Directors, after taking into account fees payable by Audit Committee and recommendations are agreed upon comparable companies and after receiving external advice.
Audit Committee Although the Group transformation is complete in all material A full report on the activities of the Audit Committee is included respects, there is a level of residual risk.
Management continues on page 28. to monitor and control any matters that arise.
The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through Internal control review by executive management reporting to the Board.
This The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal is supplemented by reviews undertaken by the internal audit control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness.
The department of the controls in operation in the business units.
Board has delegated responsibility for the review of the Groups The internal review process has been in place for the year under internal controls to the Audit Committee.
A review has been review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report completed for the year ended 30 June 2007 in accordance with and Accounts.
the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Groups assets and to Relations with shareholders ensure the reliability of information used both within the business The executive Directors of the Company have a regular dialogue and for publication.
with analysts and substantial shareholders.
All non-executive Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Directors are aware of the programme of proposed visits and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide are invited to attend.
Investors are offered the opportunity to only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material meet the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
The key features of the internal control Published broker reports are circulated to the Board which systems which operated throughout the period covered by the consider the issues raised within them.
The Groups advisers financial statements and up to the date of signing the accounts maintain a dialogue with major shareholders and after each are described below.
investor roadshow compile a report of shareholders views on key Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations issues and management performance.
This report is subsequently of the business has been delegated to the Chief Executive and provided by the Board.
his Management Board, comprising the Group Finance Director, The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to Regional Managing Directors and Human Resources Director.
In addition, preliminary results The Company Secretary attends all Management Board meetings.
are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon Clear levels of authority and terms of reference exist for the as they are announced.
Also, at least twice a year, the Company Management Board.
As far as possible, the business units are hosts a teleconference for analysts and investors.
The Notice of given autonomy, whilst operating within an established internal the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 November 2007 is control environment as set out in the Group Policies and contained in the separate Shareholder Circular and will be sent to Procedures Manual.
This manual is designed to ensure that shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Each significant risks, investment decisions and management issues substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice of Annual are escalated to Board level at the earliest appropriate General Meeting as a separate resolution and there are separate opportunity.
The Group Policies and Procedures Manual is resolutions relating to the Annual Report and Accounts and updated on an ongoing basis to reect changes in procedures the Directors Remuneration Report.
Furthermore, it is intended as and when they occur.
that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Certain specic administrative functions are controlled centrally Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting.
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report At the meeting all resolutions will be taken on a poll and the to the Board via the Finance Director.
The legal, compliance and results published on the Company website www.
