Going concern The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis as of the corporate and financial information included on the the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in As required by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, accordance with applicable law and regulations.
each of the Directors as at 3 September 2007 confirms that: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and to prepare the Group financial statements under International b the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself European Union.
The Group financial statements are also aware of any relevant audit information and to establish required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Words and phrases used in this conrmation should be IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly interpreted in accordance with section 234ZA of the Companies for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial Act 1985. performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
