Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Corporate Governance The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate Finance Director and three independent non-executive directors, governance and, save as set out on page 34, throughout the year ended Dick Peters, Mike OLeary and David Grove.
Mike OLeary was the 31 December 2007 the company complied with the principles set out Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
Biographical details in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the current directors are given on page 22. adopted in July 2003 and as amended in 2006 the Code.
This statement explains our governance policies and practices and The board usually meets eight or nine times a year and normally describes how the company has applied the principles and provisions includes at least one meeting at an operating business.
During the year of the Code.
there are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present Directors and board effectiveness should this be deemed appropriate.
The board is collectively responsible for the success of the group.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a Board balance and independence framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk For the majority of the year the board complied with the Code to be assessed and managed: to set strategic aims, ensure that the requirement that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet its comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be objectives and review management performance: to set the groups independent.
The board did not comply during the period 25 May 2007 values and standards: and to ensure that its obligations to its to 19 October 2007, following the resignation of Tom Anderson and shareholders and others are understood and met.
prior to the appointment of David Grove.
All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and free from any business To help ensure the effective control of the group, the board has a or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise number of items reserved for its sole consideration: of their independent judgement.
Each non-executive director possesses a wide range of skills and experience.
The board will keep under review setting group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium the size and structure of the board to ensure it is appropriate for the term projections.
ongoing business reviewing operational and financial performance.
approving acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive reviewing the groups systems of financial control and risk The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief management.
Executive are clearly divided, set out in writing and periodically reviewed ensuring that appropriate management development and succession by the board.
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership plans are in place.
of the group, the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the reviewing the health and safety and environmental performance of board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Group Chief Executive is the group.
responsible for implementing strategy, running the businesses in approving appointments to the board and to the position of accordance with the objectives and policies agreed by the board and for Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to directors the executive management of the group.
remuneration and the severance of directors service contracts.
ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
The other significant current commitments of the Chairman are listed in approval of results announcements and the annual report and his biography on page 22 and the board is satisfied that his existing accounts.
commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to the group.
setting and agreeing dividend policy.
approving and reviewing the groups treasury policy.
Board information, induction, training and professional development reviewing the groups approach to corporate governance and The board has a forward rolling business agenda which is regularly ensuring compliance with the listing requirements.
updated to include specific topics that directors have requested for setting the groups policy with regards to corporate social review at future meetings.
The board reviews the key activities of the responsibility.
business receiving papers and presentations from senior management and external advisers to enable it to do so effectively.
The board receives Further details of the boards role in relation to the groups systems of regular reports from the executive management covering a broad range internal control and risk management are given on pages 33 and 34. of issues including health, safety and environmental matters, finance and A description of the specific responsibilities delegated to the principal operational performance, risk management, business development board committees is given on pages 31 to 33. initiatives, special projects, legal and regulatory developments, governance and best practice guidelines that affect the group.
The Company As of 31 December 2007, the board comprised Graham Waldron, Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual Chairman, Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive, Steve Wilson, Group directors, in respect of board procedures.
In conjunction with the Headlam Group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures that information distributed The schedule of matters reserved for the board, statements outlining to the board is sufficient, clear and accurate, that it is circulated in a the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the terms of timely manner and is appropriate to enable the board to discharge its reference of the committees and other policy statements are duties.
Comprehensive briefing papers are generally provided to all periodically reviewed as part of the evaluation process.
directors one week before board meetings.
The Chairman communicates frequently with the non-executive and On joining the board, a director receives a comprehensive induction executive directors.
Directors are also encouraged to discuss any issues pack which includes background information about the group and its or concerns with the Chairman at any time throughout the year and directors, details of board meeting procedures, directors responsibilities, ensure that any unresolved issues are formally minuted.
procedures for dealing in company shares and a number of other governance-related issues.
The director meets with the Group Chief Director re-election Executive to be briefed on the general group strategy encompassing All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM visits to group businesses.
External training, particularly on matters following their appointment by the board.
Under the articles of relating to the role of a director and the role and responsibilities of association of the company, each of the directors is required to retire by board committees, is arranged as appropriate.
Ongoing training is rotation at least once every three years.
Details of the directors retiring provided as and when necessary and may be identified in annual and seeking re-election at an AGM are given to shareholders in the performance reviews or on an ad hoc basis.
The suitability of external Notice of Meeting.
courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary.
Training and development of directors in the year took various forms, including visits Accountability and audit to group businesses, with the Group Chief Executive, attendance by The statement of the responsibility of directors for the preparation of certain directors at courses run by professional bodies and solicitors, the Directors Report and the accounts under adopted IFRS is set out attendance at external training sessions and seminars on matters on page 28.
The directors confirmation that they consider it appropriate relevant to members of the audit and remuneration committees and to prepare the accounts for 2007 on a going concern basis is given on workshops run by external bodies on various commercial and page 28. regulatory matters.
Directors receive regular updates appropriate to the business throughout the year and the company provides resources for Communication with shareholders directors to develop and refresh their knowledge and capabilities as In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a balanced required.
All directors are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and as to be able to participate fully in the work of the board.
prospects and this is outlined in the Business Review.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its half year and full To assist with the independent conduct of their function, the nonyear results are announced and an interim and a full year report is issued executive directors are able to obtain professional advice at the to shareholders.
There are regular institutional, analyst and media companys expense, if required in connection with their duties, and a presentations which cover strategy, trading and market conditions.
process is in place to facilitate this.
In addition, all directors have access The company seeks to present an accurate and objective view in a to the services of the Company Secretary.
The group maintains manner appropriate for the intended audience.
Contact with the major appropriate directors and officers liability insurance cover.
shareholders is principally maintained by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman ensures that the views of Board appointments and performance evaluation shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
The board is There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of provided with a summary of the feedback from broker and shareholder new directors to the board.
This is described in the section on the meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Nominations committee below.
The non-executive directors are initially Finance Director have met with the companys brokers during the year appointed for a three-year term and, subject to review and re-election, to ensure they are aware of the current views of major shareholders and can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
During the year, using of any material issues they may have.
These reports include summaries an in-house process, the board conducted a formal evaluation of its own prepared by the companys brokers on the markets reaction to results performance and that of its committees and individual directors, announcements and the subsequent meetings between management and including the Chairman involving the completion of a questionnaire.
External brokers reports on the company are circulated to all No actions were considered necessary as a result of the evaluations.
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive The board intends to conduct a further evaluation of its performance directors are invited to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders, during 2008 with the aim of continually improving processes, procedures in particular the annual and interim results presentations.
meetings were requested by shareholders with the non-executive directors during the year.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Corporate Governance continued All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to The committee has an agenda linked to events in the groups financial ask questions during the meeting and to meet with directors after the calendar, normally meeting at least twice a year, including meetings before formal proceedings have ended.
The group seeks to present an accurate, the annual and interim results announcements.
The committee met three objective and balanced picture in its annual and interim reports, trading times in the year, members attendance record being given on page 33. statements, results presentations and city announcements in a style and All of the committee members attended the meetings that they were format which is appropriate to the intended audience.
Copies of annual eligible to attend.
The committee has authority to investigate any matters and interim reports are available on its website.
The notice of the within its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least twenty-one and to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the company.
clear days before the meeting, and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantial issue.
Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the At each meeting there is an opportunity for the external auditor to level of proxy votes received, including the percentage for and against discuss matters with the committee without any executive management each resolution together with the level of abstentions, following each being present.
The committee has independent access to the external vote on a show of hands.
The company issues a market announcement auditor who has direct access to the Chairman of the committee after the conclusion of the AGM setting out the voting results of the outside formal committee meetings.
The Audit committee has the various resolutions and details are made available on the companys specific task of keeping under review the nature and extent of non-audit website.
services provided by the external auditor in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
The external auditor has in Details of the 2008 AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting in a place processes to ensure its independence is maintained including separate circular issued to shareholders, along with details of the facilities safeguards to ensure that, where it does provide non-audit services, its available for proxy votes to be cast electronically.
The company offers independence is not compromised.
It has written to the audit committee shareholders the right to withhold their vote, if they so wish, in line with confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
During the 2007 financial period, the Audit committee discharged its Board committees responsibilities by: The terms of reference of the following board committees are available upon request.
reviewing the groups draft 2006 preliminary annual results announcement and financial statements and 2007 interim results Audit committee statement prior to board approval, including consideration of the At 31 December 2007, membership of the Audit committee comprised significant accounting judgments contained therein, and reviewing Dick Peters Chairman, Mike OLeary and David Grove.
Each of these the external auditors detailed reports thereon.
directors is non-executive and regarded by the board as independent.
The board has determined that Dick Peters has recent and relevant reviewing the groups trading update announcement prior to release financial experience.
Only members of the committee are entitled to be at the AGM.
present at meetings however the auditor, Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend meetings by invitation.
reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the groups The company does not have a formal internal audit function, considering accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting that one is not appropriate, however the Finance Director for standards and methods used to account for significant or unusual Operations reports to the Group Finance Director and has access to transactions.
the Chairman of the committee.
The committee members, all other directors and senior management have direct access to the external reviewing regularly the potential impact on the groups financial auditor throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or statements of certain matters such as impairment of asset values and concerns.
The committee monitors the integrity of the companys financial reviewing the effectiveness of the 2006 external audit process and statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is recommending to the board, after due consideration, the responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the reappointment of the incumbent external auditor at the AGM.
company and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees, and makes recommendations to the board reviewing the application of the boards policy on non-audit work on the appointment, re-appointment or dismissal of the external auditor.
performed by the groups external auditor together with the It also reviews the groups systems of internal control and the processes non-audit fees payable to the external auditor in 2006. for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group on an ongoing basis.
The committee periodically reviews its terms of reference and its reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the groups 2007 accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the effectiveness and recommends to the board any changes required as a accounts, confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed result of such review.
audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit.
Headlam Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued reviewing reports from the external auditor on the groups systems as directors of the company and as Company Secretary, giving full of internal control in advance of the announcement of the groups consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the results for 2006 the internal report included a summary of and group.
It also makes recommendations to the board on the composition commentary on the business risks and internal control processes and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
It keeps and reporting to the board on the results of this review and under review the structure, size and composition of the board, including reviewing interim updates prior to the interim results.
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes recommendations to the receiving regular updates from management on key financial control board with regard to any changes.
The committee meets periodically matters arising in the group.
Members attendance record at meetings of the committee in 2007 is given below.
Only members of the committee are considering the appropriateness of an internal audit function.
entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by the committee to attend.
The board has agreed the procedures to be During the year the committee reviewed the scope and programme followed by the Nominations committee in making appointments to the of work to be undertaken by the external auditor, considered the various positions on the board and as Company Secretary.
independence and objectivity of services provided and reviewed the The committee has access to such information and advice both from level of fees paid for those services.
Whilst KPMG have been an external within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as it deems auditor to the group since 1991, there is a procedure in place for the necessary.
This may include the appointment of external executive audit partner to change every five years, so maintaining objectivity and search consultants, where appropriate.
The procedures referred to independence without the need to change firms.
The last such a change above were used in the appointment during 2007 of David Grove as a took place during 2007. non-executive director.
This included an assessment of the time commitment expected from the director.
Independent executive search Resolution 6 set out in the Notice of AGM recommends that consultants were not used in connection with the appointment.
shareholders re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the groups auditor and No director is involved in any decisions regarding their appointment.
resolution 7 authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
The committee performed the above activities as necessary in 2007.
When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the group considers the All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three year term value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this respect pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which is available for it has used Deloitte & Touche to conduct non-audit tax work.
The viewing at the companys registered office during normal business hours committee recognises that there are occasions when it is advantageous or at the AGM.
to use the external auditor to undertake non-audit services, when they are best placed to do so.
The committee operates under a formal policy The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive a full approved by the board to help ensure the independence and objectivity induction and when considering the re-appointment of directors of the external auditor is not compromised.
The policy states that ensures that the board has an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge non-audit fees paid to the principal external auditor should not exceed and experience.
Items discussed by the committee during the year to enable it to discharge its duties in accordance with its terms of reference 250% of the audit fee, except in the case of significant events.
The Chairman of the committee is required to authorise non-audit work included: above a pre-agreed threshold.
Note 3 to the group accounts provides a breakdown of 2006 and 2007 audit and non-audit fees.
In 2007, the the size, structure, composition and skills of the board membership.
non-audit services provided by the external auditor was well below the the consideration of potential candidates submitted by members of the board regarding the appointment of an independent nonpre-agreed threshold, being predominantly in respect of the winding up or liquidation of non-trading subsidiary companies.
the proposal to re-elect Tony Brewer and Dick Peters under the Remuneration committee retirement by rotation provisions.
Details of the Remuneration committee, including membership, are set the board and board committee evaluation process.
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 40, which should be read in conjunction with this report.
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates from the Group Chief Executive on succession and development planning for Nominations committee senior positions within the group.
Changes to directors commitments During the year the Nominations committee consisted of the are reported to the committee as they arise and are considered on their individual merits.
There were no significant changes to any of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive under the Chairmanship of Mike OLeary.
Appointments to the committee are directors external commitments during the year.
The committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations to the board on candidates for appointment Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Corporate Governance continued Directors attendance record The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the board and of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations committees held during 2007 was as follows: Board Committee meetings meetings Remuneration Audit Nominations Number of meetings in the year 8234 Number attended by each member Graham Waldron 8 Tony Brewer 8 4 Stephen Wilson 8 Tom Anderson resigned 25 May 2007 3 1 1 2 Dick Peters 8 2 3 4 Mike OLeary 8 2 3 4 David Grove appointed 19 October 2007 211 Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the committee Chairman.
Risk management and internal controls procedures which are applied at all businesses and the group finance The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and maintaining the team performs annual reviews to verify that the businesses are groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
complying with the prescribed operating and financial control procedures.
In addition, the board reviews the groups high level internal The board confirms that it has established procedures necessary to controls and risk management arrangements.
Furthermore, the Audit comply with the Code to implement the guidance on internal control committee receives reports from the external auditor on matters issued by the Turnbull Committee: and is reporting in accordance with identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
that guidance These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of The board is responsible for ensuring that the group maintains accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by systems of internal controls, including internal financial control, management for completeness and accuracy.
These procedures allow operational and compliance controls and risk management systems and for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of for monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
Meetings of the board management through to the board.
Planned corrective actions are and the Audit committee ensure that risk management and internal monitored for timely completion.
Having reviewed its effectiveness, the control are considered on a regular basis throughout the year, and are directors are not aware of anything in the groups systems of control subject to continuous review and development.
This includes during the period covered by this report and accounts which could consideration of corporate social responsibility matters.
There were no changes in the groups internal controls or financial reporting that have materially affected, or are The systems are designed to meet the groups particular needs and to reasonably likely to affect, the groups systems of internal control.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the businesses are exposed.
By their nature, they provide only reasonable and not absolute The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including detailed assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board considers reviews at all subsidiary undertakings, together with formal reviews and that the measures taken, including physical controls, segregation of duties approval of annual plans by the board.
Actual performance is reported and reviews by management, provide sufficient and objective assurance.
on a monthly basis measured against plan and prior year including a detailed explanation of major variances.
The company and its subsidiary During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical undertakings have implemented control procedures designed to ensure reporting and review in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit groups systems of financial and non-financial controls.
The group has the potential exposure to fraud.
The group has clearly defined guidelines developed a comprehensive series of operating and financial control for capital expenditure and investment appraisal.
These include annual Headlam Group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued plans, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during the due diligence requirements when businesses are acquired.
Any recruitment process and monitored throughout employment.
Ethical acquisition or disposal of a business needs formal board approval.
standards expected of personnel are laid out in the group procedures The board reports that full procedures are in place to achieve manual.
compliance with the internal control aspects of the Code for the next financial period.
The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an ongoing process throughout the year.
Principal risks and uncertainties are set out on The output of these reviews form an important element of pages 24 to 25 of the Directors Report.
management reporting and a process is in place for monitoring the achievement of action plans together with the identification of new and This process has identified a number of risks where action plans have emerging risks.
An ongoing process of risk management and internal been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate these risks including control in accordance with the Code has been in place for the financial the use of insurance where appropriate.
The board has not identified or year under review and up to the date of this report.
The group views been advised of any significant failings or weaknesses where action has the careful management of risk as a key managerial activity in delivering not been taken which might have a material impact on the business.
The ethos of the group, delegation of responsibility and other control procedures together with accounting Compliance with the Combined Code policies and procedures are communicated through the group and laid The group was in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code out in the group procedures manual which is periodically updated.
throughout 2007, except with regard to the following aspects: The objective of the groups risk management processes is to ensure The Code provision A3.2 states that except for smaller companies, sustainable development throughout the conduct of its business in a at least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise way which: non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The Code provisions B2.1 and C3.1 state that the board should satisfies its customers.
establish both an Audit and a Remuneration committee of at least three, maintains proper relationships with suppliers and contractors.
or in the case of smaller companies, two members, who should all be protects against losses from unforeseen causes.
The group complied with these provides a safe and healthy workplace.
provisions up until the resignation of Tom Anderson on 25 May 2007 develops environmentally friendly processes.
and again from the appointment of David Grove on 19 October 2007. minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources.
The Code provision D. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director prevents pollution and waste.
should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding does business.
of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Whilst the opportunities exist, such meetings do not currently take place.
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at all However, the executive directors are fully aware of the issues and levels within the group.
The groups health and safety approach is concerns of the major shareholders and share these with the board supported by training programmes at operating businesses, group health twice a year following the announcement of interim and full year results.
and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a high level of awareness and commitment.
Individual businesses are assessed on a This directors report has been approved by the board and signed on its periodic basis, and remedial solutions implemented where necessary.
behalf by Line management retain the responsibility for completion of action plans with progress being monitored and reported.
Geoff Duggan Company Secretary The Audit committee meets at least twice a year and in accordance 17 March 2008 with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
In accordance with the Code the board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a group internal audit function.
The board considers that the control systems and procedures undertaken by the group are adequately performed by management and therefore does not currently propose to introduce a group internal audit function but will keep the matter under review.
