Audit Committee report The Combined Code requires that this Annual Report separately Composition describes the work of the Audit Committee and how it Hikmas Audit Committee comprises four members Breffni discharges its responsibilities.
Byrne, Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham, and Ronald Goode all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Terms of reference whose qualifications are set out on page 34.
The committee is The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters chaired by Breffni Byrne, who is a chartered accountant and who indicated by the Corporate Governance Principles and clearly set is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial out its authority and duties.
These can be found on the experience.
No members of the Committee have links with the Companys website at http: www.
com aboutus Companys external auditors.
The Company therefore considers governance boardcommittees and are summarised as follows: that it complies with the Corporate Governance Principles regarding the composition of the Audit Committee.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any other The Committee Chairman receives additional remuneration formal announcement relating to the Groups financial to compensate him for his additional responsibilities.
performance and review summary financial statements and significant financial returns to regulators: Responsibilities review and challenge accounting policies and accounting for The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its significant or unusual transactions: responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit and internal control.
This includes reviewing the review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, Companys annual financial statements, interim report and estimates and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in trading updates, reviewing and monitoring the extent of financial reports: non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, and monitoring review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, UK the effectiveness and output of the Companys internal Listing Authority and legal requirements including the audit activities, internal controls and risk management requirements of the Combined Code and Markets Law: systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting the effectiveness of the audit process.
The ultimate responsibility or other matters: for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial monitor and review the internal financial controls and the statements and the half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
Groups overall risk identification and management systems: Meetings consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the The Audit Committee met eight times during the year under internal audit function, its annual plan, its resources and access review, with the Chief Financial Officer and the Company to information and its freedom from management or other Secretary in attendance.
The Audit Committee reviewed the restrictions: 2006 annual report and financial statements, the 2007 interim review and monitor managements responsiveness to the report and each of the regulatory statements made by the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: Company in respect of trading and results issued during the year.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the audit plans for consider and make recommendations for appointment, re- 2007 for both internal and external auditors and the related appointment and removal of the Companys external auditor, scope of internal audit work to be undertaken.
The Committee and oversee the relationship with the external auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity risk management processes and the disclosures made in the of the external auditor accounting for relevant UK and annual report and financial statements on these matters.
professional regulatory requirements and approve their The Committee also reviewed its own terms of reference and remuneration and terms of engagement: general effectiveness, both specifically and in the context of the overall annual review of corporate governance matters develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external conducted by the Company.
auditor of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance and potential conflicts of interest.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte and Touche LLP, attended four Audit Committee meetings for the purposes of presenting The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the their 2006 audit results and findings, the results of the 2007 Audit Committee during the period under review and referred to interim review and their audit plan for 2007.
The internal the Board for approval.
auditors, Ernst & Young presented their 2007 audit plan and summary findings of their work to the Audit Committee, who continue to review the response by management, proposed action plans and the overall effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee also met with the Groups external auditor and internal auditor without executive management present.
40 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Audit Committee report In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the external auditor in the United States and also in Germany following the acquisition of Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan during the year.
The Audit Committee Chairman also met with Ernst & Young in late 2007 to discuss the scope of the 2008 internal audit programme.
Attendance of members at Audit Committee meetings is shown on page 37 of the report on corporate governance.
External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit, and has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services are outlined in Note 4 to the Group financial statements.
Audit-related services are services carried out by the external auditor by virtue of its role as auditor and principally include assurance-related work and accounting advice.
In line with audit independence requirements the external auditor does not provide services such as information system design and valuation or advocacy work which could be considered to be inconsistent with the audit role.
In addition audit related and non-related services provided by the external auditor in excess of certain monetary limits require prior approval by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor and is satisfied that the nature of these services has not compromised the auditors independence.
A policy has also been adopted whereby prior approval by the Audit Committee is required before the recruitment of a senior member of the audit team or the recruitment of an employee of the external auditors to a senior finance position within the Group.
The Group Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director, and Ronald Goode as a US-based member of the Audit Committee to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal control and other instances of allegedly improper behaviour by Group employees.
Overview The Audit Committee concludes that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and ensured the independence of external audits.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and recommends to the Board that they be re-appointed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committee.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 41
