Corporate Governance report Combined code now continues to serve the Company as its Non-Executive The Board is responsible for and committed to meeting the Chairman.
Previously, the Company had combined the roles of standards of good corporate governance set out in the Chairman and Chief Executive officer, both these roles having Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by been held by Samih Darwazah, the founder of the Group.
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 as revised Prior to his relinquishing the role of Chief Executive officer, the the Combined Code as well as the corporate governance Board believed that the unparalleled experience brought to the principles set out in the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Group by Samih Darwazah, being both its founder and its leader Services Authority the Markets Law together the Corporate through the transition from private to public company, justied Governance Principles.
This report, the Audit Committee his holding the positions of both Chairman and Chief Executive report set out on pages 40 and 41 and the Remuneration officer.
On the appointment of Said Darwazah as Chief Committee report set out on pages 44 to 53 describe how Executive officer, the Board undertook consultation with its the Board applied the Corporate Governance Principles during major shareholders and in conjunction with external advisers the year under review.
concluded that his former executive role with the Company The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the should not preclude Samih Darwazah from continuing to Markets Law require the Group to report on their application give important guidance to the Group through the Board as of the principles of good governance and the extent of its Non-Executive Chairman.
their compliance with the Corporate Governance Principles.
On the appointment of its new Chief Executive officer, the Board This statement provides details on how the Group has applied adopted written guidelines on the separation of the roles of these principles.
Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
The Board Each of Michael Ashton, Breffni Byrne, Ronald Goode and The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
Sir David Rowe-Ham are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards role is to determine the Groups long-term strategy: The fifth Non-Executive Director, Ali Al-Husry, who continues to to monitor the achievement of its business objectives: to ensure bring broad financial experience to the Board as well as a the Group has adequate resources available to meet these detailed knowledge of the MENA region which is significant objectives: to promote good corporate governance: and to to the Groups business, is not treated as being independent ensure that the Group meets it responsibilities to shareholders, as a result of his close links to the Darwazah family through employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
Darhold Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for During the year under review, the Company has complied consideration and decision, which is reviewed and updated with the Combined Code requirement that at least half of the annually.
This includes approval of strategic plans, approval of Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent financial statements and the annual Group budget, approval of Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who have material investment decisions, acquisitions and divestments, diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience bring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, internal control.
performance, resources, key appointments, standards of conduct Except for the matters formally reserved for the Board, and and other matters presented to the Board.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, The Senior Independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham.
the Board has delegated responsibility for the management of the Group, through the Chief Executive officer, to its executive Board procedures and support management team.
The Groups Board procedures require the provision of regular and necessary management information to Directors to enable Composition of the Board them to full their duties, with full Board papers circulated in A majority of the Board comprises Non-Executive Directors.
advance of Board and Committee meetings.
The Company The Board currently comprises of the Non-Executive Chairman, Secretary is charged with ensuring good information ow within the Chief Executive officer, the Executive Vice-Chairman and the Board and its committees, so that appropriate levels of five Non-Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors and their information are provided in a timely manner to the Board before biographical details are set out on page 35.
The Chairman and making decisions.
the Executive Vice-Chairman were appointed to the Board on the incorporation of the Company on 8 September 2005.
The Chief All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Executive officer was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007, and Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that good save for Ronald Goode, who joined the Board on 12 December board procedures are followed and for advising the Board 2006, each of the Non-Executive Directors joined the Board prior through the Chairman on all matters of corporate governance to to the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, maintain compliance throughout the Group.
The appointment on 14 October 2005. and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
To the extent necessary, the Directors are able to On 1 July 2007, on the recommendation of the Nomination obtain independent professional advice at the Companys Committee, the Board appointed Said Darwazah as the Chief expense in the performance of their duties as Directors.
Executive officer of the Company.
On this appointment, Samih Darwazah relinquished his role as Chief Executive officer, and 36 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Corporate Governance report Board meetings The evaluation process was led by the Senior Independent During the year under review, the Board held eight scheduled Director, who met with each of the Non-Executive Directors and meetings and three other meetings.
The Company Secretary the Committee Chairmen to undertake a formal appraisal of attended all Board meetings and Committee meetings.
the performance of the Board, its committees and each of the A table showing attendance at these meetings is set out below.
These discussions focused on Board and All directors attended meetings of the Board and committees of Committee performance, membership, timetabling, internal and which they are members unless, in the case of additional external support, the quality and timely availability of relevant meetings called on short notice, prevented from doing so by prior Board information and the contribution of, preparation for and commitments.
Where Directors are not able to attend such performance by individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings as a result of conicts in their schedule, they receive meetings.
The results of the evaluation process and feedback and read the papers for consideration at that meeting, relay were reviewed with the Chairman and formed part of his their comments in advance and, if necessary, follow up with appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its the Chairman on the decisions taken.
Overall the review concluded that the Board functions well, with good communication, and with issues raised in Board good time to allow for consultation, debate and effective Meeting record Scheduled Other Audit Remuneration Nomination decision-making.
Number of meetings 8 3 8 4 3 In addition to the matters set out above in respect of all Directors, Samih Darwazah 8 3 the Senior Independent Director met with the non-executive Said Darwazah 4 directors to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of Mazen Darwazah 8 3 3 the Chairman.
This review also addressed the effectiveness of his leadership, the setting of the Board agenda, communication with Ali Al-Husry 8 3 shareholders, internal communication and Board efficiency.
Michael Ashton 8 2 8 4 3 Directors service arrangements and terms of appointment Breffni Byrne 8 2 8 4 Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and David Rowe-Ham 8 3 8 4 3 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained Ronald Goode 8 3 7 4 in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 53.
Said Darwazah was appointed on 1 July 2007.
Directors remuneration The Directors maintain a close dialogue between Board meetings, Details of the remuneration of the executive and Non-Executive ensuring that, amongst other things, the Non-Executive Directors Directors are contained in the Remuneration Report set out on are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups pages 44 to 53. business.
Visits by each of the Non-Executive Directors to the Groups main facilities in the MENA region, the United States and Dialogue with shareholders Europe help to reinforce the Boards understanding of the key Ongoing communication with shareholders is a high priority.
business issues facing the Group.
The Company undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe, the United States Board performance evaluation and the MENA region.
This programme includes but is not limited All Directors other than Ronald Goode, who was elected by to one-on-one meetings, conference calls and presentations at shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 6 June investor conferences.
In addition the Company makes formal 2007, were elected by shareholders at the first Annual General presentations at the time of its annual and interim results which are Meeting, held on 25 May 2006.
Said Darwazah will be subject to webcast and disseminated on the Companys website.
election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be The Chief Executive officer, Executive Vice-Chairman, Chief held on 15 May 2008.
All Directors are subject to re-election at Financial officer and other senior corporate executives have intervals of no more than three years.
Non-Executive Directors all participated in this investor programme during the period are appointed for an initial term of three years, which can be under review.
renewed and extended for not more than two further three-year terms.
The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through the publication of the Companys Annual Report and The Chairman believes that the Non-Executive Directors continue Accounts and Interim Results, together with the opportunity to to bring a balance of skill and experience to the Board, and have question the Board and committees at the Annual General shown themselves to discharge their roles effectively and with Meeting.
The Company maintains a website www.
com commitment to their respective roles and to the strategic aims of containing financial and other information which is updated the Group.
Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors are set out regularly.
Additionally, the Company presents a balanced view on page 34. of the Groups performance and prospects through the release As required by the Combined Code, a formal evaluation of the of appropriate press announcements and other updates.
performance of the Board, the Chairman, the Committee Chairmen and the individual Non-Executive Directors was undertaken during the period under review.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 37 Corporate Governance report The Board is kept updated on the views of shareholders and The Committee met four times during the year with full the market in general through the feedback from the investor attendance.
The Committee is responsible for setting and meeting programme and results presentations.
Analysts reports reviewing executive remuneration and that of the Company are circulated to the Board members together with monthly Secretary and is able to take advice from external consultants Investor Relations Reports.
The Senior Independent Director has when required.
A full report on the role of the Remuneration undertaken to be available to shareholders if they have a concern Committee is set out in the Remuneration Committee report that cannot be appropriately addressed through the Chairman.
Audit Committee Board committees The Audit Committee consists of four independent Non-Executive In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, and in compliance with the Combined Code and the Markets Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
The Audit Committee Law, the Board maintains three committees the Audit therefore complies with the membership requirements laid out in Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration the Corporate Governance Principles.
The Group also has an Executive Committee comprising the Executive Directors and senior management of The Committee met eight times during the year.
A full report of the Group, and an Ethics Committee, which draws its members the role of the Audit Committee and the details of how it carried from the Board and the senior management of the Group.
out its duties is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 40 and 41.
Each of the three Combined Code committees has terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year.
Copies are Executive Committee published on the corporate website at www.
The Group also has an Executive Committee, made up of the Their Chairmen give regular reports of the committees business Executive Directors and other senior management of the Group, to the Board.
which oversees the day-to-day operation of the Groups major operating subsidiaries, implements the decisions of the Board, Nomination Committee and makes recommendations for the Boards approval.
The Nomination Committee consists of two independent Non-Executive Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham Committee Ethics Committee Chairman and Michael Ashton and the Executive ViceThe Ethics Committee is chaired by Michael Ashton and draws its Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
As required by the Corporate members from the Board Ronald Goode and Mazen Darwazah Governance Principles, the majority of the members of the and senior management across the Group.
The Ethics Committee Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and an aims to monitor ethical behaviour and integrity across all areas of independent Non-Executive Director holds the Chairmanship the Groups business.
Thus, the Committee is responsible for the of the committee.
review and approval of statements and policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles within the Group.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning and for ensuring that all appointments to the Board are Internal control made on objective criteria.
In accordance with its terms of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of reference, the Committee is required to take into account the internal control and risk management and has complied with the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in making its requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles in decisions and is able to use external search rms or open establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and advertising to compile shortlists of candidates for the Board.
managing the risks the Group faces.
The Board is responsible for It is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness of the monitoring the effectiveness of these systems on an ongoing size, structure and composition of the Board.
basis and, at least annually, conducting a formal review of the The Nomination Committee met three times during the year, Groups policies on internal control.
The system of internal control with full attendance, to review overall Board structure and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material composition and to recommend the appointment of a new misstatement or loss.
The Committee undertook extensive The key elements are as follows: discussions with the Groups advisers in respect of this appointment and conducted a directed consultation process An organisational structure with clear operating and reporting with major shareholders, culminating in the recommendation of procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and the appointment of Said Darwazah as the new Chief Executive delegated authority: officer of the Company.
Annual budgets, updated forecasting, and long-term business Remuneration Committee plans for the Group that identify risks and opportunities which The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys are reviewed and approved by the Board: four independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting which Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne, Sir David Rowe-Ham and includes regular comparison of financial results and key Ronald Goode.
The Remuneration Committee therefore complies performance indicators against budget, informed by with the membership requirements laid out in the Corporate management commentary: Governance Principles.
38 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Corporate Governance report A clearly defined process for controlling capital expenditure Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code and other financial commitments, including appropriate During the year under review, the Company applied the authorisation levels, which are monitored and approved by principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, including the Board on an ongoing basis: both the main principles and the supporting principles, and the corporate governance principles set out in the Markets Law.
Written policies on procedures for all material functional areas At the year end the Company was in full compliance with the with specific responsibility allocated to individual managers.
However, consistent with the During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its prior year and for the reasons outlined above, the founder of the management and execution of the Groups internal audit Group, Mr Samih Darwazah, occupied the roles of both Chief function on a global basis under a three year contract which Executive Officer and Chairman for the first half of the year commenced in 2006.
This involves a risk-driven approach to under review.
internal audit which is overseen by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit process focuses on reviewing areas of business Going concern risk, internal controls financial reporting and other systems in the The Board believes that the Group has adequate resources to Companys main subsidiaries and at the corporate level, with continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, regular reports of its findings made to the Audit Committee.
it will adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Ernst & Young have direct access to the Audit Committee and the Board Chairman.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls was conducted during the year.
Insurance The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of action taken against Directors.
Additionally, in accordance with Hikmas Articles of Association, to the extent permitted by law, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 39
