Corporate governance Compliance with the Code changes to the share capital of the Company: The Company has complied throughout the year with the appointment and removal of all Directors and senior provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined management: and Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The following paragraphs, together with the Directors corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 39, provide a description of the Company.
of how the Combined Code has been applied.
In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive The Board Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised four term of three years and the Articles of Association include a independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman, and two requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election Executive Directors being the Chief Executive Officer and the by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following Group Finance Director.
The biographical details of the members appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
Details of of the Board are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Board those Directors who will stand for re-election at the forthcoming considers that each of Roy Brown, Mark McCafferty, Lesley Knox Annual General Meeting can be found on page 43.
Each of these and Christopher Rogers are independent.
In addition, the Board Directors has been subject to evaluation, as indicated below, determined that Carl Symon was independent at the time of his and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role and appointment as Chairman on 1 February 2006.
The Company be an effective member of the Board.
Accordingly, the Board used external search consultants in respect of the appointment believes these Directors should be re-elected.
On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the success of induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training as the Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice at the cost of the the Company has appropriate objectives and an Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice effective strategy: and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement Board for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules the strategy: and regulations are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and Performance evaluation the Company is operating in accordance with the principles The Board has an established process for evaluating the of corporate governance.
individual Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board Committees.
This evaluation process involves an objective and The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge page 24.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint and experience of the Board and any development plans for the on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
The evaluation process for the Board as a whole and for The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative each of its Committees was conducted by means of detailed channel of communication for shareholders.
He also oversees questionnaires completed by all Directors.
The results of the senior executives remuneration and remuneration policy evaluation of each of the Board Committees were reviewed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief and discussed by each of the relevant Committees and then Executive Officer has overall responsibility for running the reported to the Board as a whole, together with the results of Companys business.
the appraisal of the Board itself.
A number of recommendations The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved were agreed for the Board and its Committees and these will to it for decision.
These include the following major matters: be implemented during 2007.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the individual approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, Board members through discussion with all Directors individually.
acquisitions and disposals by Group companies: The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation substantial alteration in the general nature of the business: of the Chairman and the views of the other Directors are canvassed.
The results of the performance evaluation for each approval of the operating plan and the three year of the Directors and the Chairman were reported to the Board.
strategic plan: The development plans for the Board and the performance setting of financial and dividend policies: evaluation process will continue to be reviewed annually.
The Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions without consideration of interim and final dividends: the Executive Directors being present during the year under change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: review, and met once without the presence of the Chairman.
26 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Board Committees Nomination Committee There are three principal Board Committees, each of which The Nomination Committee, throughout the year under review, regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms comprised Carl Symon, who was appointed Chairman of the of reference which can be found on the Companys website Committee on 1 February 2006, Roy Brown, Lesley Knox and www.
Each Committee has and will keep under Mark McCafferty, all of whom were appointed to the Committee review its terms of reference and its effectiveness and make on 23 April 2002 and Christopher Rogers who was appointed recommendations to the Board of any appropriate changes.
to the Committee on 1 October 2006.
The Company Secretary The chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets as to answer shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual and when required and during the period under review the General Meeting.
Committee met on four occasions.
These meetings were to evaluate the Committees own performance and to deal with Audit Committee succession planning issues.
The Audit Committee, as at the end of the financial year, Members attendance at meetings of the Committee during comprised Christopher Rogers Chairman, Lesley Knox, the period under review is set out on page 28.
The Committee Roy Brown and Mark McCafferty.
Mr Rogers was appointed to is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and nonthe Committee on 1 October 2006 and the other Committee executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill vacancies members were all appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002. as and when they arise and to put in place succession plans for The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Directors and other senior managers.
The Committee has access the Head of Internal Audit, and the external auditors were to such information and advice both from within the Group and invited and attended meetings of the Audit Committee.
externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems appropriate.
Christopher Rogers, Chairman of the Committee, is a qualified External consultants are used to assist in identifying suitable Chartered Accountant, and Finance Director of Whitbread plc, external candidates based on a written specification for each and thus, has recent relevant financial experience.
Committee members prepare a shortlist of believes that the other Committee members have relevant candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate experience to serve on this Committee.
is then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and The Committee is required to meet a minimum of three approval by the Board.
In addition, the Committee will review times a year and members attendance at the Committee can the Board structure, size and composition and from time to be found on page 28.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the time make any relevant recommendations to the Board.
external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least twice The main duties of the Committee are as follows: a year.
As at the end of the year under review, the Committee i monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the comprised Roy Brown Chairman, Lesley Knox and Mark financial statements: McCafferty, all of whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002, and Christopher Rogers, who was appointed to ii the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness the Committee on 1 October 2006.
No person other than the and independence of the external auditors: members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings iii approval of the scope of the Companys risk management but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
programme and review of the risk management process: No Director is present when the Committee considers matters relating to him or acts in matters relating to him.
iv reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of audit function: and service and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors v to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good and other senior managers of the Group in accordance with business practices throughout the Group.
a remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman During the period under review, the Committee met on three and the terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, terminated, having regard to a severance policy adopted by the including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements, Board.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual trading statements and other regulatory information disclosed report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 30 to 39. to the public, to conduct a review of the internal audit function and to receive regular reports from internal audit, before making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
27 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued A record of members attendance at the Board and other Committee meetings is as follows: Board attendance chart Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 12 14 3 3 6 6 4 4 Neil Bright 14 14 3 1 Simon Fox 8 9 1 2 1 Alan Giles 6 6 2 2 David Kappler 2 4 0 2 1 1 Lesley Knox 12 14 3 3 6 6 4 4 Steve Knott 11 11 Mark McCafferty 11 14 2 3 4 6 3 4 Brian McLaughlin 4 6 Christopher Rogers 8 8 1 1 2 2 1 1 Carl Symon 14 14 3 5 3 4 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not a Committee member but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
Instances of non-attendance were in respect of additional meetings arranged at short notice or where a Director had a conflict with another meeting.
Internal control a comprehensive system of financial reporting, which The Board attaches considerable importance to, and includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of internal with rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting control and risk management and carries out regular reviews to enable the Group to meet its public financial of their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is designed to reporting requirements: manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business regular performance monitoring, with remedial action objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute taken where necessary: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management regular Board meetings, with a formal schedule of matters process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for reserved to the Board for decision: consideration.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups established procedures for planning, approving and system of internal controls including financial, operational and monitoring major projects: compliance controls as well as risk management, and that these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out a policies and procedures manual, which sets out, inter in the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the alia, authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in which include annual budgets and appraisal and review October 2005, and that such controls have been in place during procedures.
All operating businesses have to confirm the year under review and up to the date of approval of the compliance with the manual on an annual basis: Annual report and Accounts and that there are satisfactory certain centralised functions, that are staffed by appropriately ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing qualified individuals who draw on external professional the significant risks faced by the Group.
The systems of internal advice.
These functions include finance, tax, treasury, control and the processes used by the Board to review the management information systems, legal, company effectiveness of those systems include: secretarial and internal audit: and Group clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate an internal audit function, which carries out a programme delegated authorities.
of audits covering the management of significant corporate risks and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of key internal controls: detailed risk registers, which describe the significant risks and control strategies in each area of the business and which are reviewed annually: 28 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Audit Committee During the year under review the auditors were used for tax approving the scope of the annual Group risk advice work and the Company foresees using the auditors management programme: for this advice in the future.
The provision of other services is considered on an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees reviewing the results of the risk identification process: paid to the auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, providing input on risks and internal controls into the are given on page 57. annual Board strategy discussions: Statement of Directors responsibilities reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable considering reports from internal and external audit on United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting the system of internal control and any material control Standards as adopted by the European Union.
weaknesses: The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position reviewing the internal audit and external audit work of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance plans: and and the cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that at the year end, before producing the Statement of period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Directors Responsibilities in the Annual Report and Accounts, required to: the Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports i select suitable accounting policies and then apply generated from the internal and external auditors on any them consistently: major problems that have occurred during the year.
ii present information, including accounting policies, in a Relations with shareholders manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Board places high importance on maintaining good understandable information: relationships with both institutional and private investors iii provide additional disclosures when compliance with the and ensures, through its investor relations programme, specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group to understand the impact of particular transactions, other developments.
Shareholders can access further information events and conditions on the entitys financial position and on the Group via the Companys website at www.
financial performance: and The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major iv state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any material departures disclosed and explained in the with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting with private investors at the Companys general meetings, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express the financial position of the Company and of the Group and views on the Companys business.
The views of shareholders enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply are reported to the Board as and when appropriate.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Accountability and audit Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statement of the Going concern Chairman on page 3 and the Business and Financial Review The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider on pages 12 to 23. to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to The Audit Committee reviews the independence and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming that, For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and in preparing the financial statements.
value for money on the other has been kept appropriately in balance.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure By order of the Board their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that where they provide non-audit services their independence Elaine Marriner is not threatened.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers Company Secretary that it is appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the 27 June 2007 Group tax advice and other accounting services, including those in connection with supporting and reporting on financial representations in public documentation.
29 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
