42 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 43 Directors Report Annual General Meeting Fixed assets The following special business will be transacted at the Annual Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets amounted to General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 30 July 2007 12.6m during the year.
Donations Allotment of shares and pre-emption rights Charitable donations of 34,000 2006: 28,000 were made There will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting a during the year.
No political contributions were made in either renewal of the directors general authority to allot shares up year.
to a maximum nominal amount the Section 80 Amount and the directors authority to issue shares for cash without Payment of creditors applying the statutory pre-emption rights up to a maximum The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in line with the terms nominal amount the Section 89 Amount.
The directors of payment agreed with each of them when contracting for confirm that they presently have no intention to issue more their products or services.
Trade creditors at 31 March 2007 than 7% of the issued ordinary share capital shown in the represent 65 days of purchases during the year 2006: 64 days latest published annual accounts by way of non pre-emptive for the Group and 45 for the Company 2006: 45 days.
issues for cash in any rolling three year period.
Substantial shareholdings They also confirm that, in the event of an issue of shares other As far as the directors are aware, no person had a beneficial than on a pre-emptive basis, the amount of the discount, if any, interest in 3% or more of the voting share capital at 21 May at which equity is issued for cash other than to shareholders, 2007, except for the following: will be limited to a maximum of 5% of the middle of the best bid and offer prices immediately prior to the announcement of Ordinary an issue or proposed issue.
Shares % Richard Harpin 10,987,609 16.9 Authority to purchase own shares AMVESCAP PLC 9,645,435 14.9 Approval is being sought for the Company to renew the Schroders plc 4,040,299 6.2 authority contained in the Articles of Association to purchase Standard Life Investments Ltd 3,528,403 5.4 its own ordinary shares.
The Board has no firm intention that Jeremy Middleton 3,058,113 4.7 the Company should make purchases of its own shares if Legal & General Group plc 2,460,437 3.8 the proposed authority becomes effective, but would like to be able to act quickly if circumstances arise in which such a Taxation status purchase would be desirable.
Purchases will only be made The Company is not a close company within the meaning of on the London Stock Exchange and only in circumstances the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. where the Board believes that they are in the best interests of the shareholders generally and would result in an increase in Employment policies earnings per share.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
It is the Groups policy that all persons should be considered for employment, training, career development and promotion Further detail on the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of General Meeting can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
physical ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
Auditors A resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and authorising the Board to fix their remuneration will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Report & Accounts 2007 AR 2007 back half 20. indd 42 25 5 07 18:48:15 42 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 43 Directors Report Homeserve applies employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and which ensure entry into and progression within the Company are determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
Homeserves training and development policies make it clear that it will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the time they are employed by the Group are able to continue to perform their duties.
Employee involvement Homeserve attaches considerable importance to ensuring that all its employees are provided with information concerning them as employees, particularly the economic and financial factors affecting its performance and the market in which it operates.
Involvement of employees in the Groups performance is also encouraged by the availability of performance-related bonuses as well as share option schemes, which are described in more detail elsewhere in this report.
Internal circulars and newsletters are issued on a regular basis and consultation between management and staff is an ongoing process.
Employees are consulted on issues directly affecting them wherever practicable.
Further details of Homeserves policies and practices relating to employee involvement may be found on pages 32 of the Corporate & Social Responsibility Report.
Events after the balance sheet date Other than in respect of the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Multimaster Limited on 30 April 2007 as detailed in note 32, there have been no events after the balance sheet date.
By Order of the Board Emma Thomas Company Secretary 21 May 2007 Report & Accounts 2007 AR 2007 back half 20. indd 43 25 5 07 18:48:16 44 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 45 Corporate Governance Homeserve complied throughout the year with the provisions The Board has a Schedule of Matters specically reserved to it set out in the Combined Code published by the UK Financial for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except for the the various committees to which it has delegated its authority balance of the Board between executive and non-executive in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include the directors between 5 March 2007 and 31 March 2007.
As we recommendation or approval of dividends, the approval of final announced today, Andrew Sibbald will be joining the Board as and interim financial statements, major financial commitments, an independent non-executive director on 1 June 2007. the acquisitions of significant companies or businesses, appointments to the Board and its committees, the Companys The manner in which the Company applies the principles future strategy and its internal controls.
It also provides that of good governance contained in the Code is described in the Board receive regular updates from the chairmen of its the appropriate parts of this Report and Accounts.
application by the Company of the Codes principles relating to remuneration matters at pages 49 to 64 should be read in During the year the Board was led by Brian Whitty, the conjunction with the statement below.
A review of the Groups Executive Chairman, who also served as a member of the position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement, Boards Nomination Committee.
the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review on pages 4 to 29.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly dened in a written specication agreed by the Board and which makes clear the The Board division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman The Board of directors leads and controls the Company by and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of holding at least eight meetings a year at which its current and the Board, eective communication between executive and forecast performance is reviewed and monitored.
Regular non-executive directors and the general progress and long reports on monthly performance and other matters of term development of the Group.
His executive responsibilities importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied include major strategic acquisitions, relations with shareholders in a timely manner with the information necessary to make and those relating to property, legal and governance matters.
In addition, the Board holds regular meetings, also attended by senior operational management, The Board has established a formal procedure for directors to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long term wishing to seek independent legal and other professional strategic focus and management development strategy.
advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice Regular formal and informal presentations are given and and services of the Company Secretary.
meetings held in order to apprise directors of issues of importance aecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the The day-to-day running of Homeserves business is delegated Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than to an Executive Board, also led by Brian Whitty, and which Walsall, in order to aord the Board, particularly the nonincludes Richard Harpin, Chief Executive, Ian Carlisle, Chief executive directors, with the opportunity to meet with local Executive of the Emergency Services division, Jon Florsheim, management.
Chief Executive of Homeserve GB from his appointment on 5 March 2007, Andrew Belk, Group Finance Director until his In accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Association resignation on 30 March 2007, and Jonathan Simpson-Dent, and with the Code, each director is subject to election by Chief Financial Ocer from his appointment on 30 March the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 2007.
Other members of the Executive Board, together with immediately following his appointment and is subject to reautobiographical details, are listed on page 39. election at least every three years thereafter.
Report & Accounts 2007 AR 2007 back half 20. indd 44 25 5 07 18:48:16 44 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 45 Corporate Governance Richard Harpin, the Chief Executive, is responsible for leading Committees business development, operational issues and marketing.
He is The Board operates a number of committees to which it has also responsible for all operational public relations and tactical delegated certain specic responsibilities and each of which acquisitions.
has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The terms During the year, three independent non-executive directors of Reference of each of the Boards committees can be viewed with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, on the Companys website.
provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
John Maxwell served as the Nomination Committee Companys independent senior non-executive director.
In The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations anticipation of the appointment of Jon Florsheim to the to the Board on the appointment of directors, is chaired by Board in March 2007, the Board recognised that the number Brian Whitty and Barry Gibson and John Maxwell, independent of executive directors would outnumber the number non-executive directors both served on the committee of independent non-executive directors.
Accordingly, it throughout the year.
Until his resignation from the Board on commenced a search for an additional independent non- 1 January 2007, Justin Jewitt also served as a member of the executive director and on 21 May 2007 announced the Nomination Committee and Ian Chippendale was appointed as forthcoming appointment of Andrew Sibbald to the Board a member on the same date.
Other members of the Board may from 1 June 2007.
In addition, the Board is currently in the be invited, but are not entitled, to attend its meetings.
The process of selecting a further independent non-executive Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers director.
as it considers necessary and, during the year, met informally on several occaisions to consider the possible appointment The Board actively encourages all directors to deepen their of further non-executive directors, including Ian Chippendale, knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear and Andrew Sibbald, and of executive directors, including Jon understanding of the Group and the environment in which it Florsheim and Jonathan Simpson-Dent.
operates: and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of directors.
Newly appointed Board members are Its duties include the review of the size, structure and required to undergo an induction programme, which includes composition required of the Board, and succession planning obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various for directors and other senior managers.
During the year, these operations, and have the opportunity to receive formal training.
duties were undertaken by the Board itself.
During the year, the non-executive directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and have visited several of the operating businesses.
Further training for directors is available, oered and provided as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a formal process for reviewing its own eectiveness and that of its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the nonexecutive directors were held without the executive directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
The evaluation process, which was facilitated by external advisers, was completed in April 2006, comprising one-on-one meetings to discuss the existing and future needs of the Board, its composition and the skills of its members.
The results of the process were reviewed by the whole Board in June and October 2006 and a further review is planned to take place in September 2007.
Report & Accounts 2007 AR 2007 back half 20. indd 45 25 5 07 18:48:16 46 Homeserve plc Homeserve plc 47 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by John Maxwell, a chartered The Committee is chaired by Barry Gibson, who became accountant and the senior independent non-executive director.
Justin Jewitt acted as Chairman It comprises only independent non-executive directors.
during the year until his resignation on 1 January 2007.
It Barry Gibson and Ian Chippendale are also members of the comprises only independent non-executive directors, Ian Committee, as was Justin Jewitt until 1 January 2007.
Chippendale and John Maxwell being its other members.
The Committee meets regularly to review the preliminary The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include and interim results before they are presented to the Board, determining the Groups overall remuneration strategy and to receive reports from the Companys internal and external the remuneration packages of the executive directors and auditors and to make recommendations to the Board other members of the Executive Board, after having consulted on accounting policies.
Its primary duties include the with the Chairman and Chief Executive and having received monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance with and the professional advice from remuneration consultants.
The eectiveness of the Companys accounting and internal control Committee is also responsible for approving the grant and systems.
The Committees duties also include agreeing audit exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements.
In strategy, monitoring the scope and results of the Companys determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to annual audit and the independence and objectivity of its obtain such professional advice as it sees t, and regularly auditors.
The external auditors and the Chief Financial Ocer monitors both the policies of comparator companies and are invited but are not entitled to attend all meetings.
current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided are sucient to attract and retain executive directors The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the necessary quality.
of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
The external and internal The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any for reviewing and assessing its own eectiveness: the results matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the of the review were considered by the Board as a whole in June executive directors.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for the for reviewing and assessing its own eectiveness and that Companys Board.
of the external audit process: the results of the review were considered by the Board as a whole in June 2006.
Short biographies of each of the directors, including their membership of the Boards committees outlined above, may be found on pages 38 and 39.
