Corporate Governance Report Statement of Compliance directors are Mark Robson, who joined Appropriate induction as described the Board as Chief Financial Officer in below in the section on the Nominations The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and April 2005 and Gerard Hughes who was Committee and training is available to appointed Group Commercial Director in all directors.
Biographical details of the supports the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that March 2007.
Will Samuels other directors are given on page 21. commitments include his positions as Vice was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council The Combined Code Chairman of Lazard Bros & Co Ltd.
The Board holds regular meetings and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape Plc and receives accurate and timely information.
Throughout the year ended 29 December 2007, the Company has non-executive director of Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and Ecclesiastical The Board conducts its procedures complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the Insurance Group plc.
Michael Wemms holds for evaluation of its performance, the position of Senior Independent Director.
including its Committees, through main and supporting principles.
Further explanations of how the principles and a continuing programme that extends The only change to the composition over more than one period.
Given the supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors of the Board was the appointment of review in 2006 of the effectiveness of Gerard Hughes as Commercial Director the Committees of the Board and the Remuneration Report.
There was no change to the subsequent appointments of Angus composition of the Board Committees.
Cockburn and Michael Wemms as Organisational structure The Board reviews as part of its Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration The Board has identified the following Committees respectively, the programme continuing evaluation procedures the appropriateness of its organisational non-executive directors as independent for 2007 was scheduled to concentrate in accordance with the definition on the performance of individual structure.
The structure is required for planning, executing, controlling and of independence contained in the directors and of the Board as a whole.
Combined Code: This evaluation has been conducted monitoring the business in a manner, which seeks to achieve the Groups in accordance with the Code and Will Samuel Chairman feedback provided to individuals.
objectives taking into account the interests of all stakeholders.
Angus Cockburn Ian Smith There is a procedure for all directors The primary purpose of the Board is to Peter Wallis to take independent external advice, Michael Wemms at the Companys expense, in the ensure that the needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are satisfied.
The course of their duties via the Company Non-executive directors are appointed Secretary.
Working with the Chairman, Board seeks to achieve this through the development of a balanced for an initial term of three years, subject the Company Secretary is responsible to reappointment by shareholders.
Their for ensuring that board procedures are strategy which serves the interests of the stakeholders.
The Boards letters of appointment are available for followed and all directors have access inspection at the Annual General Meeting to her advice and services.
role is then to set the context for the businesses, to create suitable structures and on request.
A Committee appointed by the Board comprising the Chairman The Board has established Audit, for implementing the strategies and to ensure the coordination, alignment and Chief Executive Officer agrees the Remuneration and Nominations fees of the non-executive directors.
The Committees, each with defined terms and motivation of resource.
The Board then assesses the results of these Remuneration Committee determines the of reference.
The terms of reference of actions and sets revised priorities where Chairmans fee.
All directors are subject these committees are reviewed regularly.
appropriate to service the needs of the to reappointment by shareholders at the Membership of these Committees, which is stakeholders.
The Board reviews annually first annual general meeting following their reviewed annually, is shown on page 102. the schedule of matters reserved for its appointment by the Board and thereafter The terms of reference for each Committee decision.
During 2007, the Board held 7 at intervals of no more than every three are available on request from the Company formal Board meetings and a number of years under the articles of association.
Secretary and on the Companys website other meetings and teleconferences to www.
review progress on issues affecting the The separate roles of the Chairman Company during the year.
and Chief Executive Officer are clearly Audit committee defined.
The Chairman is responsible The Audit Committee currently consists The Board currently comprises the for leadership of the Board, ensuring of four independent non-executive non-executive Chairman, Will Samuel, its effectiveness in all aspects of its role directors and has been chaired since three executive directors and four and setting its agenda, and the Chief 6 March 2007 by Angus Cockburn, independent non-executive directors.
Executive Officer for the satisfactory Group Finance Director of Aggreko plc The Chief Executive Officer is Matthew execution of the strategy agreed by and a qualified accountant.
The Audit Ingle who has held that position since the Board working with his fellow Committee assists the Board in ensuring October 2005.
The other executive executive directors and other executives.
that the Groups financial systems GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 34 26 3 08 10:39:48 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 provide accurate and up-to-date Michael Wemms.
Its composition the Companys external advisers and the during the year was as described in provision of introductory materials.
information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial the Remuneration Report on page 24.
It is responsible for advising on the Relations with shareholders statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
remuneration packages needed to The Company considers its attract, retain and motivate executive relationship with both institutional It also assists the Board in ensuring that directors of the required quality.
The and private investors to be important Remuneration Committee is responsible and readily enters into dialogue with appropriate accounting policies, internal controls and compliance procedures are for developing strategy and policy on investors.
The Company has consulted executive remuneration, deciding on extensively with its principal shareholders in place and monitors the management of risk and the effectiveness of the the remuneration packages of individual in the course of 2007 in relation to the executive directors and reviewing the ongoing progress of the Company and internal audit function by reviewing its work schedule and reports.
In particular, remuneration policy for certain other also in relation to identifying appropriate senior executives who are not on the executive incentive arrangements to it undertakes regular reviews of internal controls to enable reports to be made Board.
The Committee is regularly reflect the changing business profile of assisted in its work by its appointed firm the Company.
The Senior Independent to the Board to enable it to review the effectiveness of the groups system of of professional advisers, the Chairman, Director makes himself available for the Chief Executive Officer, the Company meetings with shareholders as required.
internal controls, as described below.
Secretary and the Companys internal An investor relations website, Human Resources function.
com provides an ideal During the year, as well as fulfilling the duties described above, the Committee on the Committees work are contained in channel for communication with existing the Directors Remuneration report.
The Annual commissioned third party specialists to undertake a review of the effectiveness report includes details on remuneration General Meeting provides an opportunity policy, terms of appointment, and the for shareholders to put their questions of the internal audit function and report upon their findings.
The report verified that remuneration of executive directors.
the internal audit function was effective in providing the necessary assurances to the All executive directors notice and The Board receives regular reports contract periods do not exceed one year.
on relations with the major shareholders Audit Committee.
Recommendations in the report have been reviewed and, where Executive directors service contracts and developments and changes in their also provide that compensation on shareholdings.
At the Annual General appropriate, they are in the process of being implemented.
termination is determined by reference Meeting the Company proposes separate to a notice period of 12 months.
resolutions on each substantially separate The Committee also reviews the issue and the numbers of proxy votes During 2007, the Committee met cast for and against each resolution are effectiveness and independence of the Companys auditors, Deloitte & five times.
made available to shareholders when voting has been completed.
The notice Touche LLP and is responsible for approving their remuneration and terms nominations committee of the Annual General Meeting is sent to The Nominations Committee consists of shareholders at least twenty working of engagement.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that a the Chairman of the Board, who chairs days before the meeting.
the Committee and the independent nonproposal be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that executive directors.
The committee keeps Risk and internal control under review the composition of the The Board is responsible for the Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-appointed.
Board, including succession, and makes Groups system of internal control and recommendations to the Board for all for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the Details of Deloitte & Touche LLPs fees for audit and non-audit work during new appointments and re-appointments.
role of management is to implement 2007 are on page 52.
The Committee Board policies on risk and control.
Such a reviews the appropriateness of all nonDuring 2007, the Nominations system is, however, designed to manage audit work with a view to ensuring that Committee met once to review the rather than eliminate the risks of failure to it is necessary and not inconsistent with composition of the Board and formally achieve business objectives.
In pursuing auditor objectivity and independence.
promote Gerard Hughes to the position these objectives, internal controls can only of Group Commercial Director.
provide reasonable assurance against The Audit Committee met three times misstatement or loss.
The Groups induction programme for Code recommends that the Board at newly appointed directors concentrates least annually reviews the effectiveness Remuneration committee on familiarisation with the businesses of of the Groups system of internal controls, The Remuneration Committee currently the Group, including meeting directors including financial, operational and 35 consists of four independent nonand executives individually, visiting compliance controls and risk management.
executive directors and is chaired by operational locations, discussions with Subsequently the Institute of Chartered GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 35 26 3 08 10:39:48 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business Corporate Governance Report continued Accountants in England and Wales and impact.
The key controls of financial transactions, and to limit to manage the risks to the desired exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
produced guidance on the wider aspects of internal control in September 1999 level are identified Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties in key which was further revised in October 2006 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board has a local database of risks and controls areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews is maintained within each operating conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls through entity and central service function, which the Audit Committee meets regularly is consolidated into a central register and its responsibilities are set out the processes described below.
During the course of its review of the system to become the key risk register for the above.
It receives reports from the Group.
The Group Risk department Internal Audit function on the results of of internal control, the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings facilitates the identification of these risks work carried out under a semi-annually and provides an independent appraisal agreed audit programme.
The Audit or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant, therefore a confirmation of the interpretation of the scoring Committee has independent access mechanism, to ensure that the key risks to the internal and external auditors in respect of necesssary actions has not been considered appropriate.
are brought forward to the executive team.
The Risk Committee then reviews Internal Audit facilitates a process i.
Risk the key risks to assess the effectiveness whereby operating entities provide of the risk management strategies certified statements of compliance Following the introduction of the Turnbull Guidance, the Board enhanced with internal financial controls, which the senior executive team within each are supported by the operation of key the Groups existing risk management procedures.
The Board can confirm that, business entity and central service controls during the period area are responsible for the ongoing for the 2007 financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report review of their functions risk register.
Going concern Regular reporting on internal and After making enquiries, the directors and financial statements, there has been an ongoing process for identifying, external changes that affect the risks have formed a judgement, at the time or their importance to the business, of approving the financial statements, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that is reviewed and any risk occurrences, are reported that there is a reasonable expectation upwards through their register, to that the Group has adequate resources regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Commercial the Group executive team to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason Director chairs the executive team with regards to Group Risk which is key generic risks and their management the Board believes it is appropriate to are regularly reported to and discussed continue to adopt the going concern basis comprised of senior executives from the key operating entities and service areas at the Executive Committee in preparing the financial statements.
It is the responsibility of the executive team to review the a review of the risk process and key Compliance with the Combined Code risks arising, are formally discussed The Group has complied with the effectiveness of the risk management process and internal controls, on behalf by the Group Board every 6 months requirements of the Financial Services Authority relating to the provisions of the of the Board.
The executive team regularly reports to the Board on how ii.
Internal Control Combined Code and with the Turnbull risks are being managed.
In addition, The Group has an established framework Guidance throughout the period ended there is a mechanism in place to report of internal controls, which includes the on 29 December 2007 and up to the significant control breakdowns or risk following key elements: date of approval of the annual report occurrences to the Executive Committee.
members of the Board have An ongoing process for the effective responsibility for monitoring the Statement of directors responsibilities management of risk has been defined conduct and operations of individual The directors are responsible for by the Board and is operated in the businesses within the Group.
The preparing the Annual Report, Directors following stages: Group reviews the strategies of Remuneration Report and the financial the individual businesses and the statements in accordance with applicable each operating entity and central executive management of each law and regulations.
function identifies key risks through business is accountable for their the adoption of both a bottom-up conduct and performance within Company law requires the directors and top-down process.
These key the agreed strategies to prepare financial statements for each risks are regularly reviewed by each financial year.
The directors are required executive team.
The key risks to the Group and its subsidiaries operate by the IAS Regulation to prepare the each business areas objectives are control procedures designed to ensure Group financial statements under IFRSs identified and scored for probability complete and accurate accounting IFRSs as adopted by the European GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
The Group financial statements The directors have elected to prepare preparation of the directors report and the directors remuneration report which are also required by law to be properly the parent company financial statements prepared in accordance with the in accordance with United Kingdom comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of the IAS Regulation.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards The directors are responsible for the and applicable law.
The parent company International Accounting Standard 1 financial statements are required by law maintenance and integrity of the corporate to give a true and fair view of the state and financial information included on requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the of affairs of the Company.
In preparing the Companys website.
Legislation these financial statements, the directors in the United Kingdom governing the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events select suitable accounting policies other jurisdictions.
and then apply them consistently and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for Directors indemnity and insurance make judgments and estimates that In accordance with the Articles of assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting are reasonable and prudent Association, the Company has provided indemnities to the directors to the extent Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial state whether applicable UK permitted by the Companies Acts in Accounting Standards have been respect of liabilities incurred as a result statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by followed, subject to any material of their office and the Company has taken departures disclosed and explained out an insurance policy in respect of compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: in the financial statements those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified.
Neither the indemnity properly select and apply prepare the financial statements on nor insurance provides cover in the event the going concern basis unless it is that the director is proved to have acted accounting policies inappropriate to presume that the dishonestly or fraudulently.
Company will continue in business present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that Attendance at meetings The directors are responsible for keeping The following table shows the number provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information proper accounting records that disclose of meetings individual directors could with reasonable accuracy at any time have attended taking account of provide additional disclosures the financial position of the Company eligibility, appointment and retirement and enable them to ensure that the parent dates during the year and their actual when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to company financial statements comply with attendance.
For the Committees, only the Companies Act 1985.
They are also the attendance of members of that enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events responsible for safeguarding the assets committee is shown, although other of the Company, for taking reasonable directors, where appropriate, have and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance steps for the prevention and detection of often also attended at the invitation fraud and other irregularities and for the of the Chairman of the Committee: Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee nominations Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance Current directors Will Samuel 7 7 1 1 Angus Cockburn 7 7 3 3 5 4 1 1 Gerard Hughes 5 5 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Ian Smith 7 6 3 3 5 3 1 Peter Wallis 7 7 3 2 5 4 1 Michael Wemms 7 6 3 2 5 5 1 1 Former directors Tony fide Nunzio 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 37 Lesley Knox 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 37 26 3 08 10:39:49 THe financial sTaTemenTs HOW we govern the business
