CORPORATE GOVERNANCE corporate governance Statement of compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended We have a clear strategy that is relevant and appropriate 31 December 2007 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the revised Combined Code for a successful engineering solutions business in issued in June 2006 and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate the 21st century and we continue to pursue it vigorously.
governance and in its remuneration report on pages 42 to 58.
We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading The Board is able to report compliance with the Combined Code throughout 2007. customers in niche markets which are themselves growing.
The Board Adding value to such customers and improving their At the end of the year the Board comprised nine directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: four independent nonperformance is the route to sustainable profits growth executive directors: the Finance Director and two other executive directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board for our shareholders.
We operate in markets where we during the year are noted in the Directors' Report.
already hold or can achieve a market leadership position The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the and where we can clearly differentiate from our exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Group's executive management.
The Chairman, Mr N B M Askew, was competitors with end-user insight and the application also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment in May 2005.
Mr T M Gateley is the senior non-executive of innovative technology.
Key account management and director.
The independent non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of project management are important disciplines for the skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details of the current directors are effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading shown on pages 34 and 35.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for election at the next annual general customers.
We also provide aftermarket support in the meeting following their appointment.
In addition, one third of the Board retire by rotation at each annual general meeting f and each direct orm of service and spares t or stands for re-election at least once e o our customers installed very three years.
The Board provides leadership, direction and control for the Group and oversees business and management performance.
The Board has an established list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and Our five business platforms share this common philosophy.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major investment decisions and While each business platform is predominantly an material changes in the composition of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of autonomous business, we operate in two main areas.
the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on The Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Senior executives from around the Group are invited by the Board business platforms serve Fluid Controls markets, where to attend certain meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
our customers are plant operators and original equipment There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in a written manufacturers.
statement approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and running of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses running the business and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
The operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers executive team during the year comprised: the Chief Executive, Mr M J Lamb, Finance Director, Mr D M Hurt, and two are brand owners and retailers.
operational executives, Mr D C Nicholas, responsible for Fluid Controls, and from 1 February 2007 Mr R M Twite until Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by all 31 January 2007 Mr W R Whitney, responsible for Retail Dispense.
the senior management in IMI and embedded throughout Non-executive directors receive training and guidance to become familiar with the businesses and there is regular our businesses.
contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Combined Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The Board met on ten occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy days, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the main quarterly meetings held during their tenure save that Mr D C Nicholas missed one meeting.
Apart from Mr M J Lamb all directors missed some other meetings, but all attended at least seven of the meetings held in the year.
Pursuant to the Combined Code, and in accordance with best practice, the non-executive directors met as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year and the senior independent director, Mr T M Gateley, convened one such meeting in the absence of the Chairman.
42 Corporate governance Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
Summaries and the full terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee appear on the Company website www.
The Audit Committee was chaired by Mr T M Gateley.
All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Mr T M Gateley is a qualified chartered accountant and has significant relevant financial experience.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies and significant issues of judgement, internal financial controls, the proposed external audit approach and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the guidance for audit committees in the Smith Report and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee.
The policy requires committee approval for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 100,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as valuations work.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the 'IMI Assurance Department', and reviews the operation of the Group whistleblowing policy and procedure.
During the year the committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
The committee regularly calls upon the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel, including the Controller and the Group Assurance Manager, to attend for parts of its meetings.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr K S Beeston.
Mr N B M Askew, Ms A M Frew, Mr T M Gateley and Mr L Browne were members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
The committee's main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benefits.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management.
The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance except that Mr L Browne and Ms A Frew missed one meeting.
External consultants were engaged by the committee to provide advice and the Chief Executive and Finance Director attended its meetings when required.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work and more details are given in the Remuneration Report.
The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman, Mr N B M Askew, who chaired the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
During the year the committee reviewed the Board composition and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees.
External consultants were engaged by the committee in relation to the search for successor non-executives and worked to an agreed brief from the committee defining the core competencies and profile for the roles.
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee considered that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The committee met on three occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
The committee played a central role in the selection of a new executive director to fill a vacancy arising from a retirement in early 2007.
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors.
It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
It also acts as the Risk Committee of the Board.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
IMI plc Annual Report 2007 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE corporate governance Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been in operation for several years.
It is overseen and kept up to date We have a clear strategy that is relevant and appropriate by the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
During and after induction directors for a successful engineering solutions business in are encouraged to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
the 21st century and we continue to pursue it vigorously.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year.
customers in niche markets which are themselves growing.
An evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors, including the Chairman, was carried out and Adding value to such customers and improving their facilitated by independent consultants.
This included interviews and appropriate follow up discussions.
In addition, the performance is the route to sustainable profits growth non-executive directors met with the senior independent non-executive director regarding the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman met individually with each of the non-executive directors to canvass their views.
The Board for our shareholders.
We operate in markets where we received the findings of the evaluation in November 2007 and agreed that certain refinements to the agenda and papers already hold or can achieve a market leadership position for its meetings would be useful.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that and where we can clearly differentiate from our each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution and performance of individual directors standing competitors with end-user insight and the application for election or re-election is commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting issued to shareholders with this of innovative technology.
Key account management and annual report.
project management are important disciplines for the Investor relations effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with cust shareholders omers.
W, particularly priv e also provide aft atermark e invest et support in the ors.
The 2007 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged form of service and spares to our customers installed debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2007 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting Our five business platforms share this common philosophy.
was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2006.
A separate resolution for While each business platform is predominantly an the approval of the remuneration report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2007 annual general meeting was autonomous business, we operate in two main areas.
despatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each The Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Companys website.
business platforms serve Fluid Controls markets, where In addition to the annual report, the Company publishes an interim report to shareholders and issues trading updates our cust around the midomers are plant operat year and in December ors and original equipment.
From 2008 the Company will issue interim management statements as required by companies legislation in May and November of each year.
The Company has its own website www.
includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, trading The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses updates, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Company has arranged a operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with JPMorgan Cazenove details are shown on page 112. are brand owners and retailers.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by all Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The the senior management in IMI and embedded throughout Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations and report thereon to the Board our businesses.
In addition, financial analysts notes are circulated to the Board and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent non-executive director and other non-executives will meet with major shareholders upon request and otherwise if any of them considers appropriate.
During the year the Chairman met with one of the Company's major investors at its request.
Corporate social responsibility The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and has established corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
Through the Groups risk assessment processes key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
More information on corporate policies and social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the Company website www.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the relevant guidance issued in September 1999 and revised in October 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
44 Corporate governance Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control.
It also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit.
The committee also reviews the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Assurance Department.
Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are considered by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how those risks are managed.
Through this process major business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to control such risks.
The Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules and policies regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
All operating units prepare forward plans annually which make projections for a period of three years.
These plans are reviewed in detail by executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a central internal audit function, IMI Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Assurance Department and co-ordinated with the divisional financial management review processes and external audit.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel in conjunction with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee or the Board, as appropriate, according to their materiality.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, ethical trading, taxation, insurance, pensions, legal and regulatory compliance.
Compliance reports are made to the Board and the Audit Committee, as appropriate, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and whenever weakness in the internal control system is identified appropriate remedial action is taken.
During the year it became apparent that improper payments had been made within IMI's Severe Service business.
IMI had established policies and controls to prevent such payments, which were circumvented through collusion by a group of employees.
New anti-corruption controls and compliance arrangements were put in place within Severe Service and employee changes were made in response to the discovery of these improper payments currently under investigation.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2007 and up to the date of this Annual Report, including the changes to personnel and compliance procedures within Severe Service.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 5 March 2008 IMI plc Annual Report 2007 45
