Corporate governance statement The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions: Peter Levine is Executive Chairman of the Company.
Prior to 9 May 2007, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer but he stepped down as Chief Executive Officer upon the Companys admission to the main list.
He is also the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board believes that in view of his knowledge of the Group's business and his expertise in the industry in which the Group operates, it is in the best interests of the Company that Peter Levine continues in these roles.
Prior to the appointment of Rob Shepherd, neither the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee nor the Nominations Committee comprised three independent Non-executive Directors because the Company had only two independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following Rob Shepherds appointment the Company now complies with the code.
Excluding the Chairman, half of the Board should comprise Non-executive Directors.
Currently, excluding the Chairman, the Board comprises four executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Accordingly, the Company is not in compliance with the Combined Code in that it does not have an equal number of Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Board is proposing to appoint a further Non-Executive Director to the Board in due course.
The Board of Directors The Board of Directors, whose names and biographical details are set out above, currently comprises an Executive Chairman, four other Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly during the course of the year to review trading performance and budgets, funding, to set and monitor strategy, examine acquisition opportunities and report to shareholders.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions.
The Board held six scheduled board meetings during the year with 100% attendance from Board members in office at the time of each Board meeting.
The Combined Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its independent Non-executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
Pierre Godec is the Board's existing Senior Independent Director.
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee.
Each committee and each Director has the authority to seek independent professional advice where necessary to discharge their respective duties in each case at the Company's expense.
These committees deal with the following specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors, Pierre Godec, its chairman, Kenneth Forrest and Rob Shepherd.
The Audit Committee is responsible for a wide range of financial matters including reviewing the annual financial statements, and considering the scope of the Companys annual external audit.
It met twice during 2007 and both meetings were attended by all members.
It monitors the controls that are in place to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee also oversees the relationship with the external auditor, reviews the scope and results of audits and provides a forum for reporting by the Group's auditors.
The Committee also focuses on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules and ensures that effective systems of internal control and risk management are maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the half-yearly reports nevertheless remains with the Board.
The Chairman and other Executive Directors attend meetings of the Audit Committee through invitation.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Non-executive Directors, Pierre Godec, its chairman, Kenneth Forrest and Rob Shepherd.
The Committee met three times during 2007 and all meetings were attended by all members.
The Committee considers remuneration policy and the employment terms, share option grants and remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee's role is advisory in nature and makes recommendations to the Board on the overall remuneration packages for Executive Directors in order to attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving the Group's objectives.
The Committee also reviews proposals for the introduction of share plans and other incentive plans, makes recommendations for the grant of awards under such plans as well as advising on the terms of employment of the Executive Directors.
None of the Directors participates in any discussion or votes on any proposal relating to his own remuneration.
The Board's policy is to remunerate the Group's senior executives fairly and in such manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the other Executive Directors outside the framework of the Remuneration Committee.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Levine and its other members are Kenneth Forrest and Pierre Godec.
During 2007, it met twice and all meetings were attended by all Committee members.
Specific consideration was given to the appointment of a new Non-executive Director.
The Nomination Committee considers the structure, size and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors, reviews succession plans for the Directors and makes recommendations to the Board on membership of the Board, its committees and other matters within its remit.
Relationship with shareholders The Board remains fully committed to maintaining regular communication with its shareholders.
Information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and the Interim Report which are sent to all shareholders.
There is regular communication with major institutional shareholders and meetings are offered throughout the year.
Imperial Energy welcomes all communication from shareholders and potential investors and also has its own website www.
com which contains a wide range of information including a dedicated investor information section.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information and to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
By their nature such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Group will be protected against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has put in place formally defined lines of responsibility and delegations of authority and has delegated to executive management the implementation of material internal control systems.
Documented policies and procedures are in place for key systems and processes and the authorisation of the Directors is required for all key decisions.
A comprehensive budgeting process is in place and the annual budget is approved by the Board.
Performance against budget is monitored and reported to the Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a regular basis.
Revised forecasts for the year and longer term financial projections are regularly produced throughout the year.
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the Company and the Group and developing appropriate policies to manage those risks.
The risk management approach is used to focus attention on the Groups most significant areas of risk and to determine key control objectives on a continuous basis throughout the year.
The Board will continue to review and report on the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Group currently does not have an internal audit function as the Directors consider this to be inappropriate given the size of the Group.
However this situation will be reviewed by the Board from time to time.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements, including a Directors Report in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS both for the Group, as required, and for the Company, by election.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements for each financial year fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group.
The Directors are required faithfully to represent the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses in accordance with the relevant framework set out by the IAS Board.
The Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable the user to understand fully the impacts on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
