Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors the Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions and Compliance Throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003, with the exception of Code provision A.
This provision specifies that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
This non compliance, from 2 January 2007, resulted from the Boards decision to retain Mr A G L Alexander on the Board to ensure continuity at senior Board level during the Chairmans early tenure and the resignation of Mr C R Day as a consequence of his overall business commitments.
As planned the Board regained compliance on 1 July 2007 following the appointment of two additional independent Non-Executive Directors, Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson.
Full details relating to the structure of the Board are given on page 38.
The Code was further revised in 2006 the 2006 Code.
As the Company has adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early it was technically in breach of the 2003 Code provision B.
2.1 as, since his appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier has remained a member of the Remuneration Committee as permitted under the 2006 Code.
As Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC, the Group is also required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the requirements of section 404.
The Group has, however, taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands during its first year since acquisition.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and this Report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, have been and continue to be applied in practice within the Group.
During the course of the financial year the Board and its Audit Committee have continued to keep under review the Groups entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place across the Group.
Throughout the Group, formal procedures, including well established and embedded internal controls, have been and continue to be maintained.
Such procedures, together with continued regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant areas of risk to achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Any weaknesses identified have a plan of remedial action, progress against which is regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
During the course of the year business reviews of the Groups operations and reviews performed in conformance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been performed as part of the Group Compliance Functions programme of activity.
This has highlighted a small number of controls requiring minor remediation work which is currently being completed.
From reports to the Group Compliance Function by the business operations of any potential instances of fraud or accounting irregularity that may have occurred during the financial year, the Audit Committee concluded that neither individually nor collectively did they have a material impact on the results or performance of the Group for the financial year.
Update on Ongoing Enquiries Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group.
In the course of 2005, parts of the investigations into certain of the individuals were terminated on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities and settlement was made of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities being investigated at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group.
In 2006 and 2007, investigations against some of the other individuals were terminated for lack of evidence.
Charges relating to smuggling have been brought in connection with one of the investigations against 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.
Charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act have been brought against four other former Reemtsma employees in connection with a separate investigation.
In connection with some of these charges, the authorities have applied for financial penalties to be imposed on Reemtsma.
Such penalties could be imposed if the former employees who have been charged are ultimately found to have committed offences.
In those circumstances, the Imperial Tobacco Group would seek recovery of any losses under arrangements made on the acquisition of the business.
A Board Committee established in 2003 under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander remains in place to monitor the progress of the investigations and the Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
The German authorities investigations are based on alleged activities prior to the Groups acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the German authorities.
As previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial Tobacco Group and a number of other companies to the UK Office of Fair Trading the OFT in October 2003 in relation to an OFT investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
Further information was supplied in April 2005 but to date no substantive response to any of the information submitted has been received from the OFT.
The OFTs investigation is ongoing.
com 37 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued If the OFT were to decide that there are grounds for an infringement decision against the Imperial Tobacco Group, it would first issue a Statement of Objections setting out its preliminary findings and the evidential and legal basis for those findings.
Imperial Tobacco would then have an opportunity to respond to these preliminary findings.
If the OFT were subsequently to make an infringement finding, Imperial Tobacco Group would be able to appeal the OFTs infringement decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
The OFT has not as yet issued a Statement of Objections or announced an intention to do so and as such Imperial Tobacco Group is unable to predict the outcome of this investigation.
However, in the event that the OFT decides that a company has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a fine.
The amount of the fine is calculated by reference to the turnover of the infringing company.
The rules regarding the maximum amount of such a penalty changed on 1 May 2004.
Before that date, the maximum amount of a fine was 10 per cent of a companys UK turnover for up to three years.
In the three years to 30 September 2003 Imperial Tobacco Groups aggregate net UK turnover was 2,215 million.
Under the revised rules, a fine may not exceed 10 per cent of a companys worldwide turnover.
However, the OFTs guidelines state that where an infringement ended before 1 May 2004, the fine may not exceed the maximum penalty under the old rules.
In either case, the applicable turnover on which the amount of a fine is based expressly excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which Imperial Tobacco Group has been advised would also exclude duty.
In addition, if the OFT were to make an infringement finding, it could issue orders prohibiting that activity in the future, whilst the Company might face the prospect of damages actions from third parties.
Board and Board Committees Board Structure The Board of Directors, which met nine times during the year with two of the meetings having a duration of two days, currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Director not classified as independent for the purposes of the Code when determining the composition of the Board or its Committees, and five Executive Directors.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, Mr I J G Napier, and the Chief Executive, Mr G Davis, to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the whole Board with the Chief Executive, in conjunction with the Chief Executives Committee, responsible for managing the Group and implementing the strategy and policies which have been set by the Board.
Mr A G L Alexander is Vice Chairman and Dr P H Jungels is the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any concerns can be conveyed by shareholders.
Following the annual Board evaluation and consideration of all other relevant factors contained in the Code and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance rules, the Board concluded at its meeting in September 2007 that all Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question management objectively and robustly and at all times to have the best interests of the Group in mind and that, taking account of these factors, together with the other relevant factors contained in the Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance rules, all eight Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman remain independent for the purposes of the NYSE Corporate Governance rules and all seven Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman as required by the Code remain independent for the purposes of the Code.
However, recognising the general external focus under the Code on directors who have served in excess of nine years the Company has not, since September 2006, classified Mr A G L Alexander for the purposes of the Code as an independent Director when determining the composition of the Board and its Committees.
As announced previously, Mr A G L Alexander will remain on the Board until the Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Mr A G L Alexander is not a member of any of the Board Committees other than the Nominations Committee.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of those directors who have appointments on boards of companies outside the Group.
Where necessary, the Board ensures appropriate processes are in place to manage any possible conflict of interest.
The Directors biographies, appearing on pages 32 and 33, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and the wider Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with a range of business and financial experience which is vital to the management of an expanding international company.
The biographies also include details of any other major directorships.
Board Changes During the year the Nominations Committee again reviewed the composition and balance of the Board.
This review took into account not only the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience of Board members but also of the wider provisions of the Code and the results of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Following this review the Nominations Committee produced two role profiles for an external search consultancy to identify suitable nonexecutive director candidates with relevant strong financial and regulatory legal backgrounds.
Subsequently Messrs M D Williamson, currently the Chief Financial Officer of International Power PLC, and M H C Herlihy, formerly General Counsel of ICI PLC, joined the Board on 1 July 2007 as Non-Executive Directors, having been identified as meeting the relevant criteria.
The Nominations Committee also identified Mrs A J Cooper as a suitable candidate to join the Board as it continues to focus on the strategic development of the business.
38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance As announced last year, Mr I J G Napier succeeded Mr D C Bonham as Chairman on 2 January 2007.
Prior to this appointment a role profile of the competences, experience and time commitment required by any potential candidate for the position of Chairman was produced by the Nominations Committee.
It was determined by the Nominations Committee that Mr I J G Napiers skills and experience so closely matched this profile that it was unlikely that a more suitable candidate would be found by conducting an external search or undertaking open advertising.
During all discussions of the Chairmans succession, the Nominations Committee was chaired by Mr A G L Alexander and once Mr I J G Napier had been identified as a potential candidate he was excluded from all such discussions.
The Board accepted Mr C R Days resignation, as a consequence of his overall business commitments, with effect from 16 February 2007 and that of Dr F A Rogerson, for personal and private reasons, with effect from 27 June 2007.
As previously announced, Messrs D Cresswell and A G L Alexander have confirmed to the Board that they intend to retire on 31 December 2007 and 29 January 2008 respectively.
Mr I J G Napier met with a number of key shareholders during the year.
The opportunity also exists for major shareholders to meet with new and existing Directors.
In addition, Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders after the formal business of the Annual General Meeting AGM and Extraordinary General Meeting EGM had been completed.
Structure of the Board and Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors G Davis Member R Dyrbus Member G L Blashill Member A J Cooper Member D Cresswell Member Non-Executive Directors I J G Napier Chairman Member Chairman A G L Alexander Vice Chairman Member K M Burnett Member Member M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member P H Jungels Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member C F Knott Member Member Member Member S E Murray Member Member Member Member M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member Performance Evaluation During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally reviewed and evaluated its own performance together with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
The approach for these reviews was refreshed this year and they were conducted by way of detailed questionnaires, completed by the Directors, followed by one to one interviews between each Director and the external consultant.
Feedback on individual Directors was discussed with the Chairman and this in turn was followed by private feedback meetings between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
A report on the performance of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was made to the Board at its meetings in September and October 2007.
Dr P H Jungels, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, met with the Non-Executive Directors as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider the performance of the Chairman.
After also taking account of the views of the Executive Directors and the results of the Chairmans formal performance evaluation, Mr A G L Alexander held a private feedback meeting with the Chairman.
The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the Executive Directors in the discharge of their duties.
Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively and that, notwithstanding the continued changes in Board membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity.
No fundamental issues or training needs that require addressing were identified and the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute effectively to the Board and its Committees.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus, together with Ms S E Murray should stand for re-election and that Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson should stand for election at the 2008 AGM.
The key positive theme which emerged from this years evaluation was, notwithstanding the recent Board changes, the high level of cohesion between the Board members and the need to ensure the continuation of this cohesiveness in the future.
com 39 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The key theme as identified in the 2006 evaluation was the need to ensure the Board continues to maintain an appropriate balance between strategic matters and those relating to governance and the wider industry, and these were addressed during the year with the appointment of Mrs A J Cooper as Corporate Development Director and an increased focus on strategic matters at formal Board meetings, including a two day Board meeting focused solely on strategy.
The Board plans to continue to conduct evaluations on an annual basis and may employ alternative formats and approaches in future years.
Board Operations The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group and manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the schedule of matters reserved for its decision contained in the Groups Corporate Manual.
These include, inter-alia, responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements and corporate plans, the overall corporate governance framework, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, tax and risk management policies and appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
All Directors are equally accountable in law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed for the development of the business, resources and standards of conduct are critically reviewed using their independent judgement and experience.
This ensures that the Board acts in the best long term interests of all shareholders, takes account of the wider community of interests represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and that environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues are fully integrated into the Groups risk assessment processes.
During the year matters considered by the Board included the proposed acquisition of Altadis, the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands Inc, the Board changes detailed above, review of the strategy and operating results of the business, approval of annual and medium term plans, and review of Group funding arrangements.
Actual results of the Group were reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods.
This ensured that the Board was supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner and that at Board Meetings the Directors were properly briefed on issues arising.
All Board members receive reports from the chairmen of all Board Committees and receive copies of each Committees minutes.
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit of each Committee are considered below, together with a record of each Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year.
As part of the Groups policy of annual review, the terms of reference for each of these Committees were reviewed during the year and are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
They are also available from the Company Secretary.
The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Chief Executives Committee Over the financial year, the Chief Executives Committee, comprising the Executive Directors, the Regional Director Western Europe who, following appointment as Corporate Development Director, attended as an Executive Director from 1 July 2007, the Group Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary, met ten times to ensure appropriate control and management of day-to-day business matters.
Within the framework of the Chief Executives Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business control matters to the Chief Executive and the Chief Executives Committee, who are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
They have full power to act, subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the Groups policy guidelines.
As previously announced Mr G Aldridge will join the Chief Executives Committee as Manufacturing Director with effect from 1 January 2008.
Between formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the Chairman and chairmen of the Board Committees communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other members of the Chief Executives Committee.
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders Audit Remuneration Nominations Annual General Extraordinary Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting General Meeting Total number of meetings in 2007 9 4 5 3 1 1 Number of meetings attended in 2007 Executive Directors Mr G Davis 9 9 1 1 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 9 9 1 1 1 1 Mr G L Blashill 9 9 1 1 1 1 1 Mrs A J Cooper 1 1 0 1 Mr D Cresswell 9 9 1 1 0 1 2 Dr F A Rogerson 7 8 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 8 8 1 1 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 Mr D C Bonham 2 2 1 1 Mr A G L Alexander 9 9 3 3 1 1 0 1 Dr K M Burnett 8 9 3 3 1 1 0 1 4 Mr C R Day 1 3 1 2 0 1 0 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 1 1 1 1 1 1 Dr P H Jungels 8 8 4 4 4 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 Mr C F Knott 9 9 4 4 5 5 3 3 1 1 0 1 Ms S E Murray 9 9 4 4 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 Mrs A J Cooper, Mr M H C Herlihy and Mr M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
2 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment will terminate.
3 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007.
4 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Following the retirement of Mr D C Bonham, Mr I J G Napier stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee but in accordance with the 2006 Code remains a member of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on page 48.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
The Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and signed by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, outlines remuneration strategy and policy, details the Committees activities over the financial year and contains full details of Directors emoluments.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above.
com 41 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Membership The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets on an as required basis.
During the year the Committee met three times.
The members of the Committee during the year were: x Mr I J G Napier Chairman from 2 January 2007 : x Mr A G L Alexander: x Mr D C Bonham Chairman until retirement on 2 January 2007 : x Dr K M Burnett: x Mr C R Day resigned 16 February 2007 : x Mr M H C Herlihy appointed 1 July 2007 : x Dr P H Jungels: x Mr C F Knott: x Ms S E Murray: and x Mr M D Williamson appointed 1 July 2007. x Mr M R Phillips, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Responsibilities The Committees terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
The responsibilities of the Committee include the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the development of role specifications, the formulation of succession plans and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard to the appointment of Directors.
In the financial year the Committee, after taking into account the Board evaluation and succession plans, produced role profiles for two new Non-Executive Directors and following the identification of suitable candidates made a number of recommendations to the Board resulting in the appointments as detailed in the Board Changes section above.
Any Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Furthermore, it is the Companys practice that any Non-Executive Director, including the Chairman, having been in post for nine years or more is subject to annual re-election.
The performance of each Director is considered before recommending such election or re-election.
Induction and Training Detailed training and briefing are provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
Following her appointment, arrangements have been made for Mrs A J Cooper to attend a programme at Henley Management College focusing on the roles and responsibilities of a listed PLC board director.
Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamsons induction programmes included meetings with the Groups Auditors, external lawyers, meetings with key Group personnel and site visits.
These meetings included briefings on relevant corporate responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters, product stewardship, environmental management, social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial risk management.
Ongoing training is made available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
Regular briefings are also provided to Directors on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate governance developments.
During the year the Groups external lawyers briefed the Board on topical items of interest, including the implications of the Companies Act 2006.
Structured training on leadership is also made available to members of the Groups senior management team via the Imperial Leadership Programme.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received briefings from  and Hewitts Limited respectively to ensure they remain up to date with current regulations and developments.
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Audit Committee Membership The Audit Committee, which has determined that all its members are independent Non-Executive Directors, met four times during the year and members attendance is set out in the table on page 41.
The members of the Committee during the year were: x Mr M D Williamson chairman from 14 September 2007 : x Mr C R Day chairman until resigned from the Board 16 February 2007 : x Mr M H C Herlihy from 14 September 2007 : x Dr P H Jungels: x Mr C F Knott acting chairman 17 February 2007 to 13 September 2007 : x Ms S E Murray: and x Mr I J G Napier stepped down 2 January 2007 upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Messrs M D Williamson and C F Knott are qualified accountants and, therefore, are appropriately qualified to discharge the responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The remaining members of the Committee supply a supporting mix of skills and backgrounds.
Following the resignation of Mr C R Day, Mr C F Knott acted as chairman of the Committee between 17 February 2007 and 13 September 2007.
Mr M R Phillips, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Responsibilities The Committees terms of reference cover the matters recommended by the Code and are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
During the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Committee worked with a structured agenda of matters focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
These responsibilities included, inter alia: x monitoring internal control throughout the Group: x approving the Groups accounting policies: x reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, together with the US filing on Form 20-F, prior to submission to the Board: x reviewing the scope of the external audit plan and the internal Group Compliance work plan: x consideration of any related party matters: x review of Auditor performance and independence: x consideration of and recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment of the Auditors: x review of non-audit fees paid to the Auditors and other accountancy firms: x review of the Going Concern statement prior to consideration by the Board: x oversight and monitoring of the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Whistleblowing Policy: x the financial integration of Commonwealth Brands Inc: x review of Group Compliance performance: and x review of risk management systems.
During the year the Head of Group Compliance provided the Committee with detailed reports to facilitate the regular monitoring and review of its activities and effectiveness including those in respect of the programmes of activity in place to enable the Group to meet the requirements of both the Code and section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee undertook its annual review of the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Group Compliance Function and confirmed its approval.
The Committee continually monitors and critically reviews the authority, effectiveness and level of resource allocated to the activity.
The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other financial management were invited to attend each meeting of the Committee.
A standing item on each agenda allowed for the Head of Group Compliance to meet formally with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager being present, in line with the Codes requirements.
In addition, the Groups Auditors attended each meeting of the Committee during the year and, as a standing item on each agenda, met with the Committee members without the presence of any Executive Director or other manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
com 43 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Auditor Independence Policy The Group regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy, which provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired.
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform, establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors and for the recruitment of the Groups employees by the external Auditors.
This policy is published on the Groups website, www.
The Audit Committee also carried out bi-annual reviews of the remuneration received by the Auditors for audit services, audit related services and non-audit work with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance with this policy.
The outcome of these reviews was not only that performance of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was the most cost-effective way of conducting the Groups business but also that no conflict of interest existed between such audit and non-audit work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the financial year were principally related to due diligence work associated with the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands Inc. acting as reporting accountant in connection with our offer for Altadis, tax advisory work and SarbanesOxley section 404 compliance.
In other situations, proposed assignments were subject to independent tendering with decisions taken on the basis of competence and cost-effectiveness.
Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed by the Auditors it was agreed that the Group continues to receive an efficient, effective and independent audit service.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Group Compliance Function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
It confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance, and to comply with any relevant US governance and control provisions.
The provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require US listed companies to adopt a generally accepted framework of control, advocating the Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO as appropriate.
The Group considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfy the requirements of both the Turnbull guidance and COSO.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk Assessment: x The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part of its medium term planning process.
These objectives are incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle: x A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium term planning and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles: x All areas of the business undertook risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks were reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from each of the business operations identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there continue to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identified: x The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
The Group Compliance Function formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the outcome of its ongoing activities, including its programme of reviews relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and any more general business reviews.
These reports have supported the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within the business operations.
In this way, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Groups exposure to major business risks is minimised such that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group: x Notwithstanding that the Group has taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands in the first year after acquisition, the Group is integrating Commonwealth Brands within its overall control framework: and x A summary of the principal risks facing the business is included on page 12.
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Control Environment and Control Activities: x The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having their own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities: x The Board continually reviews the Groups organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles.
Such delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level: x The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision: x The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are expected to comply with.
These cover key issues such as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and health, safety and environmental issues.
This framework of policies and procedures, which has been developed and issued, with consistent communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite control guidance and remains pertinent to the Groups business activities: x A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial commonly referred to as Whistleblowing arrangements operates throughout the Group: x The Group has an established and consistent methodology for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations and identifying significant risk issues associated therewith.
Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with each significant risk that has been identified, including not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies: x There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions: x The Groups treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through treasury instruments: and x The Board reviews annually the Groups Treasury and Tax functions and Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental matters.
Information and communication: x Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed for robustness and realism: and x A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, ensured that major variances against plan were promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews were conducted at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by the Chief Executives Committee.
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
Monitoring: x A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These included independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant controls.
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance with the Groups policies and covering all business activities both financial and non-financial, have been maintained within their area of responsibility: x The Group Compliance Functions responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group: x Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function: and x As a consequence of its US listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Testing of the 2007 year end controls is still ongoing at the date of approval of the AR nnual eport.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 30 September 2007, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and Turnbull guidance.
Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, and review of the Groups financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
com 45 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Disclosure Committee: In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and to meet corporate governance best practice in the UK, the Group has a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives: x Company Secretary chairman: x Head of Group Compliance co-ordinator: x Senior Legal Counsel: and x Group Financial Controller.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The External Auditors, together with other senior management, are invited to attend or to submit matters for the attention of the Committee.
The Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, considered the significance of relevant information identified after due enquiry by its members both prior to each meeting and on an ongoing basis.
The Committee reported on its evaluation of such information to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and, as appropriate, the Audit Committee to assist them in their evaluation of material issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required.
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were reviewed during the year.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pension Fund The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting of five nominees from the Company: one member of which is chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the funds Rules and for no other purpose.
Political Donations As in the previous year, no political donations were made to EU political parties or organisations.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE listing standards relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but is exempt from others.
There is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the relevant NYSE listing standards.
The Board develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group.
In addition, the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent Group Compliance Function.
Communication with Shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with feedback from external advisers, ensured that the views expressed at meetings with major shareholders were communicated effectively to the Board as a whole such that any issues or concerns were fully understood.
The Groups Annual Review, a summary financial statement, provides shareholders with the material information concerning Imperial Tobacco Group in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Should they wish, shareholders can also request the full Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F. At the half year an Interim Report was published.
All of these documents are available online through the Imperial Tobacco Groups website, www.
com, together with all announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
In relation to the proposed acquisition of Altadis a circular was sent to shareholders on 18 July 2007 and an Extraordinary General Meeting was held on 13 August 2007.
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress of the Group via trading statements and of significant developments through other announcements.
These were also made available on other news services and on the Groups website.
There was regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences, which has been extended to ensure that major shareholders are given the opportunity to meet Non-Executive Directors on appointment and the senior independent Non-Executive Director will, if so requested, attend meetings with major investors.
The Group regularly liaises with its major shareholders and their representative bodies on significant issues.
The Group also met with Corporate Governance representatives of investors when requested.
46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Currently all shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including the ability to abstain if desired.
The amendments to the Companys Articles of Association, to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will allow the Company to benefit from the wider provisions under the Companies Act 2006 relating to communicating electronically with shareholders and will allow the Company to use its website to communicate with shareholders to a greater extent than currently possible.
In addition, at the AGM in 2007 individual shareholders received presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the Groups performance and current business activities and were given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and other Directors.
In accordance with the Groups practice, the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM were sent to shareholders more than 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject, with all resolutions put to a poll.
The Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against and withheld for each such resolution.
In 2007, voting levels at the AGM represented 70 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
After the conclusion of the meeting the final results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the group and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:- x select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: x make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: x state that the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and x prepare the group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Auditors Responsibilities Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs registered Auditors,  LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group and on the financial statements of the Company as presented by the Directors, on other elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation, and for reporting their opinion to members.
Their report is set out on page 67. www.
