Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover Corporate governance report The following sections explain how the Company applies The Non-executive Directors also met during the year without the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code the Executive Directors being present.
on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Board held 9 scheduled meetings during 2007, including Corporate governance framework an overseas meeting at the Companys facilities in Bucharest, The Boards overriding objective is to ensure that the Group Romania.
The Board met on several occasions outside of the delivers long term sustainable growth.
The Board is accountable formal schedule mainly to discuss specific strategic projects.
to the Companys shareholders for the good conduct of the Role of the Board Companys affairs.
Throughout the year, the Company has The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Companys of the Company and for providing strong leadership within a internal procedures are regularly reviewed and updated by framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risks to the Board and the relevant Committees.
Its principal focus is the Companys The Board continues to review corporate governance matters, strategic aims, developments and controls of the Group and it monitoring policies and guidelines issued by the main ensures that necessary financial and human resources are in institutional bodies, such as the Association of British Insurers place to enable these objectives to be met.
It reviews and adopting changes and recommendations of relevant management performance and succession, sets the bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Companys values and standards and ensures that its Administrators.
The Company continues to review the changes obligations to shareholders and to others are understood being introduced by the ongoing implementation of the and met, in particular in relation to: Companies Act 2006 and to take advantage of such changes, x Group strategy and operating plans: where required and where beneficial to its members.
x corporate governance: The Board The Board is chaired by Peter Johnson.
During 2007, the Board x compliance with laws, regulations and the Companys consisted of two Executive Directors, Andr Lacroix, the Group code of business conduct: Chief Executive and Barbara Richmond, the Group Finance x business development, including major investments, Director, and six Non-executive Directors.
Will Samuel is the acquisitions and disposals: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The names of all the Non-executive Directors and x financing and treasury: biographical details of the Board members are set out at x appointment and removal of Directors: pages 44 and 45. x succession planning for senior management roles: There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed annually, and which identifies those matters that x financial reporting, audit and monitoring of internal controls: the Board does not delegate to management.
x corporate social responsibility, ethics and the environment: Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board x external corporate communications: and Committees, as discussed at pages 54 and 55. x pensions.
of Independent years on as determined Audit Nominations Remuneration Name Position the Board by the Board Committee Committee Committee 9No No Yes No P Johnson Company Chairman and Chairman Chairman of the Nominations Committee A Lacroix Group Chief Executive 2No No Yes No B Richmond Group Finance Director 1 NoNoNo No R Chien Non-executive Director 10 No No No No K Guerra Non-executive Director 1 Yes No No Yes K Hanna Non-executive Director 6 Yes Yes Yes Yes Chairman 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes W Samuel Non-executive Director 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes D Scotland Non-executive Director M Wemms Non-executive Director and Chairman 3 Yes Yes Yes Yes Chairman of Remuneration Committee www.
com 51 Governance Corporate governance report continued Information and development Appointment and training The Board receives detailed financial information and The Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three presentations in addition to items for decision and minutes year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM of Board Committees in advance of each Board meeting after appointment.
After which, their appointment may be from members of the Executive Committee, operational extended by further three year periods.
The re-appointment of and functional heads and updates on developments in the any Non-executive Director who holds office for more than six business, legislative and regulatory environments.
Regular items years is subject to a specific and rigorous review process.
Any for Board meetings include the Group Chief Executives report Non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years on key issues affecting the Group, the Group Finance Directors is subject to annual re-election.
Raymond Chien is now subject report and operational performance and strategy updates from to annual re-election see page 53. the main business functions and operating divisions.
At the 2008 AGM, Andr Lacroix, Barbara Richmond and Will This enables Directors to make informed decisions on corporate Samuel will retire by notation and offer themselves for re-election and business issues under consideration.
in addition to Raymond Chien.
Each year an offsite meeting is held with members of the There is a formal and transparent procedure for the Executive Committee at which the Companys strategy is appointment of new Directors, the prime responsibility for which reviewed in depth.
This meeting took place in July 2007. is delegated to the Nominations Committee.
Newly appointed Following this meeting, the Board and the Executive Committee Directors take part in an induction process.
This may include agree on an annual basis the strategic agenda for the year, advice from external consultants.
In particular, it provides which included the reporting period updates from the operating information on the business, including site visits, to ensure businesses including Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, the awareness of responsibilities and full appraisal of the Groups Balkans and the UK: from the European Retail and Distribution activities and strategic direction.
businesses: IT: Business Development: Legal and HR.
Throughout a Directors time in office, each Director is In addition, Board members are invited to visit operational and continually updated on the Groups businesses, the competitive functional areas of the business.
and regulatory environments in which they operate, corporate responsibility matters, and other changes affecting the Group All Directors have access to the services of the Company and the markets in which it operates with briefings from the Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Companys external advisers, where appropriate.
These that Board processes and procedures are effectively followed arrangements are designed to ensure that Directors skills, and supporting effective decision making and governance.
She knowledge and familiarity with the Company are kept up to is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive date to enable them to fulfil their role both on the Board and appropriate training and, for new Directors, induction to the on its Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The terms and conditions of appointment of each Director will be available at each AGM and are also available at the The Directors may take independent professional advice at Companys registered office during normal business hours.
None of the Directors sought to do Attendance and committee membership so during 2007.
The Company provides insurance cover During the year, the Directors attended the following number and indemnities for its Directors and officers.
of scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Where a Director is unable to make a meeting, he she is advised in advance of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make his her views known to the Chairman, Committee Chairman or Company Secretary before the meeting.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Peter Johnson 9 9 2 2 Andr Lacroix 9 9 2 2 9 9 Barbara Richmond 9 9 Raymond Chien Karen Guerra 99 22 Ken Hanna 99 33 22 2 2 99 33 22 2 2 Will Samuel David Scotland 98 32 21 2 2 Michael Wemms 99 33 22 2 2 David Scotland was absent for each meeting, held on the same day, due to illness.
52 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover Division of responsibilities The other five Non-executive Directors are considered by There is a clear division of responsibilities between the the Board to be independent in accordance with the Code, Chairman and Group Chief Executive, which is set out namely, as being independent in character and judgement in writing and approved by the Board.
and having no relationships which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Will Samuel and Peter Johnson, as Chairman, is responsible for creating the Michael Wemms are both non-executive directors of Galiform conditions to achieve overall Board and individual Directors PLC.
Having regard to all the circumstances, including the effectiveness and, in particular, for the effective operation independence they have demonstrated as Directors of the and chairing of the Board and ensuring that the information it Company and the fact that there are no cross-shareholdings receives is sufficient to make informed judgements with good or business relationships between Galiform and Inchcape, co-operation between the Board and the Executive Committee.
the Board is satisfied and has determined that they are The Board has delegated authority for the day to day both independent.
management of the Companys business to the Group Matters are referred to the Board as a whole and no one Chief Executive, Andr Lacroix.
The Group Chief Executive is individual or small group of individuals has unfettered powers responsible for the operational implementation of the strategy of decision making.
and policies agreed by the Board.
He is supported by the Executive Committee.
The biographical details of the Balance of independent directors Executive Committee are detailed at pages 49 and 50.
Independence non-executive directors Independent Peter Johnson was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2006 Non-executive Executive Directors 5 for a three year term, having previously been the Group Chief Directors 2 Executive.
As previously reported, the Board recognised the benefit to the Company and its shareholders of Peter Johnsons ongoing involvement because of his deep and broad experience of the automotive industry as a whole and the contrasting international markets in which Inchcape operates.
The Board also recognised the pivotal role which he has Non-independent Chairman 1 Non-executive played in the development and continuity of the Companys Directors 1 relationships with its major international brand partners, which If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the in many cases are founded upon associations built up over running of the Company or a proposed action, these would be many years.
recorded in the Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign over All Directors bring an independent judgement to bear on an unresolved issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the issues of strategy, performance, resources including key attention of the Board.
No such issues or concerns arose during appointments and standards of conduct.
Directors share responsibility for the execution of the Boards Performance evaluation duties, taking into account their specific responsibilities.
They The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own and each comprise the principal external presence in the governance Board Committees performance, roles and terms of reference.
of the Company and provide a strong independent element The Board reviewed the process in October 2007 and coupled with strong company experience, required for the determined that an external facilitation was not necessary.
execution of the Companys strategy.
The key elements of the This decision was based on the fact that the composition of role and responsibilities of the Non-executive Directors are: the Board had not changed during 2007 and the Board had x guidance and advice to the CEO: successfully implemented recommended changes from the prior years external evaluation process.
x development of strategy with the CEO: x scrutiny of performance: However, the Board considers that an evaluation of its x controls: performance is key to ensuring an effective Board, which in turn x reporting of performance: is vital to the success of the Company.
Led by the Chairman x remuneration of and succession planning for Executive and supported by the Company Secretary, a performance Directors: and evaluation questionnaire was used for the performance evaluation process.
This questionnaire covered the effectiveness x governance and compliance.
of the Board, each Committees performance against In addition to the Chairman, the Board currently has six objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and Non-executive Directors who bring to the Group a wide diversity corporate governance matters.
It addressed issues raised by the of experience and expertise.
Raymond Chien is not regarded Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of Non-executive as independent because he previously had a service contract Directors published in January 2003.
The Board members with Crown Motors Limited, a subsidiary of the Company concluded that appropriate actions have been identified to incorporated in Hong Kong and has now served for 10 years address areas that could be improved and that overall the on the Board.
Board and Committees continued to perform effectively.
com 53 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Chairman evaluates the performance of each NonResponsibilities executive Director and met with each Non-executive Director The Committees responsibilities, which are set out in its terms of reference, include: to discuss performance.
The Non-executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, met x monitoring the integrity of the Financial statements of the without the presence of the Chairman to evaluate the Company and any formal announcement relating to its Chairmans performance.
financial performance: x reviewing internal financial controls and internal control Following the performance evaluation process, the Chairman and risk management systems: has confirmed that the Non-executive Directors standing for x monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively audit function: and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board will x making recommendations to the Board in relation to the continue to review performance annually.
appointment and removal of the external auditor: Board committees x reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal and the effectiveness of the audit process: Committees.
Formal terms of reference for each Committee x reviewing and implementing the policy on the engagement have been approved by the Board and are available at of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and www.
All Committee and Chairmen report x reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to verbally on the proceedings of the Committee at the next raise concerns confidentially about possible improprieties Board meeting.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary in relation to financial reporting or other matters.
to all of the Board Committees.
In order to fulfil its duties, the Committee receives and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior Board management, consulting as necessary with the external auditor.
Overall Strategy The Company has a policy, which is regularly reviewed by the Committee, regarding the scope and extent of any non-audit services provided to it by its auditors.
The purpose of the policy Audit Committee Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee oversees the is to ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent integrity of financial recommends sets the in their audit work.
A system of checks is in place, which must be information, the the appointment remuneration effectiveness of the Board policy for Executive complied with prior to the auditors being engaged in non-audit of financial controls Directors and Directors and work, with clear divisions of responsibility between audit and and the internal has responsibility senior management control and for evaluating and determines non-audit staff.
The Committee has acted in compliance with risk management the balance of their individual this policy.
Financial limits are imposed on permitted areas of systems the Board and for remuneration succession planning arrangements non-audit work, such as tax advice.
at Board level For 2007, the ratio of audit to non-audit work was 1:1.
The Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit fees and the Audit committee approach taken and confirmed that this is acceptable.
Members The membership of the Committee is shown on page 44.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services During the year, the Committee comprised wholly of is provided in note 3 on page 87.
Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
Activities The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Ken Hanna who will The Committee meets at least three times a year and has be present at the Companys Annual General Meeting to an agenda linked to events in the Companys financial answer questions on this Report and matters within the scope calendar.
No one, other than the Committee Chairman of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
and the members, is entitled to be present at meetings of In light of Ken Hannas qualifications as a Chartered the Committee, although others, including the Chairman, the Accountant and his experience with Coopers & Lybrand, Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Compass Partners and Cadbury Schweppes, and Will Audit and Risk Management Director and the external auditors Samuels qualifications as a Chartered Accountant and his attend by invitation of the Committee.
experience with Lazard and Edinburgh Investment Trust, the The external auditor has unrestricted access to the Committee.
Board has determined that they have recent and relevant financial experience.
During 2007, the Committee discharged its responsibilities set out in its Terms of Reference, including: The Non-executive Directors on the Committee have the opportunity at each meeting to review any issues with x monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Financial the external auditors and with the Group Audit and Risk statements of the Company, including its Annual and Interim Management Director without members of the executive Reports, Interim and Preliminary Results announcements and management being present.
any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: 54 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover x reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Responsibilities Companys internal control and risk management systems: The Nominations Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments.
The Committee makes x monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and external auditor, including reviewing the recommendations to the Board, having evaluated the balance external auditors findings and the report of the Group Audit of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
In light of this and Risk Management Director: evaluation, the Nominations Committee prepares a description x reviewing and assessing the annual internal audit plan and of the role and capabilities required for a particular the results of the internal auditors work, including reviewing appointment.
Candidates from a range of backgrounds are and monitoring managements responsiveness to the findings considered.
The Nominations Committee uses external advisers and recommendations: to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
x reviewing the compliance programme, including whistle The Nominations Committee keeps the extent of any Directors blowing provisions: other interests under review to ensure that the effectiveness of x considering the Directors duties under the Companies the Board is not compromised.
The Board is satisfied that the Act regarding disclosure of information to the Companys Chairman and each Non-executive Director commits sufficient auditors: and time to the fulfilment of their duties as Chairman and Directors x considering and making recommendations to the Board, to of the Company respectively.
The Board believes, in principle, be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation in the benefit of Executive Directors accepting non-executive to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
directorships of other companies as noted on page 61.
The Committee may engage, at the Companys expense, Activities independent counsel and other advisers as it deems necessary The principal activities of the Nominations Committee during the to carry out its duties.
None was engaged during 2007. year were the review of succession planning in respect of Executive Directors and Executive Committee members and the The Committee has recommended to the Board that the consideration of current and potential Non-executive Directors.
In addition, the Committee made recommendations for the The Companys whistle blowing policy is communicated to election and re-election of Directors retiring at the 2008 AGM.
No employees on a global basis.
The policy, which is monitored Director participated in the meeting when recommendations by the Audit Committee, is aimed at enabling employees to regarding his or her election or re-election were considered.
In raise concerns with the disclosure response team in cases particular, the Nominations Committee specifically reviewed the where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our Values.
continued service of any Non-executive Director who has served 6 or more years on the Board to ensure that Board members Disclosure of information to the auditors continue to possess the skills deemed appropriate for the needs So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit of the Company and its shareholders.
information of which the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken The Nominations Committee reviews annually the re-election as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant of any Board member who has served for longer than nine audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware years on the Board.
This confirmation is given pursuant to the Remuneration committee Companies Act 1985.
Details in respect of the Remuneration Committee are set out Nominations committee in the Remuneration Report at pages 58 to 61.
Members Relations with shareholders Membership of the Nominations Committee is shown at page The Company is committed to maintaining good 44.
It is chaired by the Chairman and the majority of members communications with investors.
Contact with shareholders is continue to be independent Non-executive Directors.
The normally the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive, Group Committee meets at least once each year.
Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman, Only the Committee Chairman and its members are entitled Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive to be present at meetings of the Committee, although others, Director and other Board members are available to shareholders.
including the Group Human Resources Director, attend by There is an established investor relations programme and invitation of the Committee.
The Committee engages external regular meetings are held with major shareholders to update consultants to assist it with its work.
them on the Companys progress and to discuss any issues that investors may have.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and other Board members are available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts who are invited to presentations by the Company immediately following the announcements of the Companys results and other trading statements.
In addition, the Company held a meeting with its www.
com 55 Governance Corporate governance report continued analysts in St Petersburg in October 2007 to specifically discuss establishing and reviewing the system of internal controls the the Companys Emerging Markets strategy.
Directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of major Therefore, the system can only provide a reasonable but not shareholders and analysts.
absolute assurance against any material mis-statement or loss The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private and cannot eliminate business risk.
shareholders and on its behalf, the Companys investor The Group operates a Risk Management Strategy Group relations department and Company Secretary manage the day RMSG which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and to day communications with these investors and act in close includes the Group Finance Director, General Counsel and consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee, consisting Group Company Secretary, Group Information Systems Director, of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Group Treasury Director, Group Audit Director and the Group Director, one other Director of the Company and the Company Risk Manager.
Secretary, ensures that all appropriate communications are made to the London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
All The RMSG meets quarterly to consider what changes to risk material information reported to the regulatory news service is management and control processes should be recommended.
simultaneously published on the Companys website affording Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks all shareholders access to Company announcements.
that have been identified, output from monitoring processes, including internal audit reports, and changes to be made to the The Companys AGM provides an opportunity for the Board internal control system.
It also follows up on areas that require to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, the improvement and reports back to the Audit Committee.
Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of Committee The Group Chief Executive also reports to the Board, on behalf chairmen.
All shareholders are invited to raise any Company of executive management, significant changes in the Groups matters of interest to them at the Companys AGM to the business and the external environment in which it operates.
Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Committee Chairman and In addition, the Group Finance Director provides the Board with other members of the Board.
In line with the Code, details of monthly financial information, which includes key performance proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are and risk indicators.
The Groups key internal control and made available on the Companys website following the monitoring procedures include the following: meeting.
Private shareholders are also encouraged to write to the Chairman or any Board member to express views on The Board, through itself and its Committees ensures that any any matters of concern.
items requiring further investigation and follow up are further reviewed and actions are put in place to remedy any significant Following approval given by shareholders at the last annual failings or weaknesses, should any be discovered.
meeting, shareholders may elect to receive email notification Financial reporting that shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget is available on the companys website, as an alternative to approved by the Directors.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and receiving any such documentation by post.
reported against the budget and, where appropriate, revised To facilitate the ability of our shareholders to buy additional forecasts at each of the Boards scheduled meetings.
shares in a cost effective way, in 2007 the Company introduced Monitoring systems a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
The DRIP is available to all Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on its examination shareholders either online or through our Registrars.
and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Operational and compliance controls Groups systems of internal control.
Internal Audit also works The Board is responsible for the establishment and review of closely with management and the external auditor.
the Companys internal operational and compliance control Operating unit controls system, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient The overall control framework for the Group is detailed in operations, quality of internal and external reporting, internal the Group Finance and Information Systems manuals and is control and compliance with appropriate laws and regulations.
supplemented by risk management policies.
Compliance with The Board has ensured compliance with the Revised Guidance Group policies and the effectiveness of internal controls are for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Directors regularly assessed through the audit process and through acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system of a process of self certification, which requires business unit internal controls and confirm they have reviewed the systems management to assess annually the quality of internal controls effectiveness.
The Board, advised by the Committee, takes note in their businesses.
of the Guidance on Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance in the Code.
In particular the Board has ensured that a process for managing significant risks has been in place for the year and up to the date of the accounts and is regularly reviewed.
However, such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In 56 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover Risk management x prepare the Group and Company Financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume The Groups management operates a risk management that the Company and the Group will continue in business, process, which identifies the key risks facing each business unit.
in which case there should be supporting assumptions or A risk register, which identifies the key risks, the impact should qualifications as necessary.
they occur and actions being taken to manage those risks to The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the desired level, is produced for each business unit.
In addition, requirements in preparing the Financial statements.
actions to be taken in the event that such risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they are managed are also The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting included.
This information is passed up the organisation, records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any culminating in the production of a Group Risk Register, which time the financial position of the Company and the Group is approved by the Risk Management Strategy Group and the and enable them to ensure that the Group Financial Executive Committee.
In addition, it is provided to and statements comply with the Companies Act and Article 4 discussed with the Audit Committee.
Internal audit continuously of the IAS Regulation and the Company Financial statements review financial, commercial and systems developments in the and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Groups business units to ensure appropriate audit focus in the Companies Act and Directors Remuneration Report major risk areas.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for Investment appraisal taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The Group has clearly defined policies for capital expenditure.
of fraud and other irregularities.
These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control of the Companys website.
The work carried out by the auditors systems in operation during the financial year in accordance does not involve consideration of these matters, and with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Guidance, through accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any the processes set out above.
changes that may have occurred to the Financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Information Directors responsibilities published on the internet is accessible in many countries with The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the the Remuneration Report and the Financial statements in preparation and dissemination of Financial statements may accordance with applicable law and regulations.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company Financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent company Financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial statements, the Directors are required to: x select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: x make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: x state that the Group Financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Company Financial statements that, applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial statements: www.
