Statement on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the highest standards of by other Directors.
Mr Rennocks is also available to meet corporate governance.
The Board has reviewed and is shareholders and during the year, attended investor meetings reporting on the Companys compliance with the requirements where he met analysts and shareholders.
of the Combined Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and reissued in June 2006 for The Board still believes that it is appropriate to consider the year ended 31December 2007.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd as an independent, Non-Executive Director, notwithstanding that he is an independent, nonThe Company has been in compliance with the provisions set executive director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation which out in Section 1 of the Code save as provided below: is a major supplier to the Company.
Andrew Sukawaty acts in the dual role of Chairman and Collectively, the Board believes that it possesses all of the Chief Executive officer.
Mr Sukawaty was appointed necessary range of qualities and experience to lead the Chairman in December 2003 and was asked by the Company effectively.
The Board meets regularly throughout Board to take on the additional responsibilities of Chief the year.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each Executive officer in March 2004.
The Board believes that of the Non-Executive Directors commit sufficient time to the Mr Sukawatys wide experience of the telecommunications fullment of their duties as Directors of the Company.
industry in an executive capacity means that he is extremely The Board delegates management of the business to the well qualied to lead the Company in the joint role of Executive Management Board listed on page 21, who meet Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
In September 2007, on a regular basis.
the Board announced that it had asked and Mr Sukawaty had agreed to remain in the joint role for a further period The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive which is expected to be not less than two years.
It is Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other anticipated that he would then transition to the sole role companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for of Chairman: and the benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require in his capacity as Executive Chairman of the Company, the prior approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not Andrew Sukawaty acts as Chairman of the Nominations take on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE Committee.
The Senior Independent Director, who is a 100 company or any chairmanship of such a company.
member of the Nominations Committee, acts as Chairman Mr Sukawaty and Mr Medlock have external directorships of the meetings for discussion relating to succession and they are permitted to retain any directors fees from these planning for the Chief Executive officer role.
Details of these directorships can be found in their biographies on page 20 and details of the fees The Board retained can be found on page 38.
To avoid potential The composition of the Board and its various Committees is conicts of interest, Non-Executive Directors are expected regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to reect the Boards to inform the Chairman before taking up any additional and the Committees balance of skills, expected time external appointments.
The Board currently has eight Directors, comprising three Executive Directors and The Chairman and Chief Executive officer is responsible five independent, Non-Executive Directors, which is considered for the running of the Board and for implementing strategy 1 an effective size and balance for the Company.
A list of the for the Inmarsat Core operations.
The Board has a formal individual Directors, their biographies and details of their schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but can also Committee membership are provided on pages 20 and 21. delegate specic responsibilities to its Board Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
Regular items Following the Companys listing on the London Stock for Board meetings include up-dates on business development Exchange in June 2005, Andrew Sukawaty remained Chairman opportunities, monthly financial and operational reviews and and Chief Executive officer, both executive roles.
There was as appropriate, reports from each of the principal Board a commitment that whilst this did not meet the requirements Committees.
Among the key matters on which the Board of the Code, there would, in time, be a separation of the alone may make decisions are the business strategy of 1 roles as noted above.
The Board continues to believe that Inmarsat Core, its annual budget, dividends, financial Mr Sukawatys involvement in both roles provides a balanced reporting and major corporate activities.
The Board holds a and stable platform for the Company as it matures as a public strategy meeting once a year at which it considers the future company and is in the best interests of the Company and its direction of the business.
To reect this and in response to a request from the Board, in September 2007, Mr Sukawaty agreed that he Non-Executive Directors have been appointed initially for would remain in the joint role for a further period of not less three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless than two years.
agreed by the Board, remain in ofce for a period longer than six years, or two terms in ofce, whichever is the shorter.
The Board also believes that it continues to be appropriate, The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive with the Chairman and Chief Executive officer roles being Directors ensures that they can debate with, and constructively combined, to maintain John Rennocks in his role as Deputy challenge, management both in relation to the development Chairman, in addition to his role as Senior Independent of strategy and in relation to operational and financial Director.
In this role, concerns can be conveyed to performance.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually, MrRennocks, independently of the Executive Directors, without the Chairman and Chief Executive officer in attendance, to assess Board balance and independence and to monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director chairs these meetings.
Inmarsat plc 1 26 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
On joining the Board, new Directors are given a During the year to 31December 2007, the Audit Committee comprehensive, formal and tailored induction programme reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, including the provision of background material on the half-year and full-year financial statements and results Company and briengs with senior management.
When announcements and the quarterly financial reports for two considered necessary, further formal training is provided post US reporting subsidiaries.
It considered internal audit reports appointment.
The Company Secretary supplies all Directors and risk management updates, agreed external and internal with information on relevant legal and best practice audit plans, received updates on management responses developments.
to audit recommendations and approved the review of accounting policies.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general Pursuant to the requirements of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley meeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board Act 2002 for its US reporting subsidiaries for reporting periods are made on merit and against objective criteria.
At least commencing 1 January 2007, an annual assessment must be one-third of the Directors must retire and, as appropriate, undertaken by management of the effectiveness of internal seek re-election by the shareholders at each annual controls over financial reporting.
This has required a significant general meeting.
project to document and test internal controls over financial reporting.
The Audit Committee has overseen the progress Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of of this project through regular status reports submitted by the relevant meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible management.
The first annual assessment and related report to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, from management will be included in the Forms 20-F, which advising the Board, through the Chairman and Chief Executive will be led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission officer, on all corporate governance matters and minuting SEC in April 2008.
The external Auditors Auditors are not any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director.
Were a required to conduct their assessment under s404 for the Director to resign over an unresolved issue, the Chairman and financial year ended 31December 2007.
Chief Executive officer would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role of which is detailed on page 30, reported The Directors have access to the advice and services of on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of the Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take financial and other material information to the Board, to the independent advice in the furtherance of their duties public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit if necessary.
Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
Board Committees The main Board Committees are the Audit Committee, The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations it has an objective and professional relationship with the Committee.
The terms of reference explaining the roles Auditors.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Companys of these Committees and the authority delegated to them Auditors may also be employed where, as a result of their by the Board are published on the Groups website at position as Auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, www.
The Secretary to these Board perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in Committees is the Company Secretary.
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors to ensure that there is adequate protection of their Audit Committee independence and objectivity.
The Auditors regularly confirm All members of the Audit Committee are independent, their independence to the Committee.
The policy identies Non-Executive Directors and have significant, recent and three categories of accounting services: audit-related services, relevant financial experience.
The Board is confident that which the Companys Auditors provide such as interim and the collective experience of the Audit Committee members full year reporting : prohibited services, which the Companys enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Audit Auditors may never provide such as corporate finance Committee.
Their details are disclosed on page 21.
By consulting or advisory services : and potential services, which invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be the Companys Auditors may in certain circumstances provide, attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive officer, subject to procurement procedures and fee constraints such Chief Financial officer and the internal and external Auditors, as tax advisory services and due diligence.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the internal and external Auditors.
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and risk management and ensuring that the Groups financial statements present a true and fair view of the Groups financial position.
Its duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendation and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external Auditors.
Inmarsat plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance continued During the year, specic approval had been given by the Audit Nominations Committee Committee for the Companys Auditors to perform non-audit The composition of the Nominations Committee is disclosed services.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded on page 21 and comprises a majority of independent, through a variety of mechanisms.
Fees charged by the Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee Companys Auditors in respect of non-audit services require the meets as and when necessary.
The Nominations Committee prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee has responsibility for nominating to the Board, candidates does not exceed more than 5% of the total revenues paid to for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the need the Auditors in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has for a broad representation of skills across the Board.
agreed that the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and tax compliance work from the Auditors, in The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations aggregate, of up to 20% of the total audit fee each year, with to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any up to 50,000 for any one project, without the need to seek independent, Non-Executive Director by the Board at the approval for individual projects.
A breakdown of the fees paid conclusion of his or her specified term: the re-election of to the Companys Auditors during the year is set out in note 7 any Director by shareholders under the retirement provisions to the consolidated financial statements.
of the Companys Articles of Association: and changes to senior management.
The Nominations Committee gives full Remuneration Committee consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, The composition of the Remuneration Committee is disclosed taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing on page 21 and comprises solely independent, Non-Executive the Company and what skills and expertise are needed on Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the the Board and from senior management in the future.
Board, meets as and when necessary to review and approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of the Executive Directors During 2007, the Nominations Committee made and senior management and major remuneration plans for recommendations to the Board that Mr Sukawaty should 1 the Inmarsat Core operations.
The Remuneration Committee remain in the joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive officer appraises the Chairman and Chief Executive officer against for a further period of time.
The Chairman and Chief Executive his written objectives.
Similarly, the Chairman and Chief officer did not and will not chair the Nominations Committee Executive officer appraises the other Executive Directors when it is dealing with agenda items relating to the role of and makes recommendations to the Remuneration Committee Chief Executive officer.
The Remuneration Committee approves the setting of objectives for all of the Executive 2007 Board and Committee meetings Directors and authorises their annual bonus payments for During the year to 31December 2007, the Board met ten achievement of objectives.
The Remuneration Committee times, including a meeting to approve progressing a specic provides remuneration packages necessary and sufficient to project.
This excludes ad hoc meetings held solely to deal with attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors to run the procedural matters.
The following table shows the attendance Company successfully.
The packages take into account of Directors at meetings of the Board and its main available remuneration data and views from advisers.
The Committees: Remuneration Committee is empowered to recommend the Audit Remuneration Nominations grant of share options under the existing share option plans Board Committee Committee Committee and to make awards under the short and long-term incentive maximum: 10 maximum: 4 maximum: 5 maximum: 3 plans.
The Remuneration Committee considers there to be an Michael Butler 10 appropriate balance between xed and variable remuneration Sir Bryan Carsberg 10 4 5 2 and between short and long-term variable components of Stephen Davidson 10 4 5 3 remuneration.
The Companys remuneration policy is intended Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 8 4 3 to reward successful delivery against increasing returns for Kathleen Flaherty 10 5 2 shareholders and to support the achievement of the strategy Rick Medlock 10 4 2 1 of Inmarsat Core.
John Rennocks 10 4 3 3 Andrew Sukawaty 10 3 3 2 During the year, the Remuneration Committee put in place a Attendance by invitation only.
one-off performance-related share incentive award to Andrew Note: The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
Sukawaty, the Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
Further details of this award are set out in the Directors Remuneration Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business or Report.
personal commitments or in the case of the Nominations Committee, where the Chairman was recused due to the All of the decisions of the Remuneration Committee on subject matter of the meeting.
In an instance where a remuneration matters in 2007 were reported to and endorsed Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, by the Board.
any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Directors attend several other meetings during the year and contribute in various ways outside the formal meeting schedule.
Inmarsat plc 1 28 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
Performance evaluation Investor and analyst conference calls took place after the half The effectiveness of the Board is an essential element of year results were published in August 2007.
There is an the Companys effective and efficient performance.
During ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the 2007, the Board and each of the Audit, Nominations and Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers Remuneration Committees undertook performance and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant evaluations.
The main elements in the evaluation process were: issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of information individual Directors and Committee members completed which has already been made public.
The Board is aware that separate evaluation questionnaires regarding the processes institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with of the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and the Company than other shareholders, but care is exercised where improvements could be considered.
They also to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to undertook a peer review in which they assessed their fellow all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in Directors performance: accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
each of the Non-Executive Directors had a formal one-on-one discussion with the Company Secretary: The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available the results were compiled and analysed by the Company to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved Secretary and circulated to the full Board: and through the normal channels or such concerns have not been the Board considered the results of the evaluation resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him process as a specic item of business.
The evaluation process concluded that the Board and its main The Board consults with shareholders in connection with Committees had functioned efficiently and effectively during specic issues where it considers it appropriate.
For example, the year and that the individual Directors had also met the the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior standards expected of them, with each making a significant Independent Director met with institutional shareholders in contribution to the Company.
The issues identied during 2007 regarding the Chief Executive officer Share Award, details the evaluation, such as modications to Board documentation of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
and meeting presentations and content thereof, have been discussed and changes to Board practice implemented.
Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will be the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the reviewed by the Board.
The Board considers at this time that Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as there remains value in continuing to conduct the performance possible, will attend the 2008 AGM and be available to answer evaluation process internally, rening the approach and shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by questionnaires each year.
poll, by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
The voting results will be notied to the UK Listing Authority The Nominations Committee confirmed to the Board that the through a Regulatory Information Service immediately after contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for the meeting and will be published on the Companys website.
re-appointment at the 2008 AGM continued to benefit the Board and the Company should support their re-appointment.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Lehman Brothers Directors remuneration International, on the views of institutional investors on a Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration shareholders would be communicated to the Board by the Report on pages 33 to 41.
As a matter of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price, Relations with shareholders trading activity and details of movements in institutional The Company recognises the importance of communicating investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and current analyst opinions and forecasts.
performance is understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Board as a whole is responsible for Internal Controls ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes The Board confirms that the procedures necessary to place, whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive officer and implement the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Chief Financial officer ensure that the views of shareholders Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board Reporting Council in October 2005 have been established.
ensures that the Companys strategic plans have been The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term maintaining the Groups system of internal controls excluding shareholder value.
An audited 2007 Annual Report will be sent CIP where it has no control and it receives regular reports from to shareholders and all results are posted on the Companys management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks website, as are presentations made to institutional investors.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve The Company has given regular investor road shows in the business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not UK and overseas and presentations were also made after absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2008.
Inmarsat plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a yearly based on a standardised reporting process.
In addition, review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in line with the Transparency Directive, during 2008 the 1 for the Inmarsat Core operations during the year ended Company will also publish interim management statements.
31December 2007 and for the period up to the date of Quarterly reports for US reporting purposes are issued for approval of the consolidated financial statements contained two of the Companys subsidiaries.
Any necessary action resulting from discussions by the Board and Audit Committee has been Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular or is being taken to remedy any significant failings or reports from the internal and external Auditors and assures weaknesses identied from the review.
itself that the internal control environment of the Group excluding CIP is operating effectively.
There are formal The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity excluding CIP, which have been in place throughout the year and accuracy of the accounting records and to safeguard under review and up to the date of this report, include: the Groups assets.
significant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
The Company has in Risk management: management operates a risk management place a formal procedure by which staff can, in confidence, process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and the business and to report to the Board on how those risks are other matters, including pensions administration often being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored in place for proportionate and independent investigation and by the Risk Committee, which identies the risk area, the appropriate follow-up action and the results would be reported probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur to the Audit Committee.
and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
The risk register is provided monthly to the Executive The Board recognises its obligations as a result of two of the Management Board and quarterly to the Board and to the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries being foreign registrants Audit Committee.
of the SEC, including the requirement to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The Company has established a Management structure: there is a clearly dened Disclosure Committee with responsibility for reviewing and organisational structure throughout the Group with established approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure lines of reporting and delegation of authority based on job of financial and related information and other procedures responsibilities and experience.
A process of self-certication necessary to enable the Chairman and Chief Executive officer is used where Directors and senior managers are required to and the Chief Financial officer to provide their certications detail and certify controls in operation to mitigate risk in key in relation to Forms 20-F led with the SEC.
The Company has process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk also established processes to assess the adequacy of internal management processes are in place and are operating controls over financial reporting procedures as required under effectively.
s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 for the financial year ended 31December 2007.
Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and non-financial Going Concern information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, After due consideration, the Directors have a reasonable forecasts and performance targets allow management to expectation that the Company has adequate resources to monitor the key business and financial activities and the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports halfbasis in preparing the accounts.
Risk management process Inmarsat plc Board Audit Committee Executive Management Board defines the risk governance reviews the risk management reviews the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management sets overall risk strategy and policy systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives approves risk levels reviews the internal audit is responsible for an effective programme and reports system of internal controls Risk Committee reviews the risk prole against risk appetite and determines actions in relation to risk prole, strategy and key controls reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities assesses major risk-related projects Business Operations implements mitigation strategies Inmarsat plc 1 30 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
