THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THE BOARD, SENIOR THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Share capital Charitable donations During the year, 3,512,783 new shares were issued under During the year, the Group donated 626,000 in support of employee share plans and, following the share capital community initiatives and charitable causes.
In addition to these consolidation, the Companys share capital at 31 December 2007 cash contributions, employees are encouraged to give their time 29 consisted of 294,623,308 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
There and skills to a variety of causes and IHG makes donations in kind, are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer attaching such as hotel accommodation.
Taking these contributions into to these ordinary shares.
account, total donations in 2007 are estimated at 770,000.
The Company has not utilised the authority given by shareholders Political donations at any of its Annual General Meetings, to allot shares for cash The Group made no political donations during the year and without offering such shares to existing shareholders.
proposes to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
Substantial shareholdings Financial risk management As at 18 February 2008, the Company had been notified by The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, shareholders of the following substantial interests, representing including its use of financial instruments, are set out on pages 3% or more of its ordinary share capital: 20 and 21 of the Business Review and in notes 21 and 22 to the Ellerman Corporation Limited 10% Group financial statements on pages 73 to 76.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited 5.60% A number of IHGs banking arrangements are terminable upon Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% a change of control of the Company.
Legal & General Group Plc 4.09% Lloyds TSB Group Plc 3.84% Policy on payment of suppliers Directors InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
Group companies aim to adhere to the Details of Directors who served on the Board during the year payment terms agreed with suppliers.
Payments are contingent are shown on page 31.
Details of the beneficial share interests on the supplier providing goods or services to the required of Directors who were on the Board at the year end are shown standard, and purchasing is sometimes coordinated between on page 43.
No changes to these interests occurred between Group undertakings.
the year end and the date of this report.
During the year, IHG has maintained cover for its Directors and Going concern officers, and those of its subsidiary companies, under a directors The financial statements which appear on pages 48 to 88 and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by the have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making Companies Act 2006. appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The Group has provided to all of its Directors, limited indemnities expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in respect of costs of defending claims against them, and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 Auditors and are all currently in force.
The Directors who held office as at the date of approval of this report confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves There were no indemnity provisions relating to the UK pension aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors is plan, for the benefit of the Directors of the Company, in place aware of any relevant audit information which has not been during the period.
Employees Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue IHG directly employed an average of 10,366 people worldwide in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will in the year ended 31 December 2007.
When the managed and be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
franchised estate is included, approximately 315,000 people work for IHGs brands across the globe.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Further information regarding the Groups employment policies, 11.00am on Friday, 30 May 2008 is contained in a circular sent including its obligations under equal opportunities legislation, to shareholders with this Report.
its commitment to employee communications and its approach towards staff development, can be found on pages 9 and 10 By order of the Board of the Business Review.
Richard Winter Company Secretary 18 February 2008 Directors report 29 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be and considers that the Company has complied with the Code recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2007. assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are also listed the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
to the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As required Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project has been completed to by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the identify, evaluate and test key financial controls across all Companys corporate governance practices and those followed our business units.
This enabled appropriate representations by US companies may be found on the Companys website at regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls to www.
com investors under corporate governance be made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for NYSE differences.
the December 2006 year end, in compliance with these US obligations, and will enable similar representations to be Control environment made in the Companys 2007 Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board has insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
While the insurance established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, market has eased in some areas, certain risks, eg natural including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility catastrophe, remain difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost and delegated authority.
In some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an economic price.
The Group regularly reviews both Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating in mind the availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood Committees have established processes, as part of the normal and magnitude of the risks involved.
good management of the business, to monitor: strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive Board and Committee structure series of Group and regional strategic reviews: To support the principles of good corporate governance, the financial performance, within a comprehensive financial Board and Committee structure operates as set out below.
planning and accounting framework: capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal The Board and authorisation processes: and The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, risk management, through an ongoing process, which three Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors meets the has been in place up to the date of the accounts providing requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, assurance through reports from both the Head of Risk excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive Management and the Head of Internal Audit that the significant Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and Directors are independent.
appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic cost and opportunity.
direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work carried performance of past investments and maintains an overview out under the annual internal audit plan, including an annual and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
report on the operation of the monitoring processes set out It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, above to support the Boards annual statement on internal governance and compliance.
The Board ensures that the control: and necessary financial and human resources are in place for reports from the external auditor.
the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has established The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the a schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2007, and decision.
These may be found on the Companys website.
taking account of any material developments which have taken The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of place since the year end.
Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
30 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THE BOARD, SENIOR THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met together refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and without the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the the Senior Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally performance.
The outcome of this appraisal was positive.
the required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, The work and effectiveness during the year of the Audit in a structured way.
Committee were also evaluated, and the results were reported to Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and the Board.
The performance of the Remuneration and Nomination further meetings are held as needed.
During 2007, 11 Board Committees was also considered.
These reviews concluded that meetings were held.
These were attended by all Directors with each Committee was operating in an effective manner.
the exception that Jennifer Laing and Sir David Prosser could not The following were Directors of the Company during the year: attend one meeting each.
Ralph Kugler and Jonathan Linen could not attend two meetings each.
Despite being unable to attend Date of original 1 Position appointment meetings, these Directors were provided with all the papers and David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
03 information relevant to those meetings and were able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
03 It is unavoidable that, from time to time, particularly given 2 Richard Hartman President, Europe, the other corporate and international responsibilities of the Middle East and Africa 15.4.
03 very experienced people concerned, individual Non-Executive Stevan Porter President, The Americas 15.4.
03 Directors may be unable to attend a Board meeting.
Any such David Kappler Non-Executive Director and non-attendance is occasional and the Board is satisfied that all Senior Independent Director 21.6.
04 Directors remain committed to their roles and responsibilities.
03 All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 25.8.
05 advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
03 Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 regular business presentations outside Board meetings and Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director 15.4.
At least two Board meetings a year are Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 1.12.07 held overseas.
1 The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, Formal performance evaluations of the Board and the Directors entailed the insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Directors were undertaken during 2007.
An independent third-party serving at that time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
The dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment facilitator assists in the performance evaluation in alternate of each of the Directors to the Groups parent company.
The 2007 evaluation involved such external assistance.
2 Richard Hartman retired as a Director of the Company on 25 September 2007.
The 2007 Board evaluation, including that of the Chairman and the Executive Directors, involved completion of comprehensive Current Directors biographical details are set out on page 26 questionnaires and the Chairman having discussions with each of this Report.
These include their main external commitments.
A number of areas for assessment had been On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction identified in advance of these meetings, and these were used as programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to a framework for the discussions.
introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal Feedback was provided to the Board through a formal report and activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
The Board concluded that it was Ying Yeh, as a Non-Executive Director appointed during the year, operating in an effective manner but identified certain areas to has been invited and intends to participate in such a programme.
which more emphasis might be given.
Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for any Executive Director who may join the Group.
These induction With regard to the performance of individual Directors, as part programmes accord with the guidelines referred to in the of the evaluation process, the Chairman held meetings with each Combined Code.
The updating of all Directors skills and Director and it was concluded that they continue to make an knowledge is a progressive exercise.
This is accomplished at effective contribution to the work of the Board.
All Directors are Board and strategy meetings, through presentations and visits well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by to hotels and other business premises, and through contact the Board, have a good understanding of the Groups businesses with employees at all levels.
and retain a strong commitment to their roles.
Corporate governance 31 Corporate governance continued Chairman Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing professional development during the year and of gaining further David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
insight into the Groups business.
During 2007, visits to operating He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited.
premises, including hotels across the brand portfolio, were During 2007 he became a member of the Appeals Committee of undertaken.
In addition, the training requirements of the the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Non-Executive Directors are kept under review.
The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring the efficient operation of the Board and its Committees, for seeing that Company Secretary corporate governance matters are addressed, and for All Directors have access to the advice and services of the representing the Group externally and communicating particularly Company Secretary, Richard Winter.
He also ensures that Directors receive a full, include ensuring good information flows to the Board and formal and tailored induction to the Group and its businesses and its Committees and between senior management and the that all Directors are fully informed of relevant matters, working Non-Executive Directors.
He facilitates the induction of Directors, closely with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
The the regular updating and refreshing of their skills and knowledge, Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without and he assists them in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance and generally for keeping the Board Chief Executive up to date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive throughout the year.
He also has responsibility for developing the Groups position He has responsibility to recommend to the Board and to on corporate responsibility.
The Company Secretary acts as implement the Groups strategic objectives.
He is responsible secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
for the executive management of the Group.
Andrew Cosslett is Non-Executive Chairman of Duchy Originals Limited.
He Committees receives no remuneration for this role.
The Board is satisfied Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference that this additional commitment has no adverse impact on which have been approved by the Board and which are subject the successful fulfilment of his duties to IHG.
Senior Independent Director Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout significant recent and relevant financial experience and is the year.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise the Committees financial expert.
Throughout 2007, the other with shareholders who have issues to raise and leading the Committee members were Sir David Prosser, Ralph Kugler and performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
The Committee met six times in the year.
Non-Executive Directors These meetings were attended by all Committee members, A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors with the exception that Jennifer Laing and Ralph Kugler could represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
There are not attend one meeting each.
The Audit Committees role is currently seven such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive described on page 35.
Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial experience.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Remuneration Committee meet during the year to consider the Groups business and The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir David Prosser, also management.
comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: David Kappler, Robert C Larson, Jonathan Linen and, from 1 December 2007, Robert C Larson was first appointed to the Board of the Groups Ying Yeh.
It meets at least three times a year.
Its role is described predecessor parent company, Bass PLC, in 1996.
The Committee met six times during the year.
therefore be regarded as having served for over nine years as All Directors who were Committee members throughout the year a Director.
The Combined Code requires such Directors to be attended all these meetings.
Ying Yeh attended the meeting held subject to rigorous performance review, and to be subject to in December 2007 following her appointment.
The formal performance evaluation referred to above has confirmed Mr Larsons valuable contribution during 2007 and he is seeking re-election by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The transformed structure of the Group, and of the parent company Board, since 1996, have ensured that the length of Mr Larsons service has no bearing on his independence.
Mr Larson will be retiring from the Board on 31 December 2008.
32 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THE BOARD, SENIOR THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Nomination Committee Election and re-election of Directors The Nomination Committee comprises any three Non-Executive The Companys Articles provide that only those Directors who Directors although, where possible, all Non-Executive Directors have not been subject to election by shareholders within the last are present.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Its three years, need retire and stand for re-election at the next terms of reference reflect the principal duties proposed as good Annual General Meeting.
In 2008, three Directors fall into this practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
Therefore Andrew Cosslett, David Kappler and Ralph nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment Kugler will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election to the Board.
The Committee generally engages external at the Annual General Meeting on 30 May 2008. consultants to advise on candidates for Board appointments and In addition, Robert C Larson, in accordance with the provisions did so in connection with the appointment of Ying Yeh.
Candidate of the Combined Code, is subject to annual retirement and profiles and objective selection criteria are prepared in advance re-election, if he wishes to continue to serve as a Director.
The Committee also has responsibility for Mr Larson has expressed his wish to continue to serve as a succession planning and assists in identifying and developing the Director until his planned retirement on 31 December 2008 role of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met seven and a resolution to propose his re-election will therefore be times during the year.
Jennifer Laing and Jonathan Linen were put to the Annual General Meeting.
unable to attend one meeting each.
Ralph Kugler was unable to attend two meetings.
Ying Yeh, having been appointed as a Director since the last Annual General Meeting, will also retire and stand for election Executive Committee at the next Annual General Meeting.
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It consists of the Executive Directors and senior executives from the Group The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders and the regions and usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider with this Report, provides further information about the Directors and manage a range of important strategic and business issues standing for election and re-election.
Information on Executive facing the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance Directors service contracts is set out on page 39.
The of the regional Hotels businesses.
It is authorised to approve Non-Executive Chairman and the seven independent capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
It reviews and recommends to the Board the most significant investment proposals.
Independent advice Disclosure Committee There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Groups Financial may take independent professional advice in the furtherance Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other of their duties and they have access to the advice and services senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive and the Finance of the Company Secretary.
Director, and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represents the Groups position in all material respects.
General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an Executive Committee member.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
