Corporate governance continued Shareholder relations The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director give presentations on these results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
The data used in these presentations and conferences may be found at www.
com investors under financial library presentations.
IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with its major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Any new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as a matter of course.
Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Information about the Group is maintained and available to shareholders through the website.
A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations activities.
Further information The terms of reference of all the Committees were reviewed during the year and it was confirmed that they continue to reflect best practice.
Main Committee terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available on request.
Richard Winter Company Secretary 18 February 2008 34 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
