International Power Annual Report 2007 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are committed to high standards of The full Board met seven times during 2007. corporate governance and in this section set Attendance by Directors at these and the Board out how we comply with the principles in the committee meetings held during the year are detailed Combined Code, and explain our reasons for in the table below.
In addition to the Board and committee meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive The Board Directors was held without the Executive Directors In 2007 the effectiveness of the Board was being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also met underpinned by a balance between Executive and without the Chairman being present.
The Board believes that it was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent has the skills and experience necessary to provide Director, and included a review of the Chairmans Al Kamil, effective leadership and control of the Company.
Oman Adri Baan retired from the Board on 31 December Board membership 2007 and, on 1 July 2007, Alan Murray was appointed a Non-Executive Director.
There were no In accordance with the Combined Code and the other changes during the year.
At the end of the year Companys Articles of Association, all Directors the Board comprised of the Chairman Sir Neville submit themselves for re-election every three years Simms, Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark and newly appointed Directors are subject to reWilliamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Bruce election by shareholders at the first AGM after their Levy and four Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, appointment.
In addition, the Board seeks to maintain Alan Murray, John Roberts and Struan Robertson.
a balance between continuity and new blood amongst Sir Neville Simms was considered independent on the Non-Executive Directors.
his appointment as Chairman and the four NonIn accordance with this policy, Adri Baan stepped Executive Directors are considered to be independent.
down as a Non-Executive Director at the end Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent Director.
of 2007 and, following a search carried out by The structure of the Board, following Adri Baans an external agency, Alan Murray was appointed retirement, is not in strict compliance with the to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive 1 July 2007 and will submit himself for re-election Directors is less than the number of Executive at the 2008 AGM.
However, the Directors consider that the In addition Philip Cox, Bruce Levy and Struan Board currently works effectively to carry out its Robertson will submit themselves for re-election duties and that the Non-Executive Directors have a at the 2008 AGM in accordance with the three-year sufficiently strong independent presence at Board re-election policy.
meetings to provide an effective counter balance to the Executive Directors.
The size and structure of the Board is kept under review.
Board Audit Remuneration Appointments seven Committee Committee Committee 1 meetings six meetings four meetings one meeting Sir Neville Simms 7 n a 4 1 Philip Cox 7 n a n a n a Adri Baan 7 5 3 1 Tony Concannon 7 n a n a n a 2 Tony Isaac 66 41 Bruce Levy 7 n a n a n a 3 Alan Murray 33 1 Steve Riley 7 n a n a n a John Roberts 7 5 4 1 Struan Robertson 7 5 4 1 Mark Williamson 7 n a n a n a 1 In 2007 the Audit Committee held three main meetings relating to the preliminary statement, the interim statement and audit planning.
All members of the Committee attended these meetings.
The remainder of the meetings related to quarterly reports and US reporting issues.
2 Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting during 2007 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the Chairman, prior to the meeting.
3 Alan Murray joined the Board on 1 July 2007.
He has attended all Board and committee meetings since that date except one Board meeting and one meeting of the Remuneration Committee which was due to a pre-existing commitment at the time of his appointment.
For both the meetings he missed, he passed his comments on the relevant papers to each of the meetings chairmen, prior to the meetings.
68 Corporate governance Board training Professor Rob Goffee of the London Business School to carry out a performance assessment.
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly The results of the review demonstrated that the appointed Directors receive a comprehensive briefing Board members were satisfied with the operation on the Company, and training is provided for Directors of the Board.
The contribution by individual Directors on their roles and their legal obligations to ensure that to Board and committee meetings was considered they are fully conversant with their responsibilities as to be high.
In accordance with this policy Alan Murray met all the members of the executive management Chairman and Chief Executive Officer team individually, over a period of two days.
In There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head addition he has received guided visits to power of the Company between the roles of the Chairman stations in the UK and the US, so that he has a good KAPCO, and the CEO.
The Chairman is responsible for the understanding of the business of the Company.
A Pakistan leadership and effective operation of the Board, in programme of continuous training is also provided for terms of its agenda, decision making and the the Directors.
Periodically, the Board meets at the site utilisation of the skills and experience of the Directors.
of one of the Groups power stations and briefings are He monitors, with the assistance of the Company also given at Board meetings on particular parts of the Secretary, the information provided to the Board to business, including regional and functional reviews.
In ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
January 2007 the Board visited the Groups business The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that in the Middle East where it met the regional there is effective engagement and communication management team and received a briefing about the with shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for the local business operations.
Directors are also kept overall management of the Company, and leading the informed of changes to the regulatory regime such executive and operational teams in implementing the as the new Companies Act.
All of the Directors have strategies approved by the Board.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to external independent advice Non-Executive Directors and their function should they so wish.
Through membership of the Board committees, the Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for: Insurance overseeing that systems of internal control and risk The Company has in place appropriate insurance management are appropriate and effective: managing cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
the relationship with the external auditor: evaluating Operation of the Board the performance of management in meeting targets and objectives: setting the remuneration of Executive The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, Directors: appointing Executive Directors: and ensuring the successful implementation of approved planning senior management succession.
projects proposals and for the financial policies of the Group.
It also reviews the risk policies and profile of Executive Directors holding the Group.
It maintains a schedule of all matters non-executive directorships requiring specific Board approval.
Throughout 2007 The Company has a policy of encouraging its this included all strategy decisions and significant Executive Directors to hold a non-executive capital investment proposals and acquisitions.
The directorship in another company.
This broadens their Board receives information on capital expenditure experience and helps improve their contributions to projects and investment proposals in advance of Board the Group.
Philip Cox is a Non-Executive Director meetings, as well as management reports on the of Wincanton plc.
His remuneration from this role operational and financial performance of the business.
is retained by him and for the year ended 31 March Financial performance is monitored on a monthly basis 2007 was 48,000.
Similarly, Steve Riley and Mark and the overall performance of the Group is reviewed Williamson are respectively Non-Executive Directors against approved budgets.
At least once a year, the of Shanks Group plc and Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board They are each entitled to retain their remuneration for for review and approval.
Each investment decision is their roles, which was in 2007 28,750 for Steve Riley made in the context of this plan.
The Board has established business values and standards for the Group, which provide a framework Board committees for the Group to balance the interests of all its The Company has established the following stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
The committees: the Audit Committee: the Remuneration business values FIRST are set out on page 96 of Committee: and the Appointments Committee.
The Companys Code of Business addition, the Company has established a Health, Conduct has been formally adopted by the Board Safety and Environment Committee with effect from and is set out on the Companys website.
No person other than a committee includes a whistle-blowing procedure.
member is entitled to attend the meetings of these committees, except at the invitation of the Committee.
In respect of Board performance for 2007, the The full terms of reference for each Committee are Board, following an internal assessment of its available on the Companys website.
performance in 2006, appointed an external facilitator International Power Annual Report 2007 69 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The Committee manages the relationship with the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for external auditor, including fixing the level of the auditors ensuring that the remuneration package of Executive remuneration and the scope and adequacy of the Directors is maintained on a sensible and comparable audit.
The Committee also puts in place policies and basis and enables the Company to compete effectively procedures to ensure that the external auditor remains for good calibre executives.
It monitors the performance independent.
The Committee reviews all financial of Executive Directors against targets, it sets the reports which for the 2006 year end consisted of the performance conditions for long-term incentive plan preliminary statement, Annual Report, Form 20-F, and awards and reviews the remuneration levels and other for 2007, the interim statement and quarterly reports conditions of service of senior managers, immediately including consideration of the Groups accounting below Board level.
Blackstone, policies and major judgemental areas.
The Committee Massachusetts The Committee comprises the independent Nonreviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Executive Directors of the Company and the Chairman.
internal control, and reviews the scope and the annual The Chairman of the Committee up to 30 September plan of the internal audit function and satisfies itself of 2007, was Adri Baan, and from 1 October 2007 it was its adequacy, particularly in terms of resources and its John Roberts.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary performance against its annual plan.
In addition it to the Committee and the director of global resources reviews the report prepared by the Risk Committee to acts as adviser to the Committee.
In 2007, following ensure all relevant risks are addressed in these external a formal review, Towers Perrin was re-appointed as and internal audit processes.
external adviser to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Groups Sarbanes-Oxley Appointments Committee compliance programme for 2006 during 2007 to ensure that the Groups internal control system and The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters of management succession and the safeguards were such that they complied with the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
identification and appointment of Directors.
It also reviews the Board structure, size and composition, and Following the introduction of the Transparency makes recommendations to the Board with regard to Directive, the Audit Committee approved the Company changes that are deemed desirable.
The Committee replacing its quarterly financial reports with Interim comprises the Chairman and all of the independent Management Statements IMS.
The first period which Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The will be reported through an IMS will be the three Chairman of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
During 2007 the Audit Committee comprised all Health, Safety and Environment Committee the independent Non-Executive Directors of the The HS&E Committee has been established with effect Company.
The Audit Committee Chairman was from 1 January 2008.
It is responsible for reviewing the Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Groups HS&E policies, objectives and performance.
of Management Accountants and, before becoming The Committee is chaired by Struan Robertson and Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc, was its Group also comprises one other Non-Executive Director and Finance Director.
The Company Secretary acts as the CEO.
In addition the director of operations and secretary to the Committee.
Following the finalisation engineering will attend meetings of the Committee.
The of the 2007 accounts, Tony Isaac has stepped down Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
and Alan Murray has taken over as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders Time was set aside for the Committee to meet The Board is accountable to shareholders for the the external auditor and the head of internal audit performance and activities of the Group.
International without executive management present.
In addition Power ensures that its AGM provides shareholders to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at with an opportunity to receive comprehensive the Audit Committee meetings included representatives information on all aspects of the Groups business of the external auditor, the Chairman, the CEO, the activities and to question senior management about CFO, other Executive Directors, the Group controller business issues and prospects.
and the head of internal audit.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution is reported at the AGM and on the Companys website.
In line with best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
70 Corporate governance International Power also runs, within the terms of the Internal control regulatory framework, frequent contact programmes The Board has responsibility for the Groups system with industry analysts and institutional investors to of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing discuss matters of strategy and financial performance.
Contact is made principally by the CEO and the CFO.
Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the On issues of major importance the Chairman Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance.
Following the communicates with major shareholders.
The Senior Company deregistering from its registration with the Independent Non-Executive Director Tony Isaac is SEC in the US it is no longer required to comply with also available as an alternative point of contact if the terms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
However, it has shareholders have concerns over the Chairmans implemented procedures and systems deriving from performance or where contact with the Chairman or that compliance programme to ensure key controls the use of other communication channels would be are embedded into the internal control framework.
At each Board meeting, an update is given on movements in major shareholdings and on Any system of internal control is designed to manage, contact programmes between the Executive Directors rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve and institutional shareholders.
Reports issued by business objectives.
The system can only provide financial analysts on the Company are circulated to reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Board members.
These reports enable the Directors to material financial misstatement or loss.
The Board gain an understanding of the views and opinions of reviewed the effectiveness of internal control those with an interest in the Company.
The principal features presentations and Stock Exchange announcements are of the Groups systems of internal control are: available to shareholders on the Companys website.
Control environment During 2007 the Company implemented the The Board encourages a culture of integrity and provisions approved by shareholders at the 2007 openness.
The Group has an organisational structure AGM that allow for all shareholder documents to be with clear lines of accountability and authority across provided electronically unless otherwise requested by its worldwide operations, supported by appropriate the shareholder.
To ensure all shareholders are kept reporting procedures.
Each of the regional businesses informed of the Companys performance for 2007, all is accountable to the CEO and is managed within the the shareholders who did not elect to receive a hard strategic guidelines and delegated authorities adopted copy of the Annual Report will receive a highlights by the Board.
An executive management team, report.
This balances the Companys desire to reduce chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive its costs and impact on the environment and, on the Directors, regional directors and functional heads, other hand, keeps shareholders informed of the meets regularly to discuss issues facing the Group.
In addition, during 2007, the Companys CEO and CFO met with representatives Control procedures of the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
Control procedures have been established in each of the Groups operations to safeguard the Groups Accountability and audit assets from loss or misuse and to ensure appropriate The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
a balanced and understandable assessment of All acquisition and investment decisions are subject International Powers financial position and prospects, to disciplined investment appraisal processes.
Risk both to investors and regulatory authorities.
management procedures are in place for the Groups The Annual Report, preliminary and interim results operations, including its energy marketing and trading announcements, and IMS are the principal means activities, which are overseen by the Global of achieving this objective.
Commodities Risk Committee, which comprises An explanation of the respective responsibilities of Executive Directors and senior management, and the Directors and external auditor in connection with is chaired by the global risk manager.
The Group the financial statements is set out in the Statement of treasury function operates under defined policies Directors responsibilities.
The Directors confirm in and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, chaired the Directors report their view that the Group is a by the CFO.
Performance reporting and information The Audit Committee has a process in place to Corporate plan Executive management submits an approve all non-audit services provided by the annual corporate plan to the Board for approval.
The external auditor to ensure that the objectivity and plan for each business unit is the quantified assessment independence of the external auditor is not of its planned operating and financial performance for compromised.
Our procedures specify the services the next financial year, together with strategic reviews from which the external auditor is excluded and the for the following four years.
Group management approval process for all other services.
reviews the plans with each operational team.
The individual plans are based on key economic and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk and sensitivities underlying the projections.
International Power Annual Report 2007 71 Performance monitoring Monthly performance and and confirm that programmes are in place to address financial reports are produced for each business unit, any weaknesses in internal control.
The certification with comparisons to budget.
Reports are consolidated process embraces all areas of material risk.
The internal for overall review by executive management, together audit department reviews the statements on behalf of with forecasts for the income statement and cash the Disclosure Committee and reports any significant flow.
Detailed reports are presented to the Board issues to the Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Combined Code Performance review Each business unit is subject to There were two areas where the Board was not fully regular performance reviews with Group management compliant with the requirements of the revised during the year.
Actual results and forecasts for the year Combined Code throughout 2007.
Up to the are compared to budget.
Key operational and financial Tihama, appointment of Alan Murray as a Non-Executive results are reviewed together with the risk profile and Saudi Arabia Director on 1 July 2007, there were more Executive business environment of the reporting unit.
Directors than Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
This is again the case following the retirement of Adri Investment projects These are subject to formal review and authorisation procedures with designated Baan as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December levels of authority, including a review by an Investment 2007.
The Board has reviewed the structure of the Committee chaired by the CEO and comprising the Board and has concluded there is no need at this time Executive Directors and senior managers.
Major to appoint another Non-Executive Director.
projects are subject to Board review and approval.
The Senior Independent Director does not have a Further information on our investment process contact programme to communicate with institutional is available in our Group overview on pages 12 investors, primarily to avoid potential confusion over and 13. channels of communication.
During 2007 no institutional Corporate reporting The Company has a Disclosure shareholder has requested such communication.
Committee which is chaired by the Company In all other respects, the Company has complied with Secretary and is comprised of members from the the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the internal audit, corporate communications, global period of the review.
resources, operations and engineering, company secretariat and financial reporting departments.
It US corporate governance compliance reviews the Annual Report and the Summary Annual During 2006 the Group was required to comply with Report, and in 2007 reviewed the 2006 Form 20-F. the rules relating to its system of internal controls over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Risk identification and management Act 2002.
These arrangements were audited by KPMG As outlined in the section Our approach to risk and who provided an audit opinion that the Group had met risk management there is a continuous process for the required standards in respect of the Form 20-F for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks the year ended 31 December 2006.
On 28 June 2007, faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the the Board decided to delist from the New York Stock Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and Exchange NYSE as the ADR facility listed on the NYSE has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for only accounted for around 1% of the annual share ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and trading volume of shares in the Company.
It decided to assessing significant risks, that appropriate control deregister from the SEC due to the extra costs required systems and other mitigating actions are in place, to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Board and that residual exposures are consistent with the is satisfied that the Groups financial reporting controls Group strategy and objectives.
Monitoring Guiding philosophy The Board reviews the effectiveness of established Our business culture is underpinned by our core internal controls through the Audit Committee which values which form the guiding philosophy for receives reports from management, the Risk everyone within International Power.
Our corporate Committee, the Groups internal audit function and values were set, reviewed and refreshed by the external auditor on the systems of internal control representatives from our businesses and regional and risk management arrangements.
They are: The internal audit department reviews the Financial discipline effectiveness of internal controls and risk management through a work programme which is Integrity of communication based on the Groups objectives and risk profile and is Respect for the individual agreed with the Audit Committee.
Findings are Safe behaviour reported to operational and executive management and the Audit Committee.
Business unit managers provide annual self-certification More details are set out on page 96. statements of compliance with procedures.
These statements give assurance that controls are in operation
