Directors report Corporate governance The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining high The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and to an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings by individual directors during the year is set out in the table below.
The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority which require the Company, Board Audit Remuneration Nomination amongst other things, to make a statement on whether it has Number of Meetings 15 6 11 2 complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions G P Balfour 15 5 11 2 set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Lord Blackwell 15 - 11 2 Governance, published by the Financial Reporting Council in L G Cullen 13 6 10 2 June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Company must also T C Jones 15 - - - provide an explanation of how it has applied the principles N F Keegan 15 6 10 2 set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code to enable its A M Ringrose 15 - - 2 shareholders to evaluate how the principles have been D A Trapnell 13 5 11 1 applied.
Where the Company has not complied with the J H Vyse 15 - - - Combined Code provisions it must specify those which it has not complied with and where relevant for what part of the Mr Balfour is a director of Interserve Trustees Limited, the accounting period such non-compliance continued, giving corporate trustee of the Interserve Pension Scheme and takes reasons for any non-compliance.
no part in Board consideration of any key pension issues.
The directors consider that the Company has complied with The Group Chairman held three meetings with the non-executive the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the directors during the course of the year, without the executive accounting period ended 31 December 2007. directors being present.
The non-executive directors also met twice during the year, under the chairmanship of Mr Balfour, Directors without either the Group Chairman or the executive directors The Board being present.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and core values including the creation, acquisition or disposal of The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors corporate entities and material assets: financial reporting: and officers insurance in respect of legal actions against the approval of annual budgets: the Groups finance, banking and directors.
The insurance does not provide cover where the capital arrangements: Stock Exchange Listing Rules director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Companies Act matters: material contracts and contracts otherwise than in the normal course of business of the Chairman and Chief Executive Company and its subsidiaries: matters which could affect the The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split Groups reputation: employee issues and key appointments: and clearly defined.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the risk management strategy including internal controls and Group leadership of the Board and creating the conditions for overall insurances: health and safety: defence and settlement of Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and material litigation: and social, environmental and ethical outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is responsible for matters.
It also has oversight of the Groups operations.
These running the Groups business.
responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has ensures that Board members, especially the non-executive delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details of directors, receive timely information and are briefed on issues which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an effective Board also establishes certain other committees with defined contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible for terms of reference to deal with a specific issue which the Board disseminating Board papers, which are normally circulated in has approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of a business.
advance of each meeting, presenting certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on Board procedures and Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising ensuring the Board follows them.
at 31 December 2007 the executive directors, the senior executives Mr S L Dance, Mr B A Melizan, Mr B W Spencer and The Board has concluded that Lord Blackwell was independent Mr D I Sutherland, and the Company Secretary.
upon appointment on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and continues to be so.
38 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Corporate governance continued Board balance and independence involvement with the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination During 2007, the Board, which operates as a single team, Committees.
Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman comprised three executive directors, four non-executive are required to confirm, on appointment, that they have directors and the Group Chairman.
The individual directors sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and to seek have different skills, experience and qualifications in other the Committee Chairmans agreement, or in the case of the sectors of the economy and are able to bring independent Group Chairman, the Senior Independent Directors agreement, judgement to bear on matters for consideration by the Board.
before accepting additional commitments that might impact upon the time they are able to devote to their role as a non-executive director of the Company.
The Board considers each non-executive director to be independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and Information and professional development free from any relationships or circumstances which are The Board papers include information from management on likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
financial, business and corporate issues to enable the directors Furthermore, the Board considers its non-executive directors to be properly briefed on issues to be considered at Board to be of sufficient calibre and number that their views may be meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee approval expected to be of sufficient weight that no individual or small are generally the subject of a proposal formulated by the group can dominate the Boards decision-making processes.
executive directors and circulated, together with supporting information, as part of the Board papers.
On 10 January 2008, Steven Dance and Bruce Melizan were appointed to the Board as executive directors.
Having taken The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial into account the independence of the Group Chairman and all results, cash flows and projections to the Board on a monthly the non-executive directors, the benefits of having both a basis.
Forecasts of prospective financial performance are prepared strong executive and non-executive presence on the Board, in May and September of each year.
Monthly and year-to-date the importance to the businesses of having representation at financial performance is compared with budgets approved by the Board level and the Chairmans casting vote in the event of Board prior to the commencement of each financial year and equality of voting at Board meetings, it was considered that against the May and September forecasts of the year end financial the balance between executive and non-executive directors performance.
The financial summaries are accompanied by a would not be adversely affected by these two appointments.
written report explaining operating and financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from the agreed budgets and Mr Balfour, as Senior Independent Director, is available to forecasts and other information that may be relevant from time shareholders should they have any concerns which contact to time.
Monthly written divisional trading reports on the through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such performance of each division are provided as part of the Board contact may be inappropriate.
Those members of the Executive Committee who are not Board directors attend that part of each Board meeting Appointments to the Board dedicated to management and financial reporting, during which Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the health, safety and environmental matters are discussed, and Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, present their reports and respond to any matters concerning who is chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive and all their division raised by the Board.
They also attend the relevant the non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary is secretary part of the Board meeting at which trading updates are considered to the Committee.
The Committee has its own terms of reference and the annual budget and plans are presented for approval which deal clearly with its authority and duties, and which are and adoption.
available on the Companys website at www.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider The Board also receives monthly reports, quarterly summaries and review the structure, size, composition and balance of and an annual report from the Group Health, Safety and skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and to make Environmental Manager covering the Company and its recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
subsidiaries health and safety performance, periodic The Committee is responsible for the supervision of the environmental reports and an annual presentation covering recruitment process of potential Board appointees, considering both performance during the past year and targets for the any candidates who are put forward by the directors and forthcoming year.
The Board also receives quarterly written external consultants and recommending to the Board the reports from the Group Insurance Manager and Group General appointment of all directors after having interviewed Counsel, covering any matters of significance, and on HR shortlisted candidates.
It is also responsible for making matters within the divisional trading reports.
recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any director retiring by rotation.
On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme given by the Company Secretary during which they The terms and conditions of appointment of all the receive information about the Company, the role of the Board non-executive directors and those of the Group Chairman are and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of available for inspection at the Companys registered office reference and membership of the Board and its committees, during normal business hours.
Each letter of appointment the powers delegated to those committees, the Companys specifies the anticipated level of time commitment including, corporate governance practices and procedures, including the where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from powers reserved to the Groups most senior executives, and Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 39 Directors report Corporate governance continued the latest financial information.
In addition to this, visits to directors, including those subject to re-election, are set out certain of the Groups operations are undertaken in order for on pages 8 and 9 of this Annual report and financial the new directors to gain an appreciation of, and familiarise statements to enable shareholders to take an informed themselves with, the business of the Group.
There is also in decision on any re-election.
place an ongoing programme of site visits by the Group Chairman, which also provides opportunities for the other Remuneration non-executive directors to visit various of the Groups operations.
The level and make-up of remuneration The Group Chairman also held a number of lunchtime meetings The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of with invited managers from across the Company and its UK independent non-executive directors, was chaired by subsidiaries at which managers can discuss their work and talk Mr Trapnell.
The names of the Committee members are set out freely about any issues of concern.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors The Company Secretary keeps the directors informed of remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out in appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses and the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 55. makes the necessary arrangements for their attendance.
Accountability and audit Each of the directors attended one of a number of half-day Financial reporting director training seminars provided for the directors and The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable officers of all of the Group companies within the UK a DVD of assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses the which was made available to all remaining directors of Group Chairmans statement, the detailed reviews of the performance companies together with a further briefing session for listed and financial position of the Companys operations included company directors.
Most non-executive directors also attended in the Directors report to assist with this.
The directors one or more briefings or seminars relevant to their role during responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements the year under review.
and notes and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are described on pages 56 and 57, Throughout their period in office the directors are updated respectively, of this Annual report and financial statements.
on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have formed a Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of their and notes, that there is a reasonable expectation that the duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in Company has adequate resources to continue in operational relation to any one event.
In the case of the Group Chairman existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they he must consult with the Senior Independent Director.
All continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the directors have access to the advice and services of the financial statements and notes.
Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly delegated Internal control committee thereof.
The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, including risk management, and sets appropriate policies Performance evaluation having regard to the objectives of the Group.
During 2007, the performance of the directors was appraised by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive and, in the The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification case of the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, having and evaluation for consideration by the Board of risks faced by consulted with the other directors.
The Group Chairmans the Group and for designing, operating and monitoring a performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director, suitable system of internal control embracing the policies with feedback being provided as appropriate from the remainder adopted by the Board.
The Board also conducted an evaluation of its own performance, that of its committees, and reviewed its The principal features of the system of internal control are: procedures and the matters reserved for its decision.
An established management structure comprising the Board Re-election with its various committees and an Executive Committee.
All directors are required by the Companys Articles of The Executive Committee is responsible for the operational Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM management and delivery against budget and forecast of following their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
the Group, implementing resolutions of the Board, Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and may offer formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not more proposals for consideration by the Board and devising and than three years.
The Board typically expects non-executive implementing suitable policies and procedures for health directors to serve two three-year terms, although a and safety, environmental, social and ethical, treasury, non-executive director may be invited to serve one additional human resources and information technology.
Should this be the case the non-executive director concerned would be expected to retire annually and The Board receives comprehensive monthly reports offer himself for re-election.
Biographical details of all the comparing performance against the annual budget and 40 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Corporate governance continued periodic forecasts.
Each division prepares monthly trading Audit Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the reports except January with a comparison against budget processes established to control the business and to assist or forecast, together with certain key performance the Board in meeting its objectives and discharging its indicators.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a responsibilities.
whole and determines appropriate action.
One or more members of the Executive Committee and, in most cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Documented delegated authority limits relating to Finance Director attend each of the monthly divisional expenditure which is kept under regular review by the board meetings.
Larger value proposals and business acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
During the course of each year members of the Executive Committee or other senior operational and financial A PFI Committee with authority to execute contractual management visit all trading companies, including those documentation for PFI projects where prior approval of located overseas, to discuss and monitor performance of the Board has been given to participation in a particular those businesses.
PFI project, and which reports its actions to the Board.
The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy which was A Risk Committee, comprising the Chief Executive, Group reviewed in December 2006 and re-launched in January Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group 2007 and has instituted a Group response plan to set out Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group a framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, Insurance Manager, the Company Secretary who is its financial misreporting and any whistle-blowing notification.
secretary and a representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
The Risk Committee meets at least An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the four times a year, has written terms of reference and significant risks faced by all companies within the Group has provides copies of its meeting minutes to the Board.
been in place for the period under review and until the date of approval of this Annual report and financial statements.
A General Purposes Committee, comprising any two There is also an ongoing process to embed internal control and executive directors one of whom shall be the Chief risk management further into the operations of the businesses, Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director, to deal with areas of improvement which are identified from with written terms of reference, which exercises certain time to time and to derive the maximum benefit to the powers of the Board delegated to it and reports upon its business through the use of risk management procedures.
Internal controls are normally reviewed in September and An Inside Information Committee, comprising the Group March by the Board, which accords with the Revised Guidance Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Financial with written terms of reference, which is empowered to Reporting Council in October 2005. assess quickly if information is inside information, release inside information to the regulatory information service Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system in the event that it is not possible to convene a Board of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is meeting at very short notice and is responsible for setting designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to up and monitoring the systems and controls with regard to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, inside information.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and system of internal control for the period under review and operating procedures, with which all Group companies has neither identified nor been advised of any failings or must comply.
These manuals set out the necessary levels weaknesses which it has determined to be significant within of authorisation applicable for different transactions.
contemplation of the Combined Code.
A risk management policy document including the Boards Audit Committee and auditors own risk management matrix as part of the Groups The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the internal controls manual.
integrity of the Company and Groups financial reporting and audit process, provide an independent overview of risk The Group has certain key areas which are subject to management and internal control processes and make central management or control, which include Company recommendations to the Board.
In fulfilling this role the and subsidiary health, safety and environmental, legal, Committee oversees relations with the external auditors and insurance, treasury and company secretarial.
These reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
functions report to executive directors and operate within defined limits and levels of authority.
The Audit Committee, composed entirely of independent non-executive directors, was chaired by Mr Keegan until An internal audit function, currently co-sourced with 15 October 2007 and thereafter by Mr Cullen.
The names of  LLP, whose responsibility is to the Committee members are set out in the table on page 38. provide an objective appraisal to the Board, through the Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 41 Directors report Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, dealing Upon the Audit Committees recommendation, the Board clearly with its authority and duties, which are available on appointed  LLP on 9 February 2007 the Companys website at www.
com and on to work as part of a co-sourced internal audit function.
These require at least one financially qualified Committee agreed an internal audit work plan for 2007, which member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of included an assessment of managements responses to the Accountancy Bodies.
The past and present chairmen of the internal auditors findings and recommendations, and against Committee fulfil this requirement.
Two members of the which periodic reports were provided.
In addition, the Committee constitute a quorum.
Appointments to the Committee received reports on a Group-wide risk culture Committee are made by the Board, on the recommendation survey, fraud risk review and financial controls health check.
of the Nomination Committee, in consultation with the The Committee also monitored the role and effectiveness of Committee Chairman.
the internal audit function in the context of the Company and the Groups overall risk management system.
The Audit Committee is required to meet at least four times a year to coincide with the key dates in the Companys reporting The Audit Committee has, during the 2007 financial year, cycle and formulates an annual calendar of actions to assist reviewed its terms of reference as part of its annual review it in discharging its duties.
The external auditors were present of its own effectiveness and concluded that the Committee at three meetings and the Group Internal Audit Manager and remained effective.
representatives from  LLP, as part of the co-sourced internal audit function, were present at four The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the work and three of the meetings, respectively.
The Group Chairman, carried out, including any improvement actions required.
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director attended Copies of the minutes of Committee meetings are also the meetings by invitation, as did Mr Vyse on one occasion.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views of the Relations with shareholders external and internal auditors in private and both the external Dialogue with institutional shareholders and internal auditors have the opportunity to address the The Company encourages two-way communication with both Committee in private at any time should they so wish.
The Chief Executive, accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended 55 In fulfilling its responsibility for reviewing the integrity of meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year the Companys financial reports to its shareholders, the ended 31 December 2007.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Committee evaluated whether they provide a true and fair Group Finance Director attended a further 8 and 19 meetings view, considered the appropriateness and consistency of each, respectively, accompanied by another member of staff.
application of accounting policies adopted in their preparation and assessed the basis of any major judgements and estimates.
The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to As part of this review the Committee received a report from produce a note of the feedback from institutional investors the external auditors on their audit of the annual report and which is reported upon at the next meeting of the Board.
financial statements and a review of the half-yearly report.
All directors and the members of the Executive Committee also have the opportunity to attend analyst briefings.
The Audit Committee evaluated the external auditors performance, reviewed and approved the external auditors Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs terms of engagement, the scope of the year-end audit and the through the annual and half-yearly reports, trading updates half-yearly review together with the fees for undertaking these and, increasingly, the Companys website.
and made a recommendation to the Board as regards their re-appointment.
It reviewed auditor independence and Constructive use of AGM objectivity, the effectiveness of the external audit process at All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the end of the audit cycle and received a report from the the AGM, at which all directors and committee chairmen are external auditors describing their safeguards, procedures and introduced and are available for questions.
independence policies designed to counter the threats or perceived threats to their objectivity.
To assist with its review of auditor independence, the Committee has a policy for the award of non-audit work to the external auditors comprising a set of authority limits in relation to various categories of work.
After receiving four reports during the course of the year upon and reviewing the actual fees incurred in respect of non-audit work for the Group during 2007, the Committee concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees did not compromise auditor independence.
Further details of the auditors fees are included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 70.
