Corporate Governance Report Introduction Board management The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance During the year the Board consisted of the Chairman Vanni Treves, and this report outlines its compliance with the provisions of the the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Richard Nelson, the Chief revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Executive Officer Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Financial Officer Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
During 2007, Bill Spencer, Raymond Kong, a Non-Executive Director who retired the Group complied with almost all of the provisions of the Code.
on 11 May 2007, and three independent Non-Executive Directors, The areas of non-compliance are as follows, and are further discussed David Allvey, who is also the Senior Independent Director, and explained below: Debra Rade and Christopher Knight.
Mark Loughead was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2008, as Chief Operating Officer.
the Board did not comprise at least half independent The Directors biographies appear on page 31.
The Senior Non-Executive Directors for the whole of the year: and Independent Director is readily available to shareholders if they the membership of the Audit and Risk Committee and the have concerns that remain unresolved after contacting the Group Remuneration Committee each included two independent through the usual channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors instead of three.
or Chief Financial Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a proposed The Board is accountable to shareholders for good corporate action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles as a matter of course.
of governance have been applied.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman The Board and the Chief Executive Officer and they have been set out in An effective Board, which provides entrepreneurial leadership and writing and approved by the Board.
On appointment to the Board controls the Group, is in place.
The Boards main roles are to create in May 2002, the Chairman met the independence criteria as set value for shareholders, to lead the Group, to approve the Groups out in the Code.
strategic objectives and to ensure that the appropriate financial and other resources as required are made available to enable it to meet The responsibilities of Vanni Treves as Chairman include those those objectives.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the contained in the supporting principle to paragraph A.
2 of the Code, proper management of the Group.
All Directors have a wide range of namely leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to bear on aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective There were nine scheduled Board meetings held in 2007.
There was, contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in particular: in addition, frequent informal contact between Directors to discuss and ensuring constructive relationships between the Executive and the Groups affairs and develop its business.
Directors attendance at Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans other main commitments Board meetings is shown in the table on page 33.
Also, on several are detailed in his biography on page 31.
The Chief Executive occasions, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational have also had discussions without the Chairman being present.
Board matrix David Allvey, Debra Rade and Christopher Knight are clearly The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject independent Non-Executive Directors as they have been Directors to regular reporting to the Board, so that the performance of for less than nine years, were never employed by the Group and management can be reviewed and monitored.
A Board matrix is have no material relationships or links to the business which would in place which formally outlines the matters specifically requiring compromise their independence.
Richard Nelson and Raymond the consent of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the approval Kong were not considered to be independent in their positions of the Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, respectively, because of their previous service as executives in the substantial capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, Group.
However, during the year Richard Nelson and Raymond the recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury Kong, until his retirement in May 2007, brought valuable expertise and risk management policies.
The Board matrix was reviewed, to the Board through their extensive knowledge of the business amended and approved by the Board during 2007. and industry.
The Board matrix also identifies areas where executive management The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure can grant approval subject to certain financial limits.
Where any that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully of the activities involve amounts greater than those limits they are discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term referred to the Board.
The Board matrix is communicated to all senior interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper management to ensure that throughout the Group it is known account of the interests of customers, employees and other when Board approval is required.
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no one individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
32 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 The Code requires that half of the Board comprises independent Board Committees Non-Executive Directors.
After the retirement of Raymond Kong on The Board has established three Committees, each with clearly defined 11 May 2007, the Board, excluding the Chairman, met this terms of reference, procedures and powers.
These terms of reference requirement.
However, following the appointment of Mark Loughead are available on request from the Group Company Secretary at the to the Board on 1 January 2008 independent Directors now represent registered office or can be downloaded from www.
Nevertheless, the Board believes that its The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended current composition, taking into account the overall balance of by each Director during the year was as follows: skills, knowledge, commitment and experience, results in an efficient Scheduled Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration and effective board operation, whilst maintaining an appropriate Board Committee Committee Committee balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Name Position meetings meetings meetings meetings Vanni Treves To enable them to discharge their duties, all Directors have full and Chairman 9 9 4 4 2 2 8 8 timely access to all relevant information.
Papers are circulated well before the Board and Committee meetings to ensure that Directors Richard Nelson have the necessary time to read and review them.
The Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management accounts and regular Deputy Chairman 8 9 n a n a n a management reports and information which enable them to scrutinise Wolfhart Hauser the Groups and managements performance against agreed Chief Executive Officer 9 9 n a n a n a objectives and prior performance.
Bill Spencer A formal induction programme has been established for new Directors, Chief Financial Officer 9 9 n a n a n a tailored to suit the individuals previous experience.
Ongoing training David Allvey is provided to Directors as necessary and visits to sites arranged Senior Independent to further their knowledge of the Groups operations.
Directors are Non-Executive Director 8 9 4 4 2 2 8 8 regularly briefed on changes to legislation and best practice.
Debra Rade Independent All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Non-Executive Director 9 9 n a n a n a Company Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional training and information as required.
The appointment and removal Christopher Knight of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Independent Non-Executive Director 9 9 4 4 2 2 8 8 All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, Raymond Kong at the Groups expense, in the performance of their duties as Non-Executive Director Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Insurance retired 11 May 2007 3 3 n a n a n a cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves the performance of the business and enhances shareholder value.
Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the During its meetings in 2007, the Board received and discussed period during which the relevant individual was a Director or the Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officers reports, Committee member.
market reports, share trading reports, analysts forecasts, potential acquisitions, litigation reports, claims and risk reports, final and Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set out below.
interim dividend recommendations, potential contract bids, road show and investor feedback, divisional budgets, marketing The Remuneration Committee initiatives, treasury policy, Annual and Interim Reports and This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, announcements and a wide range of other issues.
David Allvey Chairman, Vanni Treves and Christopher Knight.
The Code requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors whilst allowing the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, if considered independent on appointment, to be a member.
The Committee, therefore, does not currently comply with the Code.
During 2007, the Remuneration Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of additional benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including pension rights and any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee is also responsible for the implementation and operation of employee share incentive arrangements.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 33 Corporate Governance Report Continued During 2007, the Remuneration Committee met eight times.
The Groups auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial At those meetings the Committee discussed, amongst other things, Officer, Vice President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk the financial status and investment strategy of the Companys UK Management and Internal Audit, usually attend Committee final salary pension scheme, determined bonus awards for 2006 meetings.
The Groups auditors meet with the members of the and bonus targets for 2007, determined salary increases for senior Audit and Risk Committee alone at least once a year.
members of the executive team, determined the criteria for awards made under the 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan, and approved the The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued annual Remuneration Report.
independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors.
A policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditors has Details of the Groups remuneration for Executive Directors and details been approved by the Board to ensure that auditors objectivity and of benefits, share options, pension entitlements, service contracts independence are safeguarded.
To this end, the policy highlights and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration Report those areas where the external auditor cannot provide services to on pages 39 to 46. the Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group management functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal advice The Nomination Committee and recruitment and remuneration advice.
As a reassurance, the This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, auditors confirm by way of letter to the Board that processes to Vanni Treves Chairman, David Allvey and Christopher Knight.
ensure compliance with this policy are in place, and that these During 2007, this Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed processes are monitored regularly.
A detailed breakdown of that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Code.
the year is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
This Committee, which met twice during the year, nominates At its meetings during 2007, the Committee reviewed and endorsed, candidates to fill board vacancies, reviews the talent mapping and prior to submission to the Board, the Groups 2006 Annual Report, succession planning for the Board and senior management and 2007 Interim Report and results announcements.
The Committee makes recommendations on the balance and composition of the also monitored and reviewed the standards and effectiveness of Board.
Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge risk management and internal control, the Groups internal audit and experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any function and its plans and performance.
It also reviewed the new Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed, Groups arrangements for the avoidance and detection of fraud the Committee requires confirmation that he or she can devote and related matters, whistle blowing and hotlines, compliance, sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of the role.
The terms and training, e-learning, quality assurance systems and substantial claims conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available affecting the Company.
for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Report and the Interim Report remains with the Board.
All new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and then During 2007, the Audit and Risk Committee met four times.
The subject to re-election by shareholders once every three years.
Chairman and other Committee members also attend meetings held twice a year with the external auditors and management The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the to discuss any accounting issues associated with the annual audit Remuneration Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee Performance evaluation This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, A stringent performance evaluation process led by the Chairman David Allvey Chairman, Vanni Treves and Christopher Knight.
is applied to each Director, Committee and the Board as a whole.
The Code requires the Audit and Risk Committee to have at least This comprises a series of detailed questionnaires which provide three independent Non-Executive Directors.
As Chairman of the a framework for the evaluation process, and provides the Chairman Company, Vanni Treves is not viewed as independent by the Code with a means of making year-on-year comparisons.
There are and therefore the Committee does not currently comply with the questionnaires for each of the following: the Board: each individual Code.
During 2007, the Audit and Risk Committee was evaluated Director: and the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit and Risk and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was Committees.
David Allvey and Christopher Knight have recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in their This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its biographies on page 31.
Committees ensures that the performance of each individual Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups each Committee are properly measured and debated.
financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control, the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group and the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
It reviews the progress of internal audit activity against the annual plan, and reviews the strategy, scope and approach of the internal audit and compliance teams.
It reviews the corrective action taken by management to address any control issues identified by the internal audit and compliance function.
It is responsible for approving the appointment and termination of the Vice President Risk Management and Internal Audit and meets with him at least once a year without management present.
34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director, The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard to breaches of taking into account discussions with other Directors.
The Senior ethics and all employees are required to sign a certificate confirming Independent Director has discussions with the other Executive their understanding that any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman being present, will result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal in order to appraise the Chairmans performance during the year.
To support Group policies and to facilitate For the year under review these assessments concluded that the the raising of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of performance of the Board and each Director was and is effective financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides and and that all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective publicises independently managed email and telephone hotlines roles to the Company evidenced, inter alia, by the Board and so that staff may report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical Committee attendance records set out in this report.
further demonstrate that the Board has an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add value to the overall effectiveness and In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee endeavours success of the Group, and that no substantial issues have arisen to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and out of the evaluation process.
effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
After a rigorous review of performance and in view of their continued robust contribution and commitment to the Board, Vanni Treves and Each operating division is responsible for the identification and David Allvey are to continue in their roles on the Board for a third evaluation of significant risks applicable to that area of business, three-year term, subject to re-election at the AGM in accordance with together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control The Remuneration, Nomination, and Audit and Risk Committees breakdowns, disruption of information systems, competition, natural each also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Operation of the controls the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or of its consequences.
The reviews concluded that each Committee was operating in an efficient and effective manner.
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides a documented trail of The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in accountability.
These procedures are applied across Group operations order to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its and provide for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly performance and that of its individual members and Committees.
higher levels of management and finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as to Internal control the operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
Planned The Groups primary business objectives require adherence to local, corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
national and international laws and insist that the Groups employees show integrity and honesty in all business dealings.
Each division reports annually to the Audit and Risk Committee via Risk management and internal controls are therefore embedded the Chief Financial Officer on its review of risks and how they are in the running of each division, assuring the accuracy and validity managed.
Each year senior managers throughout the Group confirm of reports and certificates that the Group provides to customers.
the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, compliance with Although the Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing Group policies, local laws and regulations and report any control and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and weaknesses identified in the past year.
One of the Audit and Risk for reviewing its effectiveness, such a system can realistically Committees main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key only manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance to ensure such risks are properly managed.
against material misstatement or loss.
The Chief Financial Officer heads a central compliance team, which The Board can confirm that, in addition to internal audits, there is co-ordinates the quality assurance function.
Quality assurance an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any audits are carried out by the divisions, and the findings reported significant risks to the Groups short and long-term value, including to divisional management and to compliance officers.
Each division those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
has at least one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes This process has been in place for the year under review, and up investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is regularly reviewed audits or by other means, such as the employee hotline.
Reports of by the Board, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
No material significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
breaches of any internal controls were identified during the year.
Each geographic region has at least one internal auditor who is In carrying out the risk review, the Board is satisfied that it received independent of the divisions.
The main reporting sites are reviewed adequate information from the operations around the world.
The other sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based Training is provided to Directors on these matters where necessary.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and it monitors and reviews the The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit system of financial and non-financial internal control during the department was awarded ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation in 2003 year.
In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve and was re-accredited in 2007. the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
This is reinforced by the Code of Ethics, which provides practical guidance and instruction for staff.
A copy of this Code is available at www.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 35 Corporate Governance Report Continued The Group will, from time-to-time, be required by its customers Going concern to operate in countries where there is potential political and After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable economic risk.
In doing so, the Group fulfils its policy of facilitating expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in international trade inspection and audit services that help to operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue prevent corruption and assist with humanitarian aid.
Where there to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial are no laws in place that prohibit business dealings in certain countries, statements.
the Group will consider operating in those countries, but only in strict accordance with its stringent Code of Ethics.
Corporate social responsibility The Board welcomes the Groups responsibility to act ethically in The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the assurance procedures, relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to attain and recognises that failure to do so could adversely impact on the the level of assurance required by the Board.
Groups long and short-term value, as a result of financial penalty and loss of customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously, The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant paying full regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
changes in the business and the external environment which could Further details are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with Report on pages 25 to 29. monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of key performance figures against budget and forecasts and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board approves the treasury policy and the Treasury departments activities are also subject to internal audit on an annual basis.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Group produces an Annual Report which is available to shareholders.
At the half year, an Interim Report is published.
The Group also has a website www.
com which contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the Investors section of www.
com to receive email alerts of important announcements made by the Group.
At the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2007, the Company took advantage of provisions contained within the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority enabling communication with shareholders using electronic means via the Group website or by email.
The Groups Annual Report and Accounts, notices of meetings and proxy forms are now provided electronically as a default option.
However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies of documents if they so choose.
The Chairman ensures that any comments he receives from institutional shareholders are communicated directly to the Board and all analysts and brokers reports on the Group are emailed directly to each Director.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
All Board members attend the Annual General Meeting and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders and is also put onto the website.
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
