CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code principles and compliance As announced to the London Stock Exchange on 3 May 2007, The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Mr Henriksson joined the Board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive Throughout the year under review Invensys has been compliant director on 2 May 2007.
Hexagon AB is a Swedish global technology with provisions of the Code on Corporate Governance issued group, listed on the Swedish Stock Exchange, specialising in by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code save for measurement technologies, polymers and key components.
the appointment of the Chairman, Martin Jay, to the Remuneration Executive directors are encouraged to hold one external nonCommittee in August 2006 in anticipation of the amendments to the executive directorship which is in line with the Code requirements Code published in 2006 taking effect.
The following report, together that Boards should not agree to full-time executive directors taking with the Remuneration report, describes how the principles set out on more than one non-executive directorship.
In line with these in the Code have been applied.
requirements, this will be Mr Henrikssons only non-executive directorship outside his role as Chief Executive.
Prior to giving The Board Mr Henriksson permission to accept this role, the Board undertook The Board is chaired by Mr Jay, who was appointed non-executive a review to ensure there was no conflict between the business of Chairman in July 2003.
At 23 May 2007, the Board consisted of two the Group and Hexagon AB.
executive directors and four non-executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
Biographies of all directors are presented on page 11.
Meetings The Board meets at least eight times during the course of the year Michael Parker joined the Board as a non-executive director on with additional meetings convened as necessary: in the financial 24 May 2006.
Mr Parker replaced Larry Farmer who, together with year under review, the Board met on 11 occasions.
The Boards Andrew Macfarlane, retired from the Board at the Annual General programme includes meetings of the Chairman and the nonMeeting on 3 August 2006.
Mr Parker was appointed Senior executives without the executives being present.
Individual Independent Director on 7 December 2006, replacing Bay Green attendance is set out in the table below.
To enable the Board to who had held this role since 22 July 2005.
Mr Parker, as Senior perform its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all Independent Director, is available for shareholders to contact should relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary.
Mr Green was appointed as acting Chairman of Independent financial and professional advice is available to the the Audit Committee to replace Mr Macfarlane and was appointed as directors and Board committees, collectively and individually, permanent Chairman of the Audit Committee on 7 December 2006. as circumstances require, at the Companys expense.
Steve Hare joined the Board on 21 July 2006 as Chief Financial Officer, replacing Adrian Hennah who resigned from the Board on Attendance 16 June 2006.
In addition, Pat Zito was appointed to the Board as During the year the directors attended the following number a non-executive director on 23 May 2007 and as a member of the of meetings of the Board and its Committees.
This analysis includes Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the quorum for meetings and does not include attendance at the invitation of the respective committees.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominating Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Martin Jay 11 11 5 5 8 8 Ulf Henriksson 11 11 1 Steve Hare 7 8 Bay Green 11 11 8 8 2 2 8 8 Jean-Claude Guez 11 11 5 5 7 7 8 8 2 Michael Parker 9 10 6 7 5 5 3 Adrian Hennah 2 2 4 Larry Farmer 3 4 2 3 2 3 4 Andrew Macfarlane 2 4 2 3 2 3 1 From his date of appointment on 21 July 2006 to 31 March 2007.
2 From his date of appointment on 24 May 2006 to 31 March 2007.
3 From 1 April 2006 to the date of his resignation on 16 June 2006.
4 From 1 April 2006 to the date of their resignations on 3 August 2006.
44 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Corporate governance Role and procedures non-executive directors.
The Board considers that all of the There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision non-executive directors are independent for Code purposes.
of the Board for all major strategic and financial decisions.
This includes approval of the quarterly results and the formulation of The Board has a majority of independent non-executive directors strategic and annual operating plans: certain decision making is and a good balance between non-executive and executive directors, delegated through structured procedures to committees and, ensuring that no individual or small group dominates the Boards for operational matters, to senior management.
Although all the decision making.
Terms and conditions of appointment of nondirectors have an equal responsibility for the operations of Invensys, executive directors are available on request from the Company the role of the non-executive directors is particularly important in Secretary.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three ensuring that the strategy and business proposals of the executive year term from the date of their first election by shareholders until management team are fully discussed and examined to ensure that the date of the third annual general meeting thereafter.
After which, they meet the long-term interests of shareholders and also take their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to account of issues affecting employees, customers, suppliers and mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
the many communities within which Invensys conducts its business.
At least one full days meeting every year is devoted to the overall Division of responsibilities strategic planning of the Group.
The Board delegates specific There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman authorities to its Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and and the Chief Executive, formulated in their terms of appointment Remuneration Committee.
Reports of these committees are set and in the delegation of authorities prescribed by the Board, which out on pages 46 to 59.
All directors receive copies of all committee ensures that there is a proper balance of power and authority.
Mr Jay, minutes and the chairmen of each committee provide an update on as Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring matters of significance at the Board meeting following the its effectiveness.
He facilitates the contribution of the non-executive committee meeting.
directors, ensures constructive relations between the executive and non-executive directors and effective communication with Board and committees: performance evaluation shareholders.
Mr Henriksson, as the Chief Executive, is responsible The Board has a formal review process with discrete components for executing the strategy approved by the Board.
covering the evaluation of the Boards collective performance, the appraisal of the performance of individual directors, including the Induction and development Chairman, and each of the Boards committees.
On appointment, new directors receive an induction programme tailored to their experience, including an induction pack comprising Evaluation of executive directors is conducted by the Chairman relevant information, scheduled meetings with key personnel and and non-executive directors.
Appraisal of the non-executive advisors and site visits.
As part of his induction, Mr Parker met senior directors is led by the Chairman in consultation with all directors.
employees and advisers, visited a number of the Controls business Additionally, each non-executive director is asked to assess sites in the US and met with employees and the President of the themselves.
The evaluation of the Chairman is led by the Senior Controls business.
Mr Hares programme included discussions with Independent Director in consultation with the other non-executive major shareholders, advisers and senior employees, visits to the directors: taking into account the views of the executive directors.
businesses and hand-over sessions with Mr Hennah.
The continuing Individual feedback is provided by the Chairman to each of the development of directors, collectively and individually, is mainly directors and by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
effected through the provision to them by relevant external and internal advisers of briefings on matters of current significance to In relation to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, an the Group and also through attendance at external briefings.
In the internal questionnaire based on the Code provisions is used for this year under review, briefings included the Transparency Directive and process.
The evaluation process involves assessment by reference anti age discrimination legislation.
A briefing on the implications of to the relevant roles and responsibilities under review, the current the Companies Act 2006 is planned for later in the year.
terms of reference of the committees and best practice.
The results of the evaluation provide the basis for continuous improvement in Communication with shareholders the Boards procedures and the Boards action plans and objectives Communication with all shareholders is at all times given a high for the following year.
priority and a number of means are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
In order Following the most recent set of reviews, the Board remains satisfied to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, that each ongoing director remains committed to his role and that the Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the Board and each of its committees remains effective.
the Groups investor relations team.
The Group investor relations team offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet with the Board composition and independence Chairman and, where appropriate, other non-executive directors.
The Board meets the Code requirement that at least half of the During the year, the Chairman met with Standard Life and Insight Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with several Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED major shareholders as part of the proposed remuneration policy Meetings changes.
The Nominating Committee met formally on eight occasions during the period.
Attendance is shown in the table on page 44.
At the During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of request of the Nominating Committee, the Chief Executive, Chief the progress of the Group through quarterly results and other Financial Officer and SVP Human Resources were invited to attend announcements of significant developments that are released some meetings of the Committee.
through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation Principal matters considered during the year under review included: in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly definition of the Boards requirements for the selection and with the Company at any time by contacting the investor relations appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer, Mr Hare, and team, whose contact details are listed on the Groups website.
the new non-executive directors, Mr Parker and Mr Zito.
The Committee was assisted in this exercise by external recruitment Additionally, directors are available at the annual general meeting advisers: for shareholders questions.
The Annual report and accounts are sent evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the annual general of the Board and, in light of which, prepared descriptions of meeting.
Voting on resolutions proposed separately is conducted by the role and capabilities required for the three roles: polls at general meetings and voting results are announced through evaluation of those directors proposed for election or re-election the London Stock Exchange and other news services: the results and at the annual general meeting no individual director participating proxy levels are available on the website and on request.
in any matter relating to himself : and adoption of procedures for emergency succession planning.
Nominating Committee report Membership All directors are required to retire by rotation no later than the The Committee currently comprises three non-executive directors, third annual general meeting following their appointment or the majority of whom are independent.
This table details members re-appointment.
No director is proposed for election for a further of the Committee during the year under review: term of three years unless the Nominating Committee has, following evaluation, recommended re-appointment to the Board.
In recent Name Date of appointment years, the Board has implemented a progressive refreshing of its Current members membership and at the present time, two of its members have Martin Jay January 2003, Chairman of the served more than one term of three years.
The recommendations Nominating Committee since 23 July 2003 of the Nominating Committee on election and re-election of Bay Green 1 January 2005 directors are described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Jean-Claude Guez 23 July 2003 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Role The Nominating Committee is appointed by the Board from Audit Committee report the non-executive directors of the Company.
During the year, Membership the terms of reference for the Nominating Committee were The Committee comprised three independent non-executive reviewed and updated.
This consisted of a review against the directors for the year under review and Mr Zito joined the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Adminstrators model, Committee with effect from 23 May 2007.
This table details and of best in class standards.
The revised terms of reference members of the Committee during the year under review: are available on the Groups website.
Name Date of appointment retirement The Committees responsibilities include: Current members making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, Bay Green Acting Chairman of the Audit re-appointment and retirement of directors: Committee from 3 August 2006 and reviewing the performance of directors: appointed permanent Chairman from reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its 7 December 2006 committees: Jean-Claude Guez 20 September 2006 setting the procedure for the appointment of new directors Michael Parker 2 August 2006 to the Board: and Former members succession planning.
Andrew Macfarlane Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2003, retired on 3 August 2006 In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Nominating Committee Larry Farmer 1 March 2002, retired on 3 August 2006 undertook further responsibilities including the interviewing of candidates for appointment to the Board.
46 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Corporate governance Bay Green is a qualified chartered accountant and fellow of the The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and, with independence of Ernst & Young LLP as the auditor of the Groups over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to have recent and financial statements is not impaired by providing non-audit services.
relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
He has These guidelines govern the provision of non-audit services by Ernst held a number of senior positions in Dresdner Kleinwort and is a & Young LLP in identifying certain non-audit services that the auditor Specialist Adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business is prohibited from providing.
Permitted categories of non-audit Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
services are defined and approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The engagements for non-audit services are subject to Role formal approval based on the level of fees involved.
Details of the The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and non-executive directors of the Company.
During the year, other services are set out in Note 5 to the Group financial statements.
the terms of reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed and updated.
This consisted of a review against the Internal control Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Adminstrators model, The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal and of best in class standards.
The revised terms of reference control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Each of the Groups are available on the Groups website.
businesses is individually accountable to the Chief Executive and is managed by a president who, with his senior management team, The Audit Committees responsibilities include: provides day-to-day control over the businesses operations within monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities determined by the reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting Board.
The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups policies: particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed but it should be reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, management: it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: material misstatement or loss.
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, dismissal, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external The Board has established a structured approach to risk auditor: and management with the processes to identify and manage key risks reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and facing the Group being an integral part of the control environment.
effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory The Risk Committee reports to the Board through the Audit requirements.
The Risk Committee is responsible for the system of risk management and for the reporting of key risks and the associated Meetings mitigating management actions.
The Risk Committee comprises the The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and in the Head of Business Risk Chairman of the Committee since 6 March year under review met on eight occasions.
Attendance is shown 2007, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive, the General in the table on page 44.
At least once a year, the Audit Committee Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, and external auditors meet without management present.
At the the Group Treasurer, the VP Environment Health and Safety, the VP invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman and executive Risk Management and Insurance, the Director of Internal Audit and directors normally attend all meetings.
In addition other senior the Deputy Secretary.
During the year, its activities have included managers are invited as required.
reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring processes.
A summary of the principal risks facing the Group is presented on Principal matters considered during the year under review included: pages 41 to 43. review of the financial disclosures in the Groups Annual report and accounts, Interim report and quarterly financial results: review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function, consideration of internal audit reports and the annual internal audit programme: review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes and procedures: approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal: the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and non-audit services by the auditor: the assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditors: recommendation to the Board of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor: and monitoring, through the Risk Committee, the Groups whistle-blowing programme.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that Internal audit it has undertaken its annual assessment of the Groups systems of Internal audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the internal control.
Inputs into the assessment undertaken by the Audit Committee and its responsibilities include the examination and Audit Committee included: evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of consideration of the key risks facing the businesses as part of the internal control.
The audit plan is constructed to provide geographic review of the Groups strategic planning and annual operating coverage over broadly a three year cycle with a degree of tailoring to planning processes: address specific risk concerns.
During the year, it reported regularly review of the enhancements to the overall control environment: to the Audit Committee on its assessment of internal control issues consideration of the key elements of the Groups control arising in the course of its internal audit reviews of the Groups processes including organisational structure, the application of operations.
Each year a consolidated review is provided to assist governance rules and systems, information management including the Board to undertake its own annual review of internal control.
monthly reporting routines and risk management activities: reports received from both internal and external audit during Whistle-blowing the course of the year: and The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements under which the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire which staff can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about potential requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level upwards, irregularities and arrangements for follow-up actions.
The helpline to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational is operated by Global Compliance Services Inc. an independent procedures and controls, including environmental, health and company, and is publicised to employees via the Invensys Code safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
Any investigations are undertaken by the Company Secretary, or at her direction, and any material investigations are Following detailed review, the Audit Committee reported on its brought to the immediate attention of the Audit Committee which findings to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the information determines an appropriate follow-up action.
Statistics on the volume that it has received throughout the year and for its annual review and general nature of calls are reported annually to the Audit together with the procedural review framework that has been Committee and the Board.
No material issues were reported established are sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness through this route during the year.
of the Groups system of internal control.
Whilst areas for improvement in control have been identified and actions initiated on account of the above processes, no significant shortcomings in internal control were identified from the annual assessment.
The internal control process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
48 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007
