The Directors, as employees and potential beneficiaries, have an interest in the 1,854,875 shares held by the ITE Group Employees Share Trust at 30 September 2007.
There has been no movement in this shareholding between 30 September and 3 December 2007.
Bill Dye acquired 26,000 shares on 1 October 2007 and Edward Strachan acquired 1,000,000 shares on 3 October 2007.
Other than these, there were no other changes in the interests of Directors between 30 September 2007 and 3 December 2007.
Right to purchase the Companys shares At the Annual General Meeting on 22 February 2007, the shareholders authorised the Company to make one or more market purchases of up to 25,992,919 of the Companys ordinary shares at a price between 1p exclusive of expenses and 105% of the average middle market price of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the share is purchased.
Since that date, the Company purchased 10,185,000 of its own shares which were cancelled before 30 September 2007.
The shares acquired in the year had a nominal value of 101,850, presenting 3.8% of the issued share capital and were purchased for consideration of 17.5 million.
The reason for the purchase was to reduce surplus cash balances and enhance earnings per share.
The Company has a remaining authority to purchase a further 15,807,919 of its own shares which will expire at the next Annual General Meeting on 6 March 2008.
In total, the Company cancelled 11,160,833 of its ordinary shares in the year.
Donations The Group made no charitable donations 2006: 3,000 during the year.
No political donations were made 2006: Nil.
Employees The Groups human resources strategy is to attract and retain talented, high-calibre employees focused on achieving excellent results.
Remuneration policy is designed to achieve this aim.
It is the Groups policy to consider fully applications for employment by disabled persons, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort would be made to ensure their continued employment and progression in the Group.
It is Group policy that training, career development and promotion of disabled employees match that of other employees as far as possible.
The Group places great importance in the development of its staff to support the business in meeting its objectives.
This is reflected in the training initiatives in place for staff, both internally and externally.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters affecting them and on matters effecting the Groups performance through regular newsletters and through meetings, both formal and informal.
Employees are able and are encouraged to move around the Group in order to experience the business environment in other offices.
The Group actively encourages the participation of employees in activities of offices other than their own.
The Group distributes long-term incentives widely to staff in all offices.
At 30 September 2007 approximately 60% of staff held long-term incentives in some form.
As a result, the Groups employees identify strongly with ITEs overall objectives.
Supplier payment policy The Companys policy, which is also applied to the Group, is to agree payment terms with suppliers when entering into each transaction to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders will see from the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 73 to 76 that they are to consider and, if thought fit, to pass three resolutions as special business.
These resolutions have become routine business at the Annual General Meeting of most public companies.
The resolutions relate to: renewal of the authority for the Directors to allot relevant securities renewal of the powers of the Directors to allot equity securities as if pre-emption rights did not apply renewal of the authority for the Company to purchase certain of its own shares and to hold them as treasury shares Additionally, the Company has proposed two new resolutions, numbers 11 and 12, which allow the Company to offer shareholders the opportunity to have documents and information made available to them through the Companys website and in electronic form, following implementation of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and consequential changes to the Articles of Association.
In due course, the Company will ask shareholders, individually, whether they would like to elect to continue to receive documents and information in paper form.
Otherwise, they would be made available to them through the website or in other electronic form.
ITE Group plc 29 Annual Report 2007 Directors report continued Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the date when this report was approved confirms: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s234ZA Companies Act 1985.
Statement of Directors responsibilities for the Group financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP Company financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Report on remuneration which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The report of the Directors has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Russell Taylor Company Secretary 3 December 2007 ITE Group plc 30 Annual Report 2007 Report on corporate governance Statement of compliance with the revised Combined Code on corporate governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code.
During the financial year, the Company complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code Combined Code insofar as it applies to the Company.
Statement about applying the principles of good governance The Company has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Report on remuneration.
Board of Directors The Board of Directors meets not less than seven times a year.
The Board considers a range of matters for its approval, including setting Group strategy, acquisition policy, the budgets, major capital expenditure and material contracts.
The Board monitors the performance of the businesses against appropriate forecasts and key performance indicators.
The Board is supplied with financial and operational information on a timely basis to enable it to discharge its duties and carry out its responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and there is a procedure to enable them to take additional independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Senior Independent non-executive Director is Sir Jeremy Hanley.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board comprises three non-executive Directors and three or four executive Directors during the year.
The Board currently has four non-executive Directors including the Chairman and three executive Directors which it considers to be an appropriate balance of executive and non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and each has defined roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
The Nomination Committee considers all appointments made to the Board.
The only appointment in the year was Bill Dye on 3 September 2007.
The full terms and conditions of the appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for review before the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee and Chief Executive agreed the specifications for the position and an external search company was appointed to provide a shortlist of candidates.
The candidates were all interviewed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and a shortlist of candidates were interviewed by the members of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee collectively recommended his appointment to the Board.
The Directors diversity of experience and knowledge of the markets in which ITE operates is key to the development of a robust strategy for the Group and to its execution.
The non-executive Directors contribute an independent and objective view to the management of the Company and play a full and active part in the various Board committees.
The names and biographies of the Directors are on pages 26 and 27.
The Board considers Michael Hartley, Sir Jeremy Hanley and Malcolm Wall to be independent, and recognises that Iain Paterson was independent on the date of his appointment.
Any Directors appointed since the last Annual General Meeting are required to offer themselves for re-election at the first available Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of the Company, all Directors are required to stand for re-election at least every three years.
The non-executive Directors met formally without the executives present twice during the year.
A formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out.
The Chairman circulated a questionnaire to each Director that sought views on various factors concerning the workings of the Board and its effectiveness.
The results were collated and debated by the Board.
As a result, improvements have been made particularly to the allocation of time spent at Board meetings discussing the key significant business and strategic issues.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Senior Independent Director.
A number of matters were discussed at these meetings which served to enhance further the satisfactory performance of the Board.
ITE Group plc 31 Annual Report 2007
