Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 99 Corporate governance The Board of ITV plc is committed to business integrity and high appropriate division of responsibilities to avoid excessive concentration ethical values across the Groups operations.
As an essential part of power while Michael Grade is Executive Chairman.
His responsibilities of this commitment, the Board supports high standards of include the following, amongst others: corporate governance and has a policy of seeking to comply with to act as a conduit to the Board for communication of shareholder the recommendations of the Combined Code and voting guidelines concerns when other channels of communication are inappropriate: of our major institutional investors where appropriate.
to ensure the performance evaluation of the Executive Chairman is Compliance conducted effectively: As required by the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services to ensure the outcomes of performance evaluations of the Executive Authority, this report describes how the Company has applied the Chairman and other non-executive directors are acted upon: and principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
It also discloses the extent to which the Company has to convene and chair meetings of the non-executive directors.
complied with the Codes provisions.
Details of his professional commitments are included in his biography The Board considers that, throughout the year, the Company on page 50.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the complied with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception performance of his duties for the Company.
The Board remains of the view that the The job descriptions of the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating appointment of Michael Grade as Executive Chairman provides the Officer and the senior independent director are set out in writing and Company with a strong and creative leadership which is important have been agreed by the Board.
at this time of rapid change in the media industry.
John Cresswell is Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, and Election and re-election: All directors are required by the Companys the executive team report directly to him as shown below.
The balance Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual of creative leadership and media management skills promotes an General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
acceleration in the improvement of the Companys business.
Sir James Subsequently, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at Crosby is the senior independent director and Chairman of the least every three years.
The directors who will be seeking election and Nomination Committee and helps to provide an appropriate level of re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2008 are set out governance control.
It is planned that Michael Grade will step down from in the Directors report on page 53.
The reasons why the Board believes his executive role in 2010 and remain as non-executive Chairman and they should be re-elected are set out in the explanatory notes to the a Chief Executive will be appointed at that time.
notice of the Annual General Meeting.
External directorships: With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies but only one FTSE 100 company and retain any related fees paid to them.
Details of fees received during 2007 can be found in the Remuneration report on page 109.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
They bring strong, independent judgment, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The nonexecutive directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Independence: The Combined Code recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers each of its current non-executive directors to be independent.
Meetings: The non-executive directors meet regularly as a group.
They met without the executive directors present on one occasion in 2007 and have done so again in 2008.
Terms of engagement: Subject to the Companys Articles of The Board Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance Composition: The Board currently comprises 12 members, the Executive evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, two other of three years from commencement of appointment.
At the third executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
Biographical details anniversary of appointment the director will discuss with the Board for each of the directors are set out on pages 50 and 51. whether it is appropriate for a further term to be served, subject to the The composition of the Board during 2007 is set out in the Directors Board succession planning framework explained in the Nomination report on page 53.
Committee section on page 102 which provides that any further term may be adjusted in length should that be in the interests of an orderly Executive Chairman: Michael Grade is Executive Chairman and is succession of non-executive directors to the Board.
The re-appointment responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
of directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual review.
Deputy Chairman: Sir George Russell is Deputy Chairman.
Baroness Usha Prashar completed three years as a non-executive Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director: John Cresswell is Chief director in February 2008.
It was agreed that she should serve a further term subject to the Board succession planning framework.
Operating Officer and Finance Director and has responsibility to the Board for leadership and management of the day-to-day operations Time commitment: The time commitment expected of the of the Group.
non-executive directors as set out in their standard terms of Senior independent director: Sir James Crosby was appointed as senior engagement is 12 to 18 days per annum, including attendance at Board meetings, Board committee meetings, the Annual General independent director on 19 February 2007.
His role is designed to provide an effective level of governance control and to ensure there is an Meeting, an annual strategy away day and an annual strategy dinner.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
100 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance Company Secretary The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to board committees, The Company Secretary, James Tibbitts, is responsible for advising the key committees being the Audit Committee, Nomination the Board on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Management advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Further information is provided below.
of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Information flow: Regular reports and papers are circulated to the decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company directors in a timely manner in preparation for board and committee Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as meetings.
These papers are supplemented by other relevant information secretary of the Board and all its Committees and in addition is when applicable or if requested.
responsible for a number of the head office central services functions.
The non-executive directors receive monthly management accounts and regular management reports including financial and non-financial How the Board operates KPIs which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements Board meetings: The Board is scheduled to meet ten times in 2008 performance against agreed objectives.
They also receive a weekly including two meetings devoted to discussion of strategic matters and information pack which includes key performance data, information may meet at other times as and when required.
The Board approves about the Company and other corporate governance matters.
This annually a schedule of matters to be considered at each meeting and at information is also made available on a secure website which can be each meeting of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
accessed by all directors at any time.
In 2007, the Board focused on the following areas of strategic importance to the Company, amongst others: Independent professional advice: Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense when the development and implementation of the Turnaround strategy, the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out providing the Company with a clear strategic focus up to 2012: their responsibilities.
the Companys preparations for digital switchover and the Insurance: The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors development of a new free-to-view satellite proposition, Freesat, and officers with a cover limit of 75 million.
a joint venture with the BBC: Indemnities: The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with the circumstances surrounding the premium rate services issues, its directors.
including the Deloitte report into failings, and the actions the Company was taking to restore trust and improve enterprise risk Board effectiveness management: Performance evaluation: The Board has established a formal process for the launch of the extensively redeveloped itv.
com complete with the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, video-on-demand VOD services, and the development of further and individual directors with particular attention given to those who are VOD services with the BBC and Channel 4: due for re-election, in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that the Companys submission to the Competition Commission following their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation.
the acquisition by BSkyB of an 17.9% stake in the Company: and Some of the actions taken during the year resulting from the 2006 refining and implementing a succession planning framework for the evaluation included: Board and senior executives.
ensuring appropriate mix of experience and expertise: and Attendance: Attendance of directors at board and strategy meetings more detailed reviews on board and management succession and the Annual General Meeting during 2007 is set out below.
members receive all papers tabled at meetings even if they are unable to attend.
In November 2007 independent consultants, Boardroom Review, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, individual directors and the Executive Chairman.
The evaluation process included a written questionnaire and an interview with each director and the Company Secretary.
The questions covered a range of issues such as board processes, board roles and responsibilities, board agendas, committee processes, individual effectiveness, training and continuing professional development.
The independent consultant also attended the November board and committee meetings, and reviewed associated papers.
Feedback from the evaluation process was provided to the Board in the form of a presentation at a board meeting and a written report.
The review made the following suggestions, amongst others, for enhanced effectiveness: Nomination Committee membership could be expanded to include all non-executive directors to improve co-ordination of information: the Board should consider stakeholder mapping to analyse and review Responsibility and delegation: The specific responsibilities are set out stakeholder priorities on a regular basis: and in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include: the programme of board meetings scheduled for the year and setting long-term objectives and corporate strategy and approving meetings of non-executive directors without the executives should an annual budget: be kept under review.
approving major acquisitions: The Board and its committees were found to be operating effectively and the Board has accepted the recommendations made as a result approving major divestments and capital expenditure: of the review process and will make changes to reflect them.
approving appointments to the Board: reviewing systems of internal control and risk management: and approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 101 Induction and continuing professional development: The Company largest institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Company responds to has a policy and programme for induction and continuing professional individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
development, which is reviewed annually.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will On appointment, each director takes part in a comprehensive attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask induction programme where they: questions during the meeting and to meet with directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Executive Chairman receive information about the Group in the form of presentations reviews the Groups current trading.
Notice of the Annual General by executives from all parts of the business and on the regulatory Meeting, together with any related documents, is made available to environment: shareholders on our website or mailed to them if they have elected to meet representatives of the Company's key advisers, such as the receive hard copies about seven weeks before the meeting and separate Company's auditors and solicitors: resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on receive information about the role of the Board and the matters a resolution is announced to the meeting following voting and is made reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of available on a regulatory news service and on the Company website at board committees and the powers delegated to those committees: www.
receive information about the Company's corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information about Board committees the Group: and The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The terms are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of reference for each committee are reviewed annually.
Current committee membership: The above is supplemented by visits to key locations, including studios and regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with major shareholders where appropriate.
During their period in office, the directors are continually updated on the Group's businesses and the competitive and regulatory environments in which they operate.
They receive regular updates on: corporate responsibility matters: changes affecting the Group and the markets in which it operates through written briefings and meetings with senior executives across the Group and from meetings with key advisers: and changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and in relation to their own position as directors.
During 2007 the directors were fully briefed by independent advisers on certain of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 with particular emphasis on directors' duties.
Audit Committee Composition and attendance: During 2007 the Audit Committee Internal control comprised: The Combined Code requires the Board to review, at least annually, all Appointed Resigned material internal controls including financial, operational, compliance John McGrath Chairman 17 January 2008 controls and risk management systems.
In October 2005 the Financial Mike Clasper Reporting Council issued revised guidance to directors in respect of compliance with the internal control requirements of the Combined Sir James Crosby 19 February 2007 Code.
In the opinion of the Board the Company has complied with this Baroness Usha Prashar 1 September 2007 guidance throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process for Sir George Russell 1 September 2007 identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
Agns Touraine 8 August 2007 A section on the Companys approach to internal control is included in the Audit Committee report on page 105.
The Board has conducted John McGrath resigned from the Board on 17 January 2008 and Mike a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls Clasper became Chairman of the Committee.
John Ormerod became for the year ended 31 December 2007. a member of the Committee on 18 January 2008.
Relations with shareholders Attendance during 2007: The Board attaches a high priority to communications with shareholders.
In addition to the preliminary and interim results presentations and the Annual General Meeting, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders, the Executive Chairman, the senior independent director and the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director are held throughout the year.
In fulfilment of the obligations under the Combined Code, the Executive Chairman gives feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
In line with best practice the Board commissioned an Investor The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least Audit during 2007 to assess investor and wider market perceptions one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial of the Company over time and, in particular, following the experience.
The Board considered this requirement during 2007, and announcement of the new strategy in September 2007.
The audit concluded that the wide range of business and financial experience of included both quantitative analysis and a qualitative assessment the Committee members as a whole, gained at the highest level of UK based on interviews with a number of leading shareholders.
FTSE 100 companies and other blue-chip organisations, was sufficient The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide to enable the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust and range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The appointment of John Ormerod in January The Company has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders 2008 will strengthen the position further.
Biographical details of the on a range of issues affecting its performance.
These include meetings members of the Committee are set out on pages 50 and 51. following the announcement of the annual results with the Companys 102 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance Terms of reference: The Committees main role and responsibilities Nomination Committee include to: Composition and attendance: During 2007 the Nomination Committee comprised: monitor the integrity of the consolidated and parent company Appointed Resigned financial statements: Sir James Crosby Chairman review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and Mike Clasper risk management systems: John McGrath 5 March 2007 review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or Sir Robert Phillis 2 October 2007 other matters: Sir Brian Pitman 5 March 2007 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Baroness Usha Prashar 29 November 2007 function: and Sir George Russell consider and make recommendations to the Board in relation to Heather Killen, John Ormerod and Agns Touraine were appointed to the appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration the Committee on 4 February 2008.
Sir Brian Pitman was reappointed of the Companys external auditor.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at Attendance during 2007: www.
com Activities in 2007: Please see the Audit Committee report on page 104.
Remuneration Committee Composition and attendance: During 2007 the Remuneration Committee comprised: Appointed Resigned Baroness Usha Prashar Terms of reference: The Committees main role and responsibilities Chairman 1 September 2007 include to: Sir James Crosby 19 February 2007 review the structure, size and composition of the Board: Heather Killen 29 November 2007 identify and nominate for board approval, candidates to fill Sir Robert Phillis 2 October 2007 board vacancies: Sir Brian Pitman evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Sir George Russell 1 September 2007 Board: and Attendance during 2007: consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at www.
com Activities in 2007: The Committee led the search for the three new non-executive directors who were appointed to the Board during the year or shortly thereafter: Heather Killen, Agns Touraine and John Ormerod.
The search was conducted with the help of a professional search firm.
The Committee considers the composition of the Board on an annual basis to ensure that it comprises the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Terms of reference: The Committees main role and responsibilities During the year the Committee formalised a succession planning include to: framework for the Board.
The objectives of the framework are to ensure: determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking and for the remuneration of the Companys executive directors, the Company Secretary and other senior executives: new ideas: the Board has the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the for the Companys changing requirements: and remuneration policy: approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance non-executive directors have the appropriate level of independence, from the executive and from each other.
related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: Implementing these objectives will involve a continuous process of refreshment of the Board with new appointments and with rotation review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the of membership of board committees.
Directors may normally expect Board and shareholders: to serve for approximately six years, though a longer term may be ensure that contractual terms on termination recognise that failure appropriate in some instances.
is not rewarded: and The Committee also reviewed succession planning for key executives throughout the Group.
This has involved both internal promotion and oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures external recruitment.
In 2007, five members of the senior team with throughout the Company and Group.
a range of skills and experience joined the Executive Board from The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at other organisations.
com Activities in 2007: Please see the Remuneration report on page 106.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 103 Management Committee The Management Committee comprises the executive directors.
The Committee meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to those matters reserved to the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Contacts for corporate governance Executive Chairman Michael Grade Senior independent director Sir James Crosby Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director John Cresswell Company Secretary James Tibbitts Telephone: 020 7156 6000 Governance documents The following documents are available on the Companys website at www.
com: Job descriptions for the Executive Chairman, Chief Operating Officer and senior independent director: Terms of engagement for non-executive directors: Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: Terms of reference for Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Management Committees: Guidelines for seeking independent advice: Board performance programme: Directors indemnity: and Terms of reference for remuneration consultants.
104 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Audit Committee report Role of the Audit Committee reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for The role of the Audit Committee the Committee is to monitor the the internal audit function.
The internal audit plan is constructed by integrity of the financial statements of the Company, assist the Board taking a risk based approach with the review cycle designed such that in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and financially material operations and areas of significant change are risk management systems, and review arrangements for its employees reviewed in a given year with all activities reviewed at least once every to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial three years: reporting or other matters.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, recommendations made in those reports and the status of progress re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of the Companys against previously agreed actions: external auditor.
reviewing the results of the annual Group risk assessment process, The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with including consideration of a rolling programme of risk and internal agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial control presentations made by each operating team and central reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is service functions: required to consider regularly.
Further details regarding the Committee can be found in the reviewing an annual report on the effectiveness of the Groups Corporate Governance section on page 101. systems of internal control and reporting to the Board on the results of that review: Composition of the Committee reviewing the procedural changes to be implemented as part of the The Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive review into premium rate services, as highlighted in the Business directors.
The current members are: review section on page 30: Mike Clasper Chairman meeting privately with both the external and internal auditors, John Ormerod without management being present, to discuss the remit of managements work and any issues arising from their performance: Sir George Russell considering proposed policies in respect of interest rate management Agns Touraine and tax risk management prior to presentation to the Board Full details on membership of the Committee throughout 2007, for approval: and details of attendance at Committee meetings, can be found considering the Groups expenditure approval framework prior to in the Corporate Governance section on page 101. board review and approval: At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, the Deputy Group Finance considering regulatory and professional developments in respect Director, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of senior of financial accounting and reporting: and management and the external auditors regularly attend Audit receiving reports from the Treasury department on their activities.
The Committee as a whole has the opportunity to meet privately with the internal and external auditors at any time Auditors independence and objectivity they consider appropriate.
In 2007 one private meeting was held with The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to the external auditors.
the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity, and that Activities in 2007 the Group maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit The Committee met four times in 2007 and discharged its firms.
The policy sets out four key principles which underpin the provision responsibilities by: of other services by the external auditors: the auditor should not audit its reviewing the Groups draft financial statements including detailed own firms work, make management decisions for the Group, have a disclosures prior to board approval: mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
The policy sets a maximum 1:1 ratio for the reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and annual split between audit and other fees charged by the external considering related accounting treatments in specific areas such as auditor.
The Committee has pre-approved the categories of other revenue recognition: services that may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly performing a specific review of the Groups goodwill accounting, set out the categories of work that they may not perform.
For this including the methodology and assumptions made in relation to purpose auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant goodwill impairment testing: to legislation and other services provided pursuant to legislation are regarded as audit services.
The Committee believes that these policies reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan: accord with governance best practice.
Committee approval is required reviewing the external auditors reports on their work, considering for any engagement of the external auditors where the fee is likely to the findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters be in excess of 0.1 million.
had been satisfactorily resolved: The Committee reviews all services being provided by the external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the external reviewing the management letter arising from the 2006 year-end auditors, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory external audit: requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of other considering a review of the effectiveness of the external auditors: permissible services.
The Committee also performs a specific evaluation of the performance of the external auditors annually, through monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the assessment of the results of questionnaires completed by relevant Group by its external auditors.
The Committee has approved a formal executive management in addition to Committee members own views policy governing the independence of the Companys external of auditor performance.
The Company will carry out market testing auditors and defining those non-audit services that may be provided or a form of audit tender every five years from appointment of to the Group, including those which require the prior approval of the external auditors.
Details of the related audit and other services are set out in note 4 of the consolidated financial statements on page 68: Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 105 Internal control The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys expense, control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
independent legal or professional advice on any matter within its terms The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Groups systems of of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these the Committee as and when required.
systems is delegated to line management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Approval misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2008 and rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: signed on its behalf by: Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a Mike Clasper comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
Chairman, Audit Committee The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, compared with their individual budgets and forecast figures and are reviewed on a month-by-month basis.
Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly defined.
Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process and are reviewed as part of the Groups internal audit work programme.
Risk assessment: Management has responsibility for the identification of risks facing each of the Groups businesses and for putting in place controls and procedures to mitigate and monitor those risks.
A formal annual risk assessment process has been established, the results of which are reported to the executive directors and the Board.
Key risks, mitigating controls and required actions are identified and monitored by the executive directors and the Committee.
In addition, a rolling programme of risk assessment presentations is made to the Committee to enable it to review the risks in these areas at least once a year.
The Chief Operating Officer, Deputy Group Finance Director and Company Secretary attend these presentations.
From 2008, risk management will be strengthened through the establishment of an Enterprise Risk Management process.
This builds upon the existing processes to formalise executive management input, increases the amount of senior management validation review and improves the cross-business focus on ITVs key risks.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the executive directors and the Committee.
Directors of each business team are required annually to confirm compliance with internal control in their area.
Serious control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and actions taken as appropriate.
