Statement of corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the principles It continues to monitor the progress of the investigation by the Competition and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Commission into grocery retailing in the UK, and reviews the Companys the Code.
development, leadership and succession planning programmes.
The Board The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees.
The Board is chaired by Sir Philip Hampton.
At 15 May 2007, the Board The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee established during the year consisted of two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
will advise the Board on broad CR policy, taking into account the Companys Dr John McAdam, Chief Executive of ICI plc, is the Senior Independent CR objectives and the overall strategic plan.
Through the Audit Committee, Director.
Anna Ford was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director the Directors ensure the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness on 2 May 2006 and Val Gooding on 11 January 2007.
Bridget Macaskill left of the financial controls and the internal control and risk management the Board following the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2006 and systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Jamie Dundas stepped down on 2 February 2007.
Executive Directors and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 28. of Board Directors and has responsibility for evaluating the balance of the The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year, including Board and for succession planning at Board level.
Further details are set a two-day strategy conference, one of them at the TU Clothing Store out below.
Support Centre and Distribution Facility at Coventry.
The Board Attendance met on several other occasions outside of the formal schedule.
During the year the Directors attended the following number of scheduled The Non-Executive Directors met during the year without the meetings of the Board and its Committees the number of meetings held Executive Directors being present.
whilst they were Directors is shown in brackets : Division of responsibilities Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Number of meetings Board.
Philip Hampton is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective Anna Ford 9 9 2 2 4 4 communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the 1 Val Gooding 2 2 1 1 views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Philip Hampton 9 9 2 2 Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive Gary Hughes 9 9 4 4 2 2 and Non-Executive Directors.
He ensures that the Chief Executive develops Justin King 9 9 a strategy which is supported by the Board as a whole.
Justin King is John McAdam 9 9 4 4 2 2 responsible for executing the strategy once agreed by the Board.
Darren Shapland 9 9 He creates a framework of values, organisation and objectives to ensure Bob Stack 9 9 2 2 4 4 the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision making and 1 Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2007 responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
Directors who left the Board during the year: Independence Non-Executive Directors Bridget Macaskill 3 3 1 1 1 1 The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his Jamie Dundas 8 8 3 3 2 2 3 3 appointment and all the Non-Executive Directors who have served during the year are considered to be independent according to the principles Information and development of the Code.
Bob Stack is a Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc which The quality and supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed supplies products to Sainsburys, but neither the Board, nor Cadbury as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Chairman is responsible for Schweppes, considers the relationship to be material in the context ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board of their overall businesses.
meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are appointed for an initial take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after furtherance of their duties.
The Company has a programme for meeting their appointment, after which their appointment may be extended for Directors training and development requirements.
Newly appointed a second term, subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
Directors who do not have previous public company experience at The Boards role Board level are provided with appropriate training on their role and The Board is focused on delivering sustainable added value for responsibilities.
New Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored shareholders.
It considers strategic issues, key projects and major induction programme including store and depot visits and meetings investments and regularly monitors performance against delivery of the with members of the Operating Board, senior management and external agreed key targets.
It approves the corporate plan and the annual budget advisors.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to meet and reviews performance against targets at every meeting.
These and particular needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting other key responsibilities are formally reserved powers of the Board.
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, The Board considered a number of specific projects and initiatives new legislation and on Directors duties and obligations, whilst the Audit during the year, including the proposals made by the private equity Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through consortium, all of which were subject to a number of pre-conditions presentations from management and the external auditors.
The Board related to the consortiums proposed financing structure.
In addition, programme includes presentations from management which, together the Board considered and approved the new three-year targets and with site visits, increases the Non-Executive Directors understanding the restructuring of the Groups interest in Sainsburys Bank.
of the business and the sector.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 33 Statement of corporate governance continued All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company competencies and experience.
Prior to each appointment the Committee Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are considered a full range of references and the Non-Executive Directors followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of met the preferred candidate.
The Committee is currently undertaking the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
an extensive search for a further Non-Executive Director.
Performance evaluation The Committees terms of reference are available on the website In March 2006 the Board undertook an extensive evaluation of its www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees performance and effectiveness with the assistance of Egon Zehnder responsibilities.
The Committee meets when necessary and in 2006 07 International, the international search consultancy.
This confirmed that met formally on two occasions and received further regular updates on the Board was acting effectively and identified a number of action points the recruitment process.
The purpose of the internal evaluation exercise Remuneration Committee conducted in March 2007 was to review the progress that had been The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack who was appointed a Non-Executive made during the year and identify any new issues.
Having agreed the Director and Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2005. key objectives of this years exercise with the Chairman, the Company The Remuneration report is set out on pages 37 to 43.
Secretary met with each Director separately to discuss the Boards role Corporate Responsibility Committee and structure, process and relationships and any emerging issues and then As corporate responsibility has become an intrinsic part of the strategic presented the findings to the Board, identifying the key themes that were agenda, the Board reviewed the CR governance structure during the year working well and areas which could be improved or approached differently.
and established a new CR Committee.
This is chaired by Anna Ford, and The Board concluded that it was satisfied with the progress that had been Justin King and a Non-Executive Director will be its members.
It will meet made during the year and that it was working effectively.
twice a year and will report to the Board after each meeting.
The Senior Independent Director received comments on the Chairmans Formal meetings are supported by CR strategic meetings hosted by performance and subsequently met with him to provide feedback to him.
Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each meeting will be based around one of The Chairman separately reviewed the contribution of each of the Directors our five CR principles and key external stakeholders will be invited to with them.
The first meeting was held in February 2007 relating to Sourcing Operating Board with Integrity.
Day to day management of the Company is delegated to the Operating Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board holds 10 formal At operational level, Justin King is the overall CR champion and chairs the meetings a year.
Directors responsibilities are set out on page 29.
It has CR Steering Group, attended by the five Operating Board Directors who formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
Minutes are champion each of our five CR principles.
copied to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Operating Board The Best for Food and Health Gwyn Burr members regularly attend and present at Board meetings as well as the Sourcing with Integrity Mike Coupe strategy conference.
Respect for Our Environment Darren Shapland The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Making a Positive Difference to Our Community Ken McMeikan Board, which is responsible for ranging and sourcing product, price A Great Place to Work Imelda Walsh and promotions, advertising and marketing: to the Retail Board, which A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities and has responsibility for stores, service and availability and supply chain activities are set on pages 20 to 21.
This years Corporate Responsibility operations: and to the Investment Board, which is responsible for Report will be published in June 2007. investment decisions.
The Trading Board is chaired by Mike Coupe, Trading Director: the Retail Board is chaired by Ken McMeikan, Retail Director: and The Association of British Insurers recommends that the Board considers the Investment Board by Darren Shapland, Chief Financial Officer.
The material risks and control processes relating to corporate responsibility.
Corporate Responsibility Steering Group was established this year: it is The Audit Committees review of the system of internal controls and risk chaired by Justin King and its membership comprises the five Operating management processes referred to below includes corporate responsibility Board Directors who represent each of the five CR principles see below.
and the Committee considers any major corporate responsibility or brand reputation risks identified by the process, to the extent any such exist.
Board Committees The induction programme for new Board Directors includes a full review The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Nomination, of corporate responsibility.
Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Audit Committees.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee During the year Gary Hughes was appointed Chairman of the Audit The Nomination Committee is chaired by Philip Hampton and comprises Committee with John McAdam and Jamie Dundas until his retirement each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is not a member of the in February 2007 as its other members, all of whom are independent Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
Following Jamie Dundas retirement, the The Committee led the recruitment process for each of the Board Committee membership has comprised only two independent Nonappointments during the year, which has resulted in Anna Ford and Executive Directors, but Philip Hampton, who has extensive financial Val Gooding being appointed.
Search consultants were instructed by experience, attends all meetings of the Committee.
The Board is currently the Committee on the searches.
The Committee considered the skills, recruiting a new Non-Executive Director who will also join the Committee knowledge, background and experience required for each role, and a and bring the membership to three.
The Board has determined that Gary job specification was prepared for each appointment.
The Committee Hughes has recent and relevant financial experience.
Philip Hampton, also specified the time commitment expected of the roles.
Profiles of a Justin King, Darren Shapland, Richard Chadwick, the Head of Internal shortlist of preferred candidates were prepared for the Committee and Audit, other senior members of the Finance Division and the external the potential composition and mix of the candidates were considered from auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Company a team perspective in order to ensure a complementary combination of Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Statement of corporate governance continued During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the agendas being that any required remedial action has or is being taken on any identified organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
It monitored the integrity weaknesses.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant financial objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance judgements contained in them.
The Committee has also reviewed against material misstatement or loss.
It includes all controls including the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management control and risk management systems and has monitored progress procedures.
to ensure that any required remedial action has been or is being taken The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal control on any identified weaknesses.
systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made, The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC overall and include the following: work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategic and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs performance and direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including The Committee recommended PwCs re-appointment as auditors to both revenue and capital expenditure: the Board and this resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
regular operational and financial reviews of performance against The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which restricts budgets and forecasts by management and the Board: the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
The policy is regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an and actions being taken to mitigate them: impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It identifies regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified certain types of engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake fraudulent activity and any whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers, and others such as tax planning and mergers and acquisitions advice and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses: that can only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope Committee Chairman or the Committee where non-audit fees will exceed and results of internal audit work across the Company and of the pre-set thresholds.
The Committee receives a report at each meeting on implementation of recommendations.
The scope of the work covers the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit all key activities of the Company and concentrates on higher risk areas: fees.
In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the Audit all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the Committee Committee and any significant issues arising: Chairman.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken during 2006 07 reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of related to Corporation Tax and VAT advice but work was also carried out on delegated authority: and the performance conditions relating to the Companys long-term incentive consideration by the Board of the major risks facing the Group and by plans and the restructuring of the Groups interest in Sainsburys Bank, the Audit Committee of the procedures to manage them.
These include see page 19 and note 7 to the financial statements for details.
The non-audit health and safety, legal compliance, litigation, quality assurance, fees for the year were 0.5 million and the audit fee for the year in respect insurance and security and reputational, social, ethical and of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries was 0.9 million.
The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing resources, budget, work programme, results and managements the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place implementation of its recommendations, and overseen a formal external throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report review of the departments effectiveness during the year.
The Head and Financial Statements and accords with the Turnbull guidance 2005. of Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee Chairman and The effectiveness of the process is reviewed annually by the Audit Philip Hampton.
Gary Hughes has held separate meetings with him and Committee which then reports to the Board.
The process consists of: PwC during the year.
The Committee regularly met with PwC without formal identification by management of each division of the key management being present, and may meet the Head of Internal Audit risks to achieving their business objectives and the controls in place separately if it deems necessary.
The likelihood and potential impact of each risk The Committee has reviewed the Companys whistleblowing procedures is evaluated and actions necessary to mitigate them are identified.
which were strengthened during the year and confirmed that arrangements The risks and progress in mitigating them are regularly reviewed are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about at divisional leadership team meetings as part of their normal possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
business activities: certification by management that they are responsible for managing During the year the Company introduced a new fraud policy and the risks to their business objectives and that the internal controls established a Serious Fraud Committee, which convenes in the event of are such that they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that serious incidents to oversee case management and ensure preventative the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, measures are taken.
The Audit Committee receives an update at each evaluated and managed: meeting on all material frauds and the actions taken.
reporting and review by the Operating Board of risk management The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the website activities and actions to improve their effectiveness: www.
co. uk governance, set out the Committees responsibilities.
assurance from specialist functions and committees that legal and regulatory, health and safety, social, ethical and environmental Internal control risks are appropriately identified and managed: and The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, independent assurance by Internal Audit as to the existence and including risk management, and has delegated certain of these effectiveness of the risk management activities described responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has by management.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and ensured Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 35 Statement of corporate governance continued The system of internal control and risk management is embedded into the operations of the Company, and the actions taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
Investor relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is generally available to shareholders and meets with institutional investors as required.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors who, along with buyside and sellside analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys interim and full year results.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors so as to be available to all investors.
To ensure that the Board understand the views of the major shareholders, Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and reported to the Board on the views of institutional investors and sellside analysts.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys Investor Relations department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM, which will be held on 11 July 2007.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King will make a business presentation.
The Senior Independent Director and Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and CR Committees will be available to answer questions.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on page 92 and on the Companys website www.
Compliance statement During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception that, as explained above, the Audit Committee currently only has two Non-Executive Directors as members instead of three.
This will be resolved once the existing search for a new Non-Executive Director is successfully completed.
36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
