CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effective governance is at the core of J D Wetherspoons ability to Tim Martin, chairman operate successfully in 671 pubs in England, Wales, Northern John Hutson, chief executive officer Ireland and Scotland.
J D Wetherspoons established governance Jim Clarke, finance director and company secretary framework is overseen by the board of directors, which is John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and ultimately responsible to J D Wetherspoons shareholders.
senior non-executive director Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director Statement of compliance Debra van Gene, non-executive director The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code the Biographies about all non-executive and executive directors can be Code.
The board believes that the company has been fully viewed on the companys Web site: www.
co. uk compliant throughout the year ended 29 July 2007, with the exception of John Herring, who has served more than nine years on On appointment to the board, every director is provided with the board and so may not be considered independent under the a comprehensive induction programme, covering all aspects of Code.
The board considers that his performance as a non-executive the companys operations.
Formal evaluation of the board and director continues to be effective.
He contributes significantly as a individual members, together with appraisals, take place director through his individual skills and his considerable knowledge annually, conducted by the chairman and deputy chairman, and experience of the group.
He also continues to demonstrate with any training and development needs evaluated as part strong independence in the manner in which he discharges his of the process.
Site visits are arranged regularly to enable responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has concluded non-executive directors to see, at first hand, that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with the operations of the business.
management which could compromise his independence.
John intends to offer himself annually for re-election to the board.
All directors are provided with comprehensive papers, in advance of all board meetings and attend key meetings regularly in the The board of directors organisation.
In addition, directors attend impromptu meetings The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that the strategy with senior managers within the business.
for J D Wetherspoons business is appropriate and implemented effectively.
Those matters reserved for the board and the authorities There is clear and documented division of responsibilities delegated to management are contained in the matters reserved for between the chairman and the chief executive officer.
the board schedule, as well as in the various policies, covering such The division is set out below.
matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, internal audit and risk management.
The board comprises the following members: Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the board The chief executive is responsible for the smooth daily and ensuring that all directors are fully informed of matters running of the business relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the company to Developing and maintaining effective management controls, exchange of contracts within controlled procedures planning and performance measurements Providing support, advice and feedback to the chief executive Maintaining and developing an effective organisational structure Supporting the company strategy and encourage the chief executive External and internal communications in conjunction with the with development of the strategy chairman, on any issues facing the company Maintaining relations with investors Implementing and monitoring compliance with board policies Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational meetings Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board and agreeing board agendas Management of chief executive contract, appraisal and Recruiting and managing senior managers in the business remuneration by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior managers Developing and maintaining effective risk-management and of the company regulatory controls Providing the ethos and vision of the company Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders Providing operational presence across the estate Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the company strategy ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, During the year ended 29 July 2007, non-executive directors met information which enables them to make informed decisions on without the chairman and provided feedback to the chairman corporate and business issues, including operational and following their meetings.
Topics covered include successionfinancial performance.
In particular, the board receives monthly planning, the provision of information to the board and the overall information on the financial trading performance of the company effectiveness of the board.
The directors concluded that the board and a comprehensive finance report which includes operational and its committees continue to work effectively.
All directors receive sales and margin information for the company, weekly, by trading unit.
In accordance with the Code and corporate governance best practice, the board has several established committees as set out The articles require that one-third of the directors retire by below.
The board met eight times during the year ended 29 July rotation, subject to the requirement that each director seek 2007: attendance of the directors and non-executives, where re-election every three years.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8 3 1 1 Tim Martin 5 N A N A N A John Hutson 8 N A N A N A Jim Clarke 8 3 N A N A John Herring 8 3 1 1 Elizabeth McMeikan 6 3 1 1 Debra van Gene 7 2 1 1 Jim Clarke, in his role of finance director, attends audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant financial matters.
Matters reserved for the board Finance The following matters are reserved for the board: Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities Specific risk-management policies, including insurance, Board and management hedging and borrowing limits Structure and senior management responsibilities Final approval of annual and interim accounts and Nomination of directors accounting policies Appointment of chairman and company secretary Appointment of external auditors Strategic matters Legal matters Strategic, financing or adoption of new business plans, Consideration of regular reports on material issues in respect of any material aspect of the company relating to any litigation affecting the company Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed Business control certain values Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Internal audit Secretarial Authority limits for heads of department Call of all shareholder meetings Delegation of board powers Operating budgets Disclosure of directors interests The entry into finance and operating leases of a certain capital value General Investments and capital projects exceeding set value Board framework of executive remuneration and costs Changes in major supply contracts Any other matters not within the terms of reference of any committee of the board Any other matter as determined from time to time by the board 22 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees Nomination committee A formal nomination committee has been established, comprising Audit committee John Herring chairman, Debra van Gene and Elizabeth The committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises McMeikan.
The nomination committee meets as appropriate Elizabeth McMeikan and Debra van Gene.
Representatives of the and considers all possible board appointments and also the companys external auditors,  LLP, re-election of directors, both executive and non-executive.
attend audit committee meetings at the half year and year end.
No director is involved in any decision about his or her own One of the members of the committee was not independent, re-appointment.
One of the members of the committee was not under the terms of the Code.
independent, under the terms of the Code.
In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively The terms of reference of the nomination committee are available performs the following: on request.
Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Company secretary compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the All directors have access to the advice of the company secretary, external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost who is responsible to the board for ensuring that procedures are and effectiveness.
The appointment and removal of the company Reviews the scope and nature of the work to be performed by secretary is reserved for the consideration of the board as a the external auditors, before audit commences.
Procedures are in place for seeking independent A full review of the half-year and annual financial statements.
professional advice, at the companys expense.
Ensures compliance with accounting standards.
Ensures compliance with stock exchange, legal and regulatory Relations with shareholders requirements.
The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all board Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and members are kept aware of both the views of major shareholders formal announcements relating to the financial performance of and changes in the major shareholdings of the company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective communication include: Considers the findings of the internal audit report and management responses at the half year and year end.
The annual general meeting, considered to be an important Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems.
forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board.
Final review of the companys statement on internal control Regular feedback from the companys stockbrokers.
systems, before endorsement by the board.
Interim, full and ongoing announcements are circulated to Review of any aspect of the accounts or the companys control shareholders.
and audit procedures, the interim and final audits and any other Any significant changes in shareholder movement are notified matters which the auditors may consider.
to the board by the company secretary, when necessary.
Ensured that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and The company secretary maintains procedures and agreements brought to the attention of the board.
in place for all announcements to the City.
Review of all risk-management systems adopted and There is a programme of regular meetings between investors implemented by the company.
and directors of the company, including the senior independent director, as appropriate.
The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated by the secretary of the committee to all members of the board.
At Risk management the annual general meeting of the company, the audit committee The board is responsible for the companys risk-management chairman, John Herring, is available to answer questions on process.
The finance director, Jim Clarke, chairs the companys financial control and reporting.
risk-management committee, comprising senior management within the business.
The committee meets four times a year and The audit committee is aware of the companys process reports twice yearly to the audit committee.
The key functions of regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed its effectiveness.
the committee are set out below.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available To review, on behalf of the company and the board, the key on request.
risks which have an impact on the business and systems of control necessary to manage such risks.
Remuneration committee To maintain a risk register for each area of the business and The companys remuneration committee is chaired by John review quarterly.
Herring and comprises Debra van Gene and Elizabeth McMeikan.
To review the effectiveness of the companys The directors report on remuneration is set out on pages 12 to risk-management process.
One of the members of the committee was not independent, To report to the board twice yearly, and as necessary, any under the terms of the Code.
identified risk and mitigation plans implemented.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control During the year, the company and the board continued to The company has key controls in place, as follows: support and invest in resource to provide an internal audit and risk-management function.
The system of internal control and risk Clearly defined authority limits and controls over cash-handling, mitigation is deeply embedded in the operations and the culture purchasing commitments and capital expenditure.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound Comprehensive budgeting process in place, with a detailed system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The operating plan for twelve months and a mid-term financial plan, function can only manage, rather than eliminate entirely the risk both approved by the board.
of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only Business results are reported weekly for key times, with a reasonable and not absolute assurance against material monthly comprehensive report in full, and compared with budget.
Ongoing reviews and assessments took Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, place continually throughout the year under review and up to the for review by the board.
date of the approval of the annual report.
Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions on treasury matters are reserved by the board.
The company has an internal audit function which is discharged The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness as follows: of the system of internal control.
Regular reviews of the amount of external insurance which it Regular audits of the company stock.
obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs Unannounced visits to the retail units.
and the likelihood of the risks involved.
Monitoring systems which control the company cash.
Directors insurance cover is maintained.
Health & safety visits ensuring compliance with the company procedures.
Review and assess the impact of legislative and regulatory change.
Jim Clarke Annual review of the companys strategy, including a review of Company Secretary risks facing the business.
7 September 2007 Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing the business Company Risk Register.
