Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Combined Code Director, taking into account the views of the Executive The Company is committed to the principles of corporate Directors: the Committees are evaluated by the senior Nongovernance contained in the Combined Code of Corporate executive along with the Chief Executive taking into account Governance that is appended to the Listing Rules of the the views of the other Executive Directors: the Non-executive Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is Directors, excluding the Chairman, are evaluated by the accountable to shareholders.
It is, however, accepted that Chairman and Chief Executive, taking into account the views there are three items of non-compliance, concerning: Board of the other Executive Directors: and the Board as a whole composition, Non-executive Director terms of appointment evaluate the performance of the Board.
and the setting of the Chairmans remuneration by the Board.
Viscount Asquith is the senior independent Non-executive These matters are further discussed on pages 41 and 42.
Director and, at the Boards request, maintains a special The Board composition is currently being addressed, but the interest in the strategic issues in PPC, supporting the JKX Company continues to believe the other two items remain Executive Directors and the PPC senior management as reasonable.
The Board All Directors have access to the services of the Company The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for leading, Secretary and may, if needed, obtain independent professional developing and protecting the interests of the Company, advice, at the Companys expense, in the execution of their comprises three Non-executive Directors and four Executive duties.
Directors, the details of whom are contained on pages 36 and 37.
In addition to Board meetings, the Non-executive Directors There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the meet in private session: both as a group and without the Company through the separation of positions of the NonChairman, at least annually.
executive Chairman, Lord Fraser and the Chief Executive It is confirmed that all the Non-executive Directors have Officer, Dr Paul Davies.
The Non-executive Directors are of sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company and varied backgrounds and experience and the Board considers that no Executive Director holds a non-executive directorship, them to exercise independent and objective judgment.
nor chairmanship, in a FTSE 100 company.
Matters reserved specifically for the Board are clearly laid down.
The Board: sets and monitors strategy: reviews business Attendance at meetings plans, trading performance and overhead costs: approves The attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and Audit and major capital investment projects: examines acquisition Remuneration meetings during 2007 was as detailed below.
opportunities: divestment possibilities and significant financial Audit committee meetings and operational issues: and reviews and approves the 15 Mar 2007 12 Jul 2007 24 Sep 2007 Companys financial statements and control and risk John Mapplebeck n a n a management systems.
In executing these responsibilities the Nigel Moore n a Board relies on the receipt of accurate, timely and clear Lord Fraser information, the dissemination of which is the responsibility of Viscount Asquith the Chairman.
All other authorities are delegated by the Board, supported by appropriate controls, to the Chief Executive Officer Remuneration committee meetings on behalf of senior management.
18 Jan 2007 15 Mar 2007 24 Sep 2007 Evaluation of the performance of Directors, the Board and its John Mapplebeck n a committees is undertaken as follows: the Executive Directors Nigel Moore n a are evaluated by the Non-executive Directors in informal Lord Fraser session: the Chairman is evaluated by the other Non-executive Viscount Asquith Board meetings 18 Jan 2007 15 Mar 2007 26 Jun 2007 23 Jul 2007 13 Aug 2007 24 Sep 2007 9 Nov 2007 14 Dec 2007 Lord Fraser Viscount Asquith By phone By phone John Mapplebeck resigned 26 June 2007 n a n a n a n a n a n a Nigel Moore appointed 26 June 2007 n a n a n a By phone Paul Davies Bruce Burrows Bob Dall resigned 26 June 2007 n a n a n a n a n a n a Martin Miller appointed 26 June 2007 n a n a n a By phone Peter Dixon appointed 26 June 2007 n a n a n a 40 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Compliance B.
2.2 The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company Non-executive Directors, which includes the Chairman.
The has maintained procedures and policies that ensured setting of the Chairmans remuneration is the responsibility compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the of the Board and not the Remuneration Committee.
The Combined Code and the related Financial Services Authority Board believes this is appropriate given the Board size.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require that companies report on the Audit Committee extent to which they comply with the Principles of Good The Audit Committee currently comprises the three NonGovernance and Code of Best Practice.
The Board believes the executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Nigel Moore, who as Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set a former audit partner with Ernst & Young LLP possesses out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following both recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Moore was exceptions: appointed Chairman of the Committee on 26 June 2007 upon the resignation of Mr John Mapplebeck.
3.2 Excluding the Chairman, independent Non-executive Directors do not comprise at least 50% of the Board.
The The Audit Committee, which has Terms of Reference agreed by Board considers that the Chairman and the two other Nonthe Board and available to shareholders on request, meets at executive Directors are wholly independent.
In March 2008 least three times a year to: review the Companys accounting the Executive Directors undertook a review of the policies: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements independence of each of the Non-executive Directors and of the Company and any announcements relating to the Chairman.
The review addressed the matters highlighted Companys financial performance, reviewing significant at Section A.
3.1 of the Code, which could appear to affect financial reporting judgments contained in them: to review the a Directors judgment.
It was noted that Viscount Asquith Companys internal financial controls: to review internal control as of 1 January 2008 no longer receives fees for providing and risk management systems and compliance procedures: to consulting services to the Company and PPC, although he report to the Board any matters which it considers actions or did receive such fees during the calendar year 2007.
One improvement are needed with associated recommendations specific matter addressed was Lord Fraser and Viscount as to steps to be taken: and to make recommendations to the Asquith having both served on the Board for more than nine Board, for it to put to shareholders for their approval in general years.
Following the review, the Non-executive Directors meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and do not consider that this matter in any way influence the removal of the external auditor and to approve the independent judgment of Lord Fraser or Viscount Asquith.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Consultancy fees paid to John Mapplebeck, prior to his During 2007, the Committee met three times with each resignation on 26 June 2007 related purely to his position Committee member attending all meetings held whilst they as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committee sat on the Committee except Lord Fraser who did not attend and in no way influenced his independent judgment.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance In the opinion of the Board, the appointment of an Director.
additional Non-executive Director is now appropriate and is being addressed by the Nominations Committee in 2008.
The Audit Committee reviews each of the Companys A.
7.2 The terms of appointment of the Non-executive subsidiaries, interests and activities at least once a year: site Directors are set out in their service contracts, which for visits are also undertaken.
Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith are dated 1 January 2002, The Audit Committee maintains an objective and professional and for Nigel Moore is dated 12 July 2007 and include a relationship with the Companys auditors and meets in private termination notice of three months by either party.
session with them at least once a year.
From time-to-time, the However, the service contracts are for an indefinite term, auditor is requested to perform non-audit engagements for not a finite term, subject to re-election on an as required the Group.
In such instances the continued objectivity and basis.
The Board continues to believe this is appropriate independence of the auditors in their capacity of auditor is given the company size, non-executive skill set, and an objective of the Group.
To meet this objective the Audit evaluation of performance and independence on an Committee is delegated the role of vetting the appointment of ongoing basis with regards to Non-executives.
As stated the auditor on specific engagements including considerations in the 2006 annual report, the Company contracted Mercer of materiality and, where necessary, requiring a competitive to review the remuneration of Non-executive Directors, tender for such work.
Mercers report included a review of the alignment of JKXs Non-executive remuneration with The Company promotes a culture of openness and in best practice corporate governance.
Despite the review encouraging staff to, in confidence, raise any concerns of confirming that the unspecified term of appointment was possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other misaligned with corporate best practice, the Company has matters.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements for decided the unspecified term continues to be reasonable such concerns to be raised, investigated and if necessary and the Non-executive contracts remain unchanged in followed up.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 41 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee has reviewed the Revised Combined by an additional Non-executive Director a matter being Code, specifically Section C that addresses Audit Committee addressed by the Committee in 2008. aspects, and considers that it complies with all the provisions identified apart from the provision concerning the need to have Internal control a dedicated internal audit function which is not established for The Board is responsible for identifying and evaluating the the reasons listed below.
Areas of non-compliance in addition major business risks faced by the Company and for to Section C are listed above.
determining and monitoring the appropriate course of action to manage these risks.
The Audit Committee monitors the Remuneration Committee integrity of the financial statements and financial statement The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three announcements, reviews the Companys internal control Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Viscount Asquith, processes and risk management systems and reports its who was appointed Chairman of the committee on 26 June conclusions to the Board.
2007 upon the resignation of Mr John Mapplebeck.
The The Board regularly conducts reviews, and has reviewed, for Companys Chairman, Lord Fraser, is included on the the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Committee to meet its objective of being comprised of three 2007 Annual Report and Accounts, the effectiveness of the members.
The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by Companys systems of internal control and risk management invitation.
and has concluded that the Companys procedures, policies and The Remuneration Committee which has terms of reference systems are appropriate and suitable to enable the Board to agreed by the Board and available to shareholders on request, safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, meets at least twice a year, to assist the Board in determining and comply with Turnbull Guidance.
the remuneration arrangements and contracts of the Directors The Audit Committee annually reviews, and has reviewed for and senior employees.
2007, the need for a dedicated internal audit function and, as During 2007, the Remuneration Committee met three times noted above, has recommended to the Board that, due to the with each of the members attending each of the meetings held scale and geographic distribution of the Companys licences whilst they were members.
and operating interests, the Board continues to be best served by utilising external specialist assistance on dedicated business No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
and financial risk areas to supplement the Companys own The report of the Directors remuneration, which involves risk analysis.
The process and systems of internal control are details of the Directors interest in options together with designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to information on service contracts, is set out on pages 44 to 50. achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Revised or loss.
Combined Code, specifically Section B that addresses the level, make-up and procedural aspects of remuneration.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are described The Remuneration Committee considers that it complies with below.
In addition, the Companys independent auditors present all the provisions and practices identified with the exception of reports to the Audit Committee, which include any significant provision B2.2 concerning the setting of the Chairmans internal control matters that they have identified as part of their remuneration for the reasons listed above.
Nomination Committee Business risk The members of the Nomination Committee are the three An ongoing process is in place to enable the Board to identify Non-executives, Lord Fraser Chairman, Viscount Asquith the major business, operational, financial and compliance risks and Mr Nigel Moore.
The Nomination Committee did not meet faced by the Company and to determine the appropriate course formally in 2007. of action to manage and monitor these risks.
This process is Separate to the Nomination Committee, the Board discuss the regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and reported to the skill set and experience of the individual Board members, the Board as appropriate.
need for additional appointments, succession planning and the The Company identifies and distinguishes High Profile Events, need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The most recent i. e. those risks that could have material effect on the comprehensive review was undertaken in 2005.
During 2007, Companys financial position or reputation, from other business the Board reviewed the need for additional appointments and risks that it assesses and considers to be acceptable for the decided that the composition of the Board would be enhanced 42 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Company to bear taking into account the industry and the Quality and integrity of personnel markets in which it operates.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
Annually, the Audit Committee reviews the Companys High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the subsidiaries and investments from a business, operational and control environment and the ethical standards expected are financial risk perspective to ensure that the system of internal communicated through the corporate accounting and control and accountability is embedded in the operations of the procedures manual.
Members of the Audit Committee visit subsidiaries and operations on a regular basis.
Investment appraisal The Audit Committee considers that management are fully Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary process and aware of the need to identify and assess risks in their authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, operations and the effect of changes in the business detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
environment, to respond quickly and appropriately and to report Capital expenditures are reviewed with major overruns in terms immediately any significant control failings and weaknesses of cost and time being investigated.
that are identified together with details of corrective action.
The internal financial control situation is reported to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system Management structure of internal financial controls as it operated during the year and The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a reported its conclusions to the Board.
formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each Executive has been given responsibility and is Communication with shareholders accountable for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Extensive information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which Financial reporting are sent to shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with The Company maintains an effective and reliable accounting institutional shareholders for which the Board, as a whole, and management information system.
The Board receives a has responsibility, and enquiries from individuals on matters monthly report that monitors actual performance against relating to their shareholding and the business of the Group budget and forecast for oil and gas production: sales and costs: are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely and provides the Board with information amongst other things manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM on debtors, the cash position, cash flow forecasting and to the to discuss the progress of the Group.
financial implications of key sensitivities including changes in commodity prices and exchange rates.
Going concern After making inquiries and taking into consideration the Budgetary process Ukrainian and Russian business environments, as detailed in Each year the Board approves the annual budget with key risk note 30 of the accounts, together with reviewing the Companys areas identified.
Performance is monitored and relevant action budget for 2008 and its medium-term plans, the Directors have taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The year together with information on the key risk areas.
going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
Corporate accounting and procedures manual Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate accounting and procedures manual which sets out, inter alia, the general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and control procedures together with accounting policies and procedures.
The manual, which includes policies common By order of the Board to all Group companies along with company-specific Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie procedures and controls are reviewed regularly and updated Chairman as required.
2 April 2008 The application of internal financial control and operational procedures are reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by Head Office staff.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 43
