42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance Statement of Compliance Discharge of its responsibilities This report has been prepared in accordance with the revised The Board met four times in 2007 for two days on each occasion.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 With effect from January 2008 the Board has decided to increase the Code which applies for the period covered by this report.
the frequency of its meetings to a minimum of six per year.
The directors consider that the company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December The Board has a schedule of matters speci cally reserved for its 2007. consideration and approval, and this was reviewed and updated during the year.
It is responsible for Group strategy, the annual The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate budget, signi cant acquisitions and the overall system of internal governance.
Executive management is responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing The Code requires the Board to state its reasons for considering a the business.
The Board has received detailed presentations from non-executive director to be independent if he has served for more senior management within the Groups businesses during the year than nine years.
Mr J Morgan, who has served as a non-executive in connection with the Boards review of Group strategy, including director for more than nine years, will offer himself for re-election at regular presentations on the Groups current health and safety the 2008 AGM and annually thereafter in compliance with the Code.
The Board gave detailed consideration to reports on The Board believes that Mr Morgan is independent in character and the Groups systems of internal control and presentations were made judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances on speci c countries in which the Group maintains a signi cant that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
Morgan is not dependent on the company for his primary source of income and does not participate in any of the companys bonus, The Board receives appropriate and timely information from option or incentive schemes.
The Board considers Mr Morgans management to enable it to perform its duties, including monthly experience, outstanding service and long term perspective on reports on financial and operating issues.
the Groups activities and strategy to be valuable assets which contribute signi cantly to their deliberations.
Induction and Training The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board Board of Directors meetings and brie ngs arranged on issues relating to corporate governance.
Newly appointed directors undertake an induction Composition and independence process designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of At 31 December 2007 the Board comprised thirteen directors, the Groups business.
This includes brie ng sessions during regular made up of six executive and seven non-executive directors.
Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites and discussion The Board has agreed a division of responsibilities between the of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, directors Chairman and the Chief Executive in compliance with the Code: are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations as Sir Ian Wood performs the role of Chairman and Mr A G Langlands directors of a listed company.
All directors received a brie ng this operates as Chief Executive Of cer.
Dr C Masters is the senior year on the new Companies Act 2006. independent director.
There is a procedure for any director to take independent Two Executive Directors, Mr T M Noble and Mr W R Brooks retired professional advice at the Groups expense and all directors have during the course of 2007. access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the Boards procedures are followed.
Mr M Straughen and Mr J B Renfroe were elected to the Board as executive directors on 1 May 2007 and 26 February 2008 Board performance evaluation respectively and Mr D Woodward was elected to the Board as In 2007 the Board completed a formal evaluation of its own a non-executive director at the AGM on 23 May 2007.
There is performance and of its committees, individual directors, and a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new of the Chairman.
This involved directors completing detailed directors to the Board.
In the case of these appointments, this questionnaires, the results of which were analysed by the Company process began with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge Secretary.
The objective was to determine whether each director and experience of the existing Board.
Appointments during the year continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate were made on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, commitment to the role.
A presentation of the results was made following a selection process involving the interview of a number of to the full Board.
The results were discussed both at a full Board candidates and using the services of independent executive search meeting and separate meetings between each non-executive consultants specialising in board level recruitment.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, are responsible for the performance After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its nonevaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors to be independent in character and judgement executive directors.
As a result of the evaluation criteria, Board and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely procedures were changed to increase the minimum number of to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies annual Board meetings to six.
of the directors appear on pages 38 and 39.
All directors, executive and non-executive, must submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 43 Committees of the Board Discharge of its responsibilities The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to The Audit Committee met three times in 2007.
Attendance committees the Audit Committee, the Remuneration at Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A summary of the the Committee: however the Group Finance Director, Group work of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee is Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external set out below, whilst the report of the Remuneration Committee auditors are generally invited to attend.
The Head of Internal is included in the Directors remuneration report on page 48.
Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and met the The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups Committee without management present during 2007. website.
At its meetings in 2007 the Committee reviewed the Annual Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its Report for 2006, the Groups 2007 interim announcement and Committees is summarised below the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
These reviews included Board Audit Remuneration Nominations discussions with management, and the external auditors, Committee Committee Committee of signi cant issues and areas of financial risk, accounting Number of meetings held in 2007 4 3 2 4 principles, practices and judgements Executive Directors consideration with the external auditors of the signi cant Sir Ian Wood 4 4 matters arising from the annual external audit AG Langlands 4 review of reports prepared by the internal audit function AG Semple 4 LJ Thomas 4 together with managements response and the actions taken WR Brooks 1 focus on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental MH Papworth 3 areas M Straughen 3 TM Noble 1 External auditor independence and non audit services Non-executive Directors The Committee has a key oversight role in respect to the Dr C Masters 4 3 4 R Monti 3 1 3 engagement and ongoing relationship with the Groups JC Morgan 4 3 2 4 external auditor,  PwC, and has DJ Ogren 4 2 4 overall responsibility for ensuring that the external auditors NH Smith 4 1 4 independence and objectivity is not compromised.
ID Marchant 4 3 4 D Woodward 3 3 One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee Committee considers and approves fees in respect of nonaudit services provided by the external auditors in accordance Committee composition and responsibilities with the Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the The Audit Committee comprises four independent nonAudit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of non audit executive Directors, Dr. C Masters Chairman, Mr J C Morgan, services provided in 2007 is reported in note 3 to the financial Mr I D Marchant and, from December 2007, Mr D Woodward.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board considers these non audit services did not impair their independence.
that Mr I D Marchant has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, PwC has established policies and procedures to ensure that and has written terms of reference setting out its roles and those in a position to in uence the conduct of their audit act with responsibilities.
PwC provides an annual con rmation of their independence from the Group and, if there These responsibilities include are any, details of any relationship between them and the Group reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial which could impact their objectivity and independence.
controls monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function reviewing the terms of engagement and independence of the external auditors Below: Chick Houseman, An Locke-Pope and Jai Dhodi assessing the audit process and the effectiveness of the external auditors to supply non audit services monitoring the Group policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non audit services reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or other improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee Monitoring of the internal control systems The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing Committee composition and responsibilities basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Ian Wood Chairman Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the and all of the independent non-executive directors.
The Committee effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented meets at least once a year to review the Board structure, size and by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where composition, make recommendations to the Board with regard to appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit any changes, to identify and nominate candidates for the approval Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
of the Board, to ll Board vacancies and to ensure that succession plans are in place.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes Discharge of its responsibilities monthly reports and comprehensive quarterly reports.
The quarterly The Committee met four times during 2007.
The appointments of reports include a detailed financial review against budgets, and, Mr M Straughen on 1 May 2007, Mr D Woodward on 23 May 2007 twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also and Mr J B Renfroe on 26 February 2008 are described on page 42. receive detailed monthly financial reports.
In addition, each division performed a quarterly update involving discussions with senior Internal Control managers and certain of the executive directors, including the Chief The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal Executive.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Relations with shareholders The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Group places considerable importance on communication with evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group all shareholders, both institutional and private.
that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report, see pages 46-47.
The process The Group maintains open channels of communication with is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the its institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts and, revised guidance on internal controls published in October 2005 within the constraints of publicly available information, has regular by the Turnbull review group: Internal Control Revised Guidance discussions about the Groups strategy and performance.
To provide for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Group, for the purposes the Group with an insight into shareholder needs, the Groups of applying the Turnbull Committee guidance referred to above, brokers are invited to make an annual presentation to the Board on comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint investor perceptions of the Group.
The Group is committed to maintaining a high standard in its investor Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than relations programmes, and during 2007 two major investor road eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can shows were held.
In addition, an investor and analyst presentation only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material going into greater detail on two of the Groups business areas and misstatement or loss.
offering investors and analysts the opportunity to meet with a wider management team was held.
The key elements of the ongoing procedures which the directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend control on an annual basis include the following: meetings with major shareholders and are available to shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
Overall control environment The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including The AGM, which will be held on 22 May 2008, is a valuable fide ned lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group opportunity for private shareholders to have face to face contact with has issued policies which fide ne the standards of business conduct the Board and to raise any questions they may have.
and include Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, Safety and Environment: and Business Ethics.
Consistent with the Business The senior independent director and Chairman are available to meet Ethics Policy, advice lines have been established to enable staff to with major shareholders to discuss any areas of concern that cannot raise ethical concerns in con dence.
be resolved through normal channels of investor communication and arrangements can be made through the Company Secretary.
Risk identi cation and management Each divisions management team is responsible for the process of identi cation and evaluation Going concern of signi cant operational, financial and compliance risks and for Having made the appropriate enquiries, the directors consider, in the design and operation of effective internal controls.
The Board accordance with the Code, that the business is a going concern.
receives regular updates from management on the key risks and the Adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational related controls.
The Board formally reviews the Groups exposure to existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to key business risks at least once a year.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 45 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing: the Annual Report and financial statements, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, or UKGAAP: and the directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law.
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements described above for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and pro t and loss of the Group and of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether the Groups financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, with regards to the parent company financial statements, whether United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements The directors con rm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant audit information is fide ned as information needed Below: Graham Duncan, Nikki Walters and Mark Payton by the companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken in his duty as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
