CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability, Audit and Control continued A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social responsibility CSR is set out on pages 25 to 33.
A full version of The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups the CSR report is available on the companys website.
systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit The identification, assessment and management of environment, Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and health and safety EHS risks are the responsibility of the CSR receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief regular basis.
Actions are agreed with management in response to Executives Committee, comprising the division directors, the the internal audit reports produced.
Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and other appropriate professional staff.
Performance is monitored using monthly statistics In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the and detailed site audit reports.
EHS performance is reviewed on a maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance regular basis by the Chief Executives Committee and an annual with group policies.
These assessments are summarised by the review is undertaken by the board.
internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Committee.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and assessed by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the board.
The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year ended 31st March 2007 and the period up to 5th June 2007 has Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further operational system of internal control.
The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social Corporate Social Responsibility responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical internal audit function.
and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and the Chief Executives Committee.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT authorised by the board to take such independent advice including Role of the Nomination Committee legal or other professional advice, at the companys expense as it The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose considers necessary, including requests for information from or purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, commissioning investigations by external advisers.
dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the Main Activities of the Nomination Committee companys website at www.
During the financial year ended 31st March 2007, the Nomination Committee conducted a process to identify additional non-executive Composition of the Nomination Committee directors for the company with the assistance of external search The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent consultants.
Open advertising was not used.
The Nomination non-executive directors together with the group Chairman.
The Committee met three times during the year in connection with the quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of selection process.
The Committee met on 20th November 2006 whom must be an independent non-executive director.
Biographical to review the selection process, on 23rd January 2007 at which details of the independent directors and the group Chairman are set it recommended the appointment of Mr M J Roney to the board, out on pages 34 and 35.
Their remuneration is set out on page 44. and on 27th March 2007 at which it recommended the appointment The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, of Mrs D C Thompson to the board.
As announced on 16th April although the group Chairman may not chair the Committee when it 2007, Mr Roney joined the board as a non-executive director with is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the effect from 1st June 2007.
As announced on 30th May 2007, company.
A non-executive director may not chair the Committee Mrs Thompson will join the board as a non-executive director with when it is dealing with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, other individuals, such as the Chief Executive, On behalf of the Committee: the Director of Human Resources and external advisers, may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that it Sir John Banham requires from any officer or employee of the company or its Chairman of the Nomination Committee subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is 40 Johnson Matthey
