CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of with minimum disruption.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for performance and the performance of its committees and the financial reporting, internal control and audit.
A questionnaire, prepared by the Chairman with describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
The the assistance of the Company Secretary, was completed by all group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout directors other than the Chairman.
The questionnaire focused on the the year except that the board has taken the view that it is not operation of the board, its committees and individual directors necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the contributions.
A summary of the responses was prepared by the Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting.
In addition, shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors discussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods by which met without the Chairman present to consider evaluation of the major shareholders views are communicated to the board as a Chairmans performance.
whole are discussed under Relations with Shareholders on page 39.
Committees of the Board Directors and the Board The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
It is also and the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately responsible for the executive management of the groups business.
responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to monthly.
It comprises the executive directors and three senior review the groups long term strategy.
The board delegates specific executives of the company.
responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
The board The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company Secretary responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
The is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors, Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
in respect of board procedures.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive.
The board currently group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Sir John A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 41.
Banham became Chairman on 1st April 2006 following the retirement The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board of Mr H M P Miles.
Sir John Banhams other commitments are responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on disclosed on page 34.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are the appointment of new directors.
The Committee is chaired by Sir separate.
The Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, John Banham and also comprises all the independent non-executive particularly the non-executive directors, is able to make an effective directors.
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on contribution.
He monitors, with assistance from the Company page 40.
Secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is The Management Development and Remuneration Committee sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains MDRC is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on day-to-day management responsibility for the companys operations, behalf of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
implementing group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the Mr C D Mackay is the Senior Independent Director.
The role of independent non-executive directors of the company together with non-executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity the group Chairman who was appointed to the Committee during of the boards deliberations and decisions.
All non-executive directors the year.
The Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources are independent of management and free from any business or attend by invitation except when their own performance and other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise remuneration are discussed.
Further details are set out in the of their independent judgment.
The executive directors have specific Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48. responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 34 and 35, and have direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
38 Johnson Matthey CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committees of the Board continued Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2006 07 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 1 Sir John Banham 7 7 2 4 33 4 1 1 1 N A P Carson 7 7 4 3 4 M BDearden 7 7443344 P NHawker 7 7 C DMackay 77443344 D WMorgan 7 7 L CPentz 7 7 1 J N Sheldrick 7 7 4 I C Strachan 7 6 4 4 3 3 4 3 A MThomson 77443344 R J WWalvis 77443344 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
Directors Remuneration Accountability, Audit and Control The Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48 includes details of The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
of the Annual Report and the accounts is set out on page 48.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a Relations with Shareholders balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and prospects.
The board considers effective communication with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, The groups organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
These are all separately managed but report to the board through a board director.
The executive management team receives monthly The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its summaries of financial results from each division through a half year and full year results are announced and an interim report standardised reporting process.
and a full report are issued to shareholders.
These reports are posted on Johnson Mattheys website www.
At the The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to including forecasts for the next two years.
Variances from budget institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other are closely monitored.
Copies of major presentations are also posted The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of on the companys website.
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The internal The companys annual general meeting AGM takes place in control systems are designed to meet the groups needs and London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the address the risks to which it is exposed.
Such systems can provide Annual Report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material The directors are available for questions, formally during the AGM misstatement or loss.
Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and the notice of the meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
managing the significant risks faced by the company, which has Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the been in place during the year under review and up to the date of Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The board regularly their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the major shareholders.
The board believes that appropriate steps have board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level, the been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
The board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group canvassing of major shareholders views for the board in a detailed operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and investor survey is usually conducted every two years by external authority limits of the various board and executive committees and consultants.
The board has taken the view that these methods, also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for the Chairman supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on governance and issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or strategy and for the Senior Independent Director to learn the views departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with of major shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical their issues and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director is controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
