AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee Independence of External Auditors The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had responsibilities include: safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in Reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: announcements of the company and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance Audit related services the external auditors are invited to and recommending them to the board for approval.
provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or are best placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other risk management.
regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys disposals.
internal audit function and considering regular reports from Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
All other significant tax consulting work is put Considering the appointment of the external auditors: overseeing out to tender.
the process for their selection: and making recommendations to General consulting in recognition of public concern over the the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our for approval at a general meeting.
policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of general consulting work.
the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit, The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports on the 31st March 2007 and information on the nature of non-audit fees companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation appear in note 5 on the accounts.
of the systems of internal financial control and risk management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on Internal Audit the companys website at www.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during Composition of the Audit Committee the year and the departments resource requirements and also The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2008. directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control processes out on pages 34 and 35.
Their remuneration is set out on page 44. operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson.
The accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk auditors without management being present.
The Company management framework surrounding the major business risks.
Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve Main Activities of the Audit Committee the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to senior management and The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended the Audit Committee.
At its meeting on 24th May 2006 the Committee reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of its results for The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal the financial year ended 31st March 2006, and the draft report and Audit on the departments work and findings.
The Committee received reports from the The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and their comments on risk management and control matters.
The Committee reviewed the groups Corporate Social Responsibility On behalf of the Committee: Report which is available on the companys website at www.
The Committee also reviewed shareholder resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee met on 24th July 2006 to receive reports on internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
The external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for Alan Thomson the forthcoming year.
The Committee also reviewed the performance Chairman of the Audit Committee of both the internal and external auditors.
At its meeting on 20th November 2006 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys interim results, the half year report and the external auditors review.
At its meeting on 23rd January 2007 the Audit Committee reviewed managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of the companys systems for internal financial control and risk management.
The Committee reviewed the groups credit control procedures and risks, controls over precious metals, IT controls and corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements.
Changes to the Group Control Manual were ratified.
