Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address any concerns that Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate shareholders may have, which have not been resolved through Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting the normal communication channels of the Chairman or Executive Council The Code for which the Board is accountable to Directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Statement of Compliance with The Code of Best Practice Committees are Mr S J Waugh, Mr I S M Russell, who is a The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions chartered accountant, and Mr R G Parry respectively.
Mr I S M of The Code set out in Section 1 of The Code.
Russell replaced Mr P E B Cawdron as Chair of Audit Committee in August 2007.
Statement of Application of The Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of The Board Attendance Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles During 2007, every director attended all meetings with the have been applied is set out below and, in connection with exception that Mr H C M Johnston was unable to attend the directors remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
January meeting, Mr F P M Johnston the June strategy meeting, Mr I S M Russell the June Board meeting, Mr S J Waugh the Board Effectiveness December meeting and Mr L F Hinton the January, August and The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading October meetings.
In advance of the formal Board meeting in and controlling the Company by meeting nine times in the year, October, led by the Senior Independent Director, the Directors but can meet when necessary for any matters which may arise.
excluding the Chairman met and, as part of the agenda of that The Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions and the meeting, appraised the performance of the Chairman.
Also in Audit and Nomination Committees three times each.
October, the Board met without the Executive Directors and Company Secretary being present.
The Board sets the strategic aims and objectives of the Group, ensuring that the Group has sufficient financial and human The meetings of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination resources to meet its objectives.
The Board also sets the Groups Committees were attended by all members either personally or values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its by telephone.
shareholders and others are understood and met.
Management are responsible for the application of the aims and objectives on a Board Balance day-to-day basis, as well as monitoring the financial achievements Of the Companys current nine Directors, three are Executive and of the business.
The Board reviews the performance of the remainder Non-Executive, of whom four are regarded as management in meeting the agreed objectives and goals, plans independent, excluding the Chairman.
the succession of key executives, and determines appropriate remuneration levels.
Lord Gordon of Strathblane and Mr H C M Johnston retired at the Annual General Meeting in April 2007 and Mr L F Hinton resigned The core values of the Board are integrity, independence and from the Board on 11 December 2007. objectivity.
All Directors must take decisions in the interests of the Company.
Mr F P M Johnston is regarded as non-independent because he has a significant shareholding in the Company and previously At least one Board meeting each year is wholly devoted to strategy served the Group in an executive role.
It is the view of the Board and to the consideration of a plan for the long term growth and that such circumstances do not lessen the value of the development of the Group.
This is reviewed and discussed as contributions made by Mr F P M Johnston.
appropriate at the other Board meetings held during the year.
Mr R G Parry has served for more than nine years on the Board.
In addition to the normal agenda at Board meetings, which is The Board is unanimously of the view that he should continue to described below, the directors consider one operational or special serve as a Director and Chairman.
The recent Board evaluation topic at each meeting.
During the last twelve months this has process concluded that Mr R G Parry has all the appropriate skills included a review of the 2006 Companies Act, circulation and and credentials to continue to lead the Company as Chairman.
audience reach of paid for newspapers, the work of the Groups Editorial Review Group, the IT strategy, national sales, digital Mr P E B Cawdron served nine years on the Board in August 2007. publishing and human resources trends and issues.
The unanimous view of the Board is that his experience and professional knowledge is invaluable to the Board, and that he Board Meeting Agenda continues to be independent.
He plans to retire from the Board at The Board receives a formal schedule of matters specifically the AGM in 2009. reserved to it for decision, such as future strategy, acquisitions and disposals, dividend policy, approval of the Annual Report and All Directors who have served for more than nine years will retire Accounts, capital expenditure, trading and capital budgets and at the Annual General Meeting and will be seeking re-election.
The Board considers monthly reports from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises NonOperating Officer and Minutes of the Board and Committees are Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
circulated to all Board members.
It has also made the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality Nomination Committee of information.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr R G Parry.
At the beginning of the year it comprised Mr P E B Cawdron, Lord Gordon Board Responsibilities of Strathblane and Mr L F Hinton.
After Lord Gordon of Strathblane The Board acknowledges the division of responsibilities for running retired at the 2007 AGM, it was decided that with the forthcoming the Board and managing the Companys business with Mr R G Board changes, the Nomination Committee should comprise all the Parry as Non-Executive Chairman, Mr P E B Cawdron as Senior Non-Executive Directors.
Reporting to the Board, its duty is to seek Independent Director SID and Mr T J Bowdler as the Companys suitably skilled and experienced candidates, with sufficient time to Chief Executive Officer.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 Corporate Governance - continued devote to the role, as Non-Executive Directors and to oversee all area of digital publishing.
The completed questionnaires were Board appointments.
Once the role of a vacancy has been submitted to the Company Secretary who prepared a summary of determined, the Committee appoints external recruitment the conclusions which was presented to the Board meeting in consultants to assist with the search.
Separately, the Secretary produced a detailed report summarising any individual recommendations for the The terms of reference of the Committee are displayed on the consideration of the Chairman.
This was followed up by meetings Companys website in the Investor Centre section.
as appropriate with individual directors.
Mr I S M Russell was appointed to the Board on 9 January 2007, Training is undertaken as required during the year.
The feedback replacing Lord Gordon of Strathblane.
The appointment of a from the recent questionnaires will assist in the training plan for qualified accountant was a deliberate decision by the Committee in the forthcoming year.
The Board arranges for its Non-Executive looking to provide a replacement for Mr P E B Cawdron as Chair of Directors to visit the Groups principal locations at certain intervals the Audit Committee.
As explained above, this change took place in to discuss the operations with local management.
In addition, at August 2007. least one Board meeting is held at one of the Groups centres where the Board receives a presentation from the local Managing During the year, Mr P E B Cawdron decided that he would retire Director and a tour of the business.
Individual directors attend a from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
In addition, range of seminars presented by professionals throughout the year.
Mr L F Hinton resigned from the Board in December 2007.
The Committee is currently considering a detailed brief to replace both Board Re-election these Directors, together with a discussion about the appropriate It is the policy of the Board that all directors are subject to election Board balance when Mr F P M Johnston steps down from the at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and Board.
It is expected that a new Non-Executive Director will be thereafter to re-election every three years.
All directors who have appointed in the first half of 2008 with at least one other served nine years or more or who are above age 70 are subject to appointment later in the year.
The Annual Reports in 2005 and 2006 explained that Mr T J The Chairman has, following the formal evaluation process Bowdler, the Chief Executive Officer, is due to retire in 2009. described above, considered the performance of the directors The Committee interviewed a number of executive recruitment subject to re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and consultants and has now appointed a firm to assist with the search is satisfied that the individuals performance continues to be for a new Chief Executive Officer.
A detailed brief is being prepared effective and that they have demonstrated a clear commitment to together with a full job description.
The selection process will run the role.
through 2008 and it is expected that an appointment will be made in 2009.
Financial Reporting The Board has shown its commitment to presenting appropriate The Board undertook an evaluation of its performance during the information about the Groups financial position by complying with year.
This included a review of the effectiveness of this Committee best practice and all standards issued by the International and UK considering its composition, chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its Accounting Standards Boards relating to the disclosures which are role as outlined in the terms of reference, its reporting and overall included in this Annual Report.
This evaluation process was undertaken by the Committee itself as well as by all members of the Board.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities results of this process were positive and confirmed the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, effectiveness of the Committee.
Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Information and Professional Development The Chairman arranged a detailed induction process for Mr I S M Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Russell, including meetings and discussions with advisers and for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS senior management where appropriate, together with the Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs preparation of a full induction pack and seminars both internally as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements and externally.
A similar process will be undertaken when any new are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with Non-Executive Director is appointed.
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
All Board members have access to independent advice on any International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial matters relating to their responsibilities as directors and as statements present fairly for each financial year the Company's members of the various Committees of the Board.
The Company financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This Secretary is available to all directors and he is responsible for requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with.
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set Board Performance Evaluation out in the International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework During the last year, the Board has conducted a rigorous evaluation for the preparation and presentation of financial statements'.
In of its own performance.
This involved the completion of an virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by assessment questionnaire by all directors covering the compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also performance of the Board, individual directors, the Company required to: Secretary and Board Committees.
Other topics included the conduct of meetings, the provision of information, relationships, properly select and apply accounting policies: strategy, training: and the overall effectiveness of the Board.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner There was a continued emphasis on a scoring system for that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable assessing individual, Committee and Board performance, together information: and with a focus on the future strategy of the Group especially in the 54 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific results of the Groups operations by individual business requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to performance and all significant variations against budget and understand the impact of particular transactions, other events the previous year are fully examined.
The day-to-day responsibility and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial for managing each of the Groups operations rests with local performance.
experienced Senior Executives and the Group has a clear organisational structure which includes appropriate delegation The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting of authority.
The Executive Directors ensure that regular contact records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the is maintained with all Senior Executives.
The Group Management financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the Board, comprising the Executive Directors, the Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Secretary, the Director of Human Resources, the Digital Strategy are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company Director and the Business Development Manager, meets every and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and month to review financial and operational issues as well as the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Formal Board approval for capital expenditure over 250k and the corporate and financial information included on the company's for other investment decisions.
Approval was granted for all website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the acquisitions and disposals submitted after due enquiry.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Formal Board approval of the annual budget for the forthcoming financial year.
This includes detailed and comprehensive budgets Going Concern covering each operating business.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a Formal Board reporting of the key functional departments future reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to strategy as part of the operational topics considered at Board continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For meetings during the year.
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Review by the Audit Committee on a six-monthly basis of the work performed by the Internal Financial Control Committee Internal Control IFCC based on a programme of work agreed in advance.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by The IFCC is chaired by the Company Secretary who is establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and responsible for the conduct of control reviews in selected managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly locations by members of the Committee who are independent reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the of the location visited.
The IFCC is also responsible for the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in review of detailed financial control checklists submitted by each accordance with the revised guidance on internal control published operation to head office monthly.
This work is strongly supported in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible by the Groups financial accounting centre which ensures a for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its consistent and compliant approach to the processing of effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than transactions and ensures a uniform control process across eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can the Groups operations.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Review by the Audit Committee of the conclusions of the Groups external auditors in their annual audit and review of the half-year In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the results.
These reviews include discussion of any control Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system weaknesses or issues identified by the auditors.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The conduct of risk assessment involving all senior managers management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from of the Groups businesses in addition to the Executive Directors.
management to consider whether significant risks are identified, A risk matrix is reviewed on a regular basis both in the local evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant operations and by the Group Management Board.
One risk is weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more discussed at every monthly executive meeting both locally and extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific at Group level.
The results of these assessments are assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This summarised and reported to the entire Board.
These risk assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control assessment sessions will continue at each operation and will arising during the period covered by the report including work of the evaluate and address the risks identified.
During 2007, the Internal Financial Control Committee.
The Audit Committee assists Group Management Board has focused particularly on motor the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
advertising trends: national advertising sales: disaster recovery plans in fewer, larger prepress and press centres: free daily During the course of its review of the system of internal control, newspapers: management succession planning: digital strategy: management stretch: banking covenants: daily newspaper sales the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
The key elements of the ongoing On an ongoing basis, steps are taken to embed best practice into continuous process during the period under review have been: all the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards Formal Board reporting on a monthly basis by the Chief attention.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer on the Groups performance and on any emerging risks In addition, the Group Management Board has the ongoing and issues.
The monthly management accounts break down the responsibility to set policies, procedures and standards as detailed Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Corporate Governance - continued in the Groups policy guidelines.
These are reviewed and revised on have a private discussion with the auditors.
The Chairman also has an annual basis and a tailored version has been released for all a private meeting with the audit partner during the course of the the businesses in the Republic of Ireland.
The guidelines include year to discuss any relevant issues.
policies on: At the meeting to review the Annual Report and Accounts, the Finance Committee formally considers the non-audit services provided by Cash treasury controls the Groups external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit Authorisation levels process.
These are fully explored and discussed and the Trading Committee is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of Customer service the external audit is safeguarded.
Any material fees are discussed Commercial and competition with the Audit Committee before being committed.
During 2007 Technology the Company has used several professional firms for different Property management projects and the Republic of Ireland taxation compliance and Human resources including pension administration, disability and advisory work is undertaken by a professional firm other than health and safety the Groups auditors.
Environmental issues and energy management Legal and regulatory compliance As explained on page 54, the Board undertook an evaluation Business continuity.
of its performance during the year.
This included a review of the effectiveness of this Committee considering its composition, The Directors at the Board meeting on 25 January 2008 reviewed chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its role as outlined in the terms the need for an internal audit department and concluded that they of reference, its reporting and overall performance.
This evaluation did not believe it necessary for the Group to maintain such a process was undertaken by the Committee itself as well as by all department given the very effective role played by the IFCC and the members of the Board.
The results of this process were positive current independent review and monitoring procedures in operation.
and confirmed the effectiveness of the Committee.
Audit Committee The Committee oversaw the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP Until August 2007 the Audit Committee was chaired by Mr P E B in 2002 and have a primary responsibility for the appointment, reCawdron, a chartered accountant, and throughout 2007 has appointment and removal of auditors.
included Mrs M A King, Mr S J Waugh and Mr I S M Russell.
In August 2007 Mr P E B Cawdron stepped down from the Committee The Audit Partner at Deloitte rotated at the commencement of the and Mr I S M Russell, a chartered accountant, was appointed 2007 interim review.
All are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding authority and duties.
This is displayed on the Companys website of objectives between the Company and its institutional in the Investor Centre section.
The terms include a review of the shareholders.
As part of this process, the Chief Executive Officer arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns and Chief Financial Officer make twice yearly presentations to about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or institutional shareholders and meet with shareholders to discuss other areas.
any issues of concern and to obtain feedback.
In addition, they communicate regularly throughout the year with those shareholders The Committee meets once during the year with the Companys who request a meeting.
external auditors to discuss and agree the audit programme for the forthcoming year, together with any proposed non-audit work.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director personally contact the leading shareholders in the Company on a yearly basis The two other meetings follow the interim financial review and to address any concerns and discuss any issues.
The Board the year-end audit.
They cover a comprehensive report from receives a report on any discussion with shareholders and the the external auditors on their work and their conclusions.
written feedback that follows the half yearly presentations is The Committee focuses in particular on the areas of financial circulated to the Board.
Brokers reports and analysts briefings are judgement by the Group.
As part of the main Board it also reviews included in the Board papers sent to the directors every month.
the summary of the Groups key business risks and discusses any revisions.
The Committee is actively involved in the ongoing review The Board receives a quarterly update on the shareholder register of internal controls by the main Board.
with a summary of the main movements in shareholdings since the previous report.
In addition, these two meetings consider a report on the work of the IFCC.
Its work is described in the Internal Control section and, Members of the Board have met with institutional shareholders given the detail and comfort included in the report, the Committee during the year to consider Corporate Governance matters.
All the regards this approach as the most effective way to review the Non-Executive Directors are prepared to meet with shareholders to financial controls in the business rather than establish an internal understand more fully their views.
Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee meetings to consider the financial results The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual of the Group are attended by the Chief Financial Officer and the General Meeting.
Directors are present to answer any questions Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, with from shareholders.
It is the policy of the Board that all Directors minutes being circulated to all Board members.
The Chairman, should attend the Annual General Meeting.
It uses the Annual Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer are also invited General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to attend if required to do so by the Committee.
Towards the close encourages their participation.
of both meetings, all Executives leave in order for the Committee to All Directors attended the AGM in 2007.
56 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
