Corporate Governance 54 Corporate Governance Report COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE Ambassador to the United States and to South Africa, and a The Board is committed to high standards of corporate non-executive director of BHP Billiton plc, British Airways plc and governance in its management of the affairs of the Group Liberty International plc.
Vice Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove, and in its accountability to shareholders.
who are brokers and financial advisers to the Company: he has no involvement in the provision of broking or financial services This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in to the Company.
accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the JAMES RUTLAND Combined Code.
Formerly Finance Director of Energy Africa Limited, having previously held a number of positions in Investors in Industry plc, The Companys policies on corporate direction and control ensure and with James Capels corporate finance group and Hongkong that the Company applies all of the principles of good governance Banks resource lending group in London.
contained in the Combined Code in the organisational structure it has adopted to conduct its business, its remuneration policy, its The Chairman was not independent at the time of his relations with its shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in appointment by virtue of his signi cant shareholding in the its financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined a major contribution to its development into an international Code, except that the Chairman was not independent at the time FTSE 100 company.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion of his appointment.
that his continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
BOARD STRUCTURE The Board currently consists of eight directors, all of whom served The non-executive Directors have held informal discussions throughout the financial year.
Including the Chairman, there are with the Chairman from time-to-time without executive three executive Directors and five non-executive Directors: this Directors being present.
balance ensures that no individual or small group of Directors dominates the decision making process and the interests of the The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly fide ned so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Yong Keu Cha stood down as a Director and Chief Executive on 31 December 2006.
On 15 March 2007, he was succeeded as The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of Chief Executive by Oleg Novachuk, previously Finance Director.
the Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, Matthew Hird, previously Group Financial Controller and leadership of the Board and ensuring effective communication Company Secretary, was appointed as Chief Financial Of cer on with shareholders.
As part of the evaluation of the performance 15 March 2007, and Robert Welch succeeded Matthew Hird as of the Chairman, the Board remains satis ed that the Chairman Company Secretary on the same date.
is able to ful l all of the commitments required of his role.
It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be Oleg Novachuk, following his appointment as Chief Executive on independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Vladimir Ni, 15 March 2007, is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors the Group and the implementation of the strategy approved by to be independent in character and judgement.
appointment as chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, the Companys main operating company in Kazakhstan, with effect NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT from 1 January 2006, Vladimir Ni is not considered by the Board DIRECTOR to be independent.
The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element on the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate The independent non-executive Directors are: governance.
Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys PHILIP AIKEN affairs, the non-executive Directors ful l a vital role in corporate Chairman of Robert Walters plc and a senior advisor to Macquarie accountability.
They have a particular responsibility to examine Capital Advisers.
Formerly President, UK of BHP Billiton plc, critically the strategies proposed by the executive Directors, having previously been Group President of BHP Billitons Energy scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed business, President, BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the functioning director of BTR plc and held a number of senior positions in of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current BOC Group plc.
non-executive Directors bring experience, expertise and independent judgement from a variety of business sectors SIMON HEALE and public life.
A non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Panmure Gordon & Co plc, Marex Group Limited and PZ Cussons James Rutland, the Senior Independent Director will, together plc, and Chief Executive of the China Now Festival.
Formerly with the other non-executive Directors, be available to discuss Chief Executive of The London Metal Exchange, Chief Operating matters of concern with shareholders whenever necessary.
He also Of cer of Jardine Fleming Ltd and Deputy Managing Director of leads the annual evaluation by the non-executive Directors of the Cathay Paci c Airways.
LORD RENWICK OF CLIFTON, KCMG INDUCTION, TRAINING AND INFORMATION Serves on the boards of Compagnie Financire Richemont AG, Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive Fluor Corporation and SABMiller plc.
Formerly British a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 55 individual requirements.
The induction programme, which is for its decisions and has four principal committees to deal with arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to the Groups speci c aspects of the Groups affairs.
In addition, the Company businesses and meetings with senior managers and advisers as Secretary has a speci c responsibility to the Group as a whole appropriate.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group, the for its sound governance and for guidance to the Board in the key drivers of business performance, the role of the Board and its responsible and effective execution of its tasks.
committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate training and The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Group guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration director of a public limited company.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the Companys website www.
com and on To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered are procedures to provide them with appropriate and timely of ce.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed information, including information between meetings about annually.
Each committee reports on its activities to the next developments in the Groups business and financial performance, Board meeting following its meeting.
so that they can maintain full and effective control of strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Directors also have access to the advice and services of The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the integrity the Company Secretary, and, in appropriate circumstances, of financial reporting by the Company, to review the Groups may obtain independent professional advice at the internal control and risk management systems, to monitor the Companys expense.
effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and to oversee the relationship with the external auditors.
Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
For example, over the last 12 months, The Audit Committee, which met on five occasions during the members of the Board have made visits to the Groups year, consists of James Rutland chairman, Philip Aiken and Simon operations and have received speci c brie ngs by management Heale.
Currently both James Rutland and Simon Heale have on the implications of new legislation in the United Kingdom recent and relevant financial experience: their biographies are set and Kazakhstan.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and external To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment from the Chief Financial Of cer and At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets Head of Corporate Communications.
Although not part of their separately with the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit, induction programme, all non-executive Directors have a without management present, to facilitate the discussion of any standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from audits.
presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with Arrangements have also been adopted to ensure that the Head of Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee chairman and is accountable to the Committee.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION A Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in late During and in respect of the year, the Committee has 2007, with the results being presented to the February 2008 Board undertaken the following activities to facilitate the discharge meeting.
The process entailed the completion of detailed of its responsibilities: questionnaires on the performance on the Board, its committees and its executive and non-executive Directors by each Director Financial reporting: The Committee reviewed the interim report, and the preparation of a composite report.
No fundamental the 2007 annual report and accounts, and the interim and issues or training needs that require addressing were identi ed preliminary announcements made to the London Stock Exchange.
and the Board is also satis ed that each of the current As part of the reviews, it reviewed accounting policies, estimates non-executive Directors had suf cient time and commitment and judgements that had been applied in preparing the reports to contribute effectively to the Board and its committees.
and financial statements and the transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them.
It also received reports from RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS management and the external auditors on accounting, tax and New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves legal issues.
for re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, the Companys articles of Internal control: The Committee received reports from association require that all Directors stand for re-election at least management on the implementation of enhanced financial every three years.
reporting procedures and controls, and IT systems.
It also evaluated the design and effectiveness of the Groups system BOARD AND COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES MEMBERSHIPS of internal control as set out on pages 56 and 57.
THE BOARD The Board is responsible for approving Group strategy, reviewing Risk management: The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining the Group risk management framework as described on page 57 major investments, ensuring the appropriate allocation of financial and reports arising out of the risk management process.
It also resources and monitoring the performance of the executive team.
monitored the Groups insurance arrangements.
It is also responsible for providing leadership and support to the executive management team in creating and sustaining Internal audit: The Committee approved the internal audit plan shareholder value through the management of the Groups and reviewed reports from the internal audit department, business, together with delivering expected shareholder returns.
including details of the adequacy of managements actions.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Corporate Governance 56 Corporate Governance Report continued External audit: The Committee consists of Vladimir Kim chairman, Lord Renwick The Committee: and Simon Heale.
In accordance with the requirements of the approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, the Combined Code the majority of the members are independent fees paid to them, and the plan of the work carried out by them: non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman is chairman of reviewed policies on the independence of the external auditor the Committee.
and the provision of non-audit services: assessed the independence and objectivity of the external GROUP HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE auditors and in this process reviewed a report from the external The principal tasks of the Committee are to evaluate the auditors on all relationships that might reasonably have a effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems for identifying bearing on their independence and the audit partner and and managing health, safety and environment risks within the staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures: Group, to recommend to the Board the Groups policies on received reports on the findings of the external auditors during health, safety and environment matters and to ensure that an their interim review and annual audit and reviewed the effective system of health, safety and environment standards, recommendations made to management by the external procedures and practices is in place at each of the Groups auditors and managements responses: operational sites.
assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors: and considered its recommendation as to the re-appointment The Committee, which met three times during the year, consists of the external auditors.
of David Munro chairman, James Rutland and Philip Aiken.
During the year the Committee appointed an external health Whistleblowing: The Committee considered arrangements by and safety specialist and an external environmental specialist which staff may, in con dence, raise concerns about possible with appropriate technical experience to provide advice to legal, regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial the Committee.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee also receives reports on developments in financial All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and reporting practices, legislative and regulatory changes and other each meeting of the committees of which they are members, relevant matters so as to keep abreast of current thinking on unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them public reporting and internal controls.
The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board by the external auditors and their associates includes the and of Board committees of which they were members during identi cation of certain non-audit services which the external 2007 is shown below.
auditors are prohibited from providing and a process through Current Directors Board Audit Remuneration Nomination GHSE which other non-audit services are approved.
All non-audit services require the agreement of the Chief Financial Of cer Vladimir Kim 5 6 1 2 before they can be undertaken, with certain engagements over Oleg Novachuk 6 6 50,000 only being awarded to the external auditor after a Philip Aiken 6 6 5 5 3 4 3 3 competitive tender process.
The non-audit services of the Simon Heale 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 external auditors will only be used where the Group bene ts in David Munro 6 6 3 3 a cost-effective manner and the external auditors maintain the Vladimir Ni 5 6 necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Details of all Lord Renwick 6 6 4 4 2 2 non-audit services are reported to the Audit Committee twice a James Rutland 6 6 5 5 3 3 year.
The policy will be kept under review and may be amended from time to time as necessary.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of REMUNERATION COMMITTEE internal control and risk management and for reviewing the Details of the Committees main functions, and its current policies effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is designed to identify, for Board Directors, are given in the Directors Remuneration evaluate and manage the signi cant risks associated with the Report commencing on page 58.
The Committee met four times Groups achievement of its business objectives with a view to during the year.
The members of the Committee are Lord Renwick safeguarding shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
chairman, Philip Aiken and Simon Heale.
This system is designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, and is designed to manage NOMINATION COMMITTEE rather than eliminate risk.
Because of the limitations inherent The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent in any system of internal control, such a system can provide procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material generally consults external consultants and advisers on misstatement or loss.
The Committee keeps under review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and The Board con rms that, throughout the year ended 31 December its committees, assesses the development of Directors including 2007 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and induction, training and succession planning, considering the Accounts, there have been processes in place for identifying, speci c experience and skill needed for an appointment.
It evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group recommends to the Board the appointment of all Directors having in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
regard to the balance and structure of the Board and the required blend of skills and experience.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 57 The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its Group and its programme of work is approved by the Audit effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks, it has established Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, Internal Audit has a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has undertaken a number of audits across operations and functions to set up a framework for reporting matters of signi cance, has facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls.
The Head authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups strategy of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
with regard to risk and the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial reporting, internal controls and risk management Whilst good progress has been made in developing an internal systems, has developed a system of regular reports from audit programme, and Internal Audit continuously works on management and has reserved speci c key matters for its improvement of its audit programmes and techniques, further decision.
The process is designed to provide assurance by progress needs to be made to ensure it meets the standards way of cumulative assessment.
typically found in other UK-listed companies.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which MANAGEMENT OF RISK have operated throughout the year are: The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to group financial, operating and administrative policies strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall and procedures which incorporate statements of management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit required behaviour: Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups continuous review of operating performance of the risk management framework.
Groups businesses: monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting The Board has approved a formalised but straightforward Group system, including monthly results, annual budgets and risk management framework.
This framework is designed to medium-term forecasts: provide assurance that risks are being identi ed and managed in well fide ned procedures for appraisal, approval, control and a manner appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
It comprises review of major capital projects, including acquisitions: risk identi cation and assessment processes, together with risk an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in each response and monitoring activities.
The Group Risk Manager of its business operations and the signi cant risk issues co-ordinates the risk assessment and identi cation activities, associated therewith: and facilitates the development of appropriate responses to implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with identi ed risks.
signi cant risks, including measures such as insurance and use of external specialists: Whilst good progress has been made in the development of a a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme to support robust risk management system and there is ongoing work to the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: improve and enhance it, further steps need to be taken to ensure regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and it is comparable with other international listed mining companies.
effectiveness of internal control: and regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS and Environment Committee on health, safety and The Board recognises the importance of good communications environmental matters.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Of cer are closely involved in investor relations and the Head of The Board, in conjunction with management, has agreed a Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility for such number of activities to further develop the internal control matters.
In addition to the annual report and accounts which is environment.
Progress on these initiatives, alongside the available to all shareholders either in hard copy or electronically, development of embedded risk management and assurance there is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, who processes, is being made.
Details of initiatives in the area of also from time-to-time visit the Groups operations.
financial risk management can be found in the Business Review commencing on page 38, and initiatives in the area of health, The Company issues quarterly production updates and will safety and the environment can be found in the Corporate issue interim management statements to the market, and these Responsibility Report on pages 42 to 47. together with copies of institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups preliminary and interim results and all Although signi cant progress has been made since Listing to announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange are posted improve the Groups system of internal control, further progress is on the Companys website www.
required to achieve the levels of internal control typically found in other UK companies of the size and complexity of Kazakhmys.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups system question the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within principal Board committees.
INTERNAL AUDIT Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
