Corporate governance The board is accountable to the companys All new directors, where applicable, receive The board has delegated certain authority to the shareholders for maintaining standards of an induction on joining the board, including following committees.
Each committee has formal corporate governance.
The board considers information about the company and their terms of reference, which are available on request that the company has complied throughout responsibilities, meetings with key managers, and from the company secretary or on the corporate the accounting period with the provisions set visits to the companys operations.
Briefings are governance section of the companys website at out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
provided to directors on relevant issues, including www.
legislative, regulatory and financial reporting The following is an explanation of how the matters.
Training is available to directors on, and Executive committee company applies the Combined Code.
subsequent to, their appointment to meet their Chaired by the chief executive and comprising particular requirements.
There is an agreed the executive directors and the chairman, it has The board of directors procedure for directors to take independent delegated authority to deal with specific matters The board meets at least six times each professional advice at the companys expense in remitted to it by the board.
year and more frequently where considered furtherance of their duties in relation to board or appropriate.
In addition, meetings of the noncommittee matters.
Directors have access to the Audit committee executive directors are held when required.
The group company secretary who is responsible for Christopher Fisher was the chairman of the audit board has a schedule of matters reserved for its ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The other members decision and the requirement for board approval directors receive full and timely access to all relevant of the committee were Ed Anderson and Kate on these matters is communicated widely information, including a monthly board pack of Avery.
Ed Anderson was appointed as chairman throughout the senior management of the group.
Direct access to of the committee on 30 May 2007 in place of key executives is encouraged.
The company has Christopher Fisher, who continues to serve as a The board determines the groups strategic directors and officers insurance in place.
All three members objectives and key policies, and approves the of the audit committee are independent nonbusiness plans for each group company, interim The board currently comprises a chairman, two executive directors and each has sufficient recent and final financial statements, recommendations executive directors and five non-executive directors.
and relevant financial experience to discharge his of dividends, significant investment and major Ed Anderson, Kate Avery, Christopher Fisher and her functions.
The external auditor, the head of new business proposals, as well as significant David Salkeld are considered by the board to be internal audit and the company secretary attend all organisational matters and corporate governance independent of management and free from any meetings.
The group finance director and group arrangements.
The board is also responsible for business or other relationship which could materially financial controller usually attend by invitation.
The establishing and reviewing the groups system interfere with the exercise of their independent committee also meets with the external auditor of internal control and risk management, and judgements.
Kate Avery is a director of Legal & without the presence of executive management reviewing at least annually its effectiveness.
The General which owned 3.55% of the companys when it considers it necessary or appropriate to roles of the board, the chairman and the chief shares as at 13 June 2007.
The company does not do so.
The committee chairman reports on the executive are formally set out and agreed by consider this to affect her independence as her activities of the committee to the board meeting the board.
There are clear levels of delegated role at Legal & General does not include direct immediately following each committee meeting.
authority, which enable management to take responsibility for investment decisions.
Richard decisions in the normal course of business.
Schmidt was previously an executive of the The audit committees key tasks include: company.
David Salkeld is the senior independent During the year a formal performance evaluation director.
The roles of chairman and chief executive the review and monitoring of the integrity of of the board, its committees and its directors was are separate and held by John Napier and Kevin the interim and annual financial statements: undertaken.
The process involved the completion Whiteman respectively.
John Napier met the the review of the groups system of internal by each director of both a self evaluation and an independence criteria of the Combined Code on control, including financial, operational, evaluation of the performance and effectiveness his appointment, although he subsequently served compliance and risk management: of the board as a whole and individual directors.
in an interim executive capacity, which he overseeing the companys relationship Individual discussions between each director and relinquished in September 2002. with the external auditor, agree the nature the chairman, and meetings of the board and and scope of the audit and review the non-executive directors including meetings Any director appointed during the year is required, the independence and objectivity of without the chairman to appraise his performance under the provisions of the companys articles the external auditor: to consider issues arising from the evaluation of association, to retire and seek election by the monitoring and reviewing of the process and to identify and implement appropriate shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The evaluation concluded that The articles of association of the company require the board and its committees operated effectively.
each director to be subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Kelda Group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 In undertaking these tasks the committee receives The key features of the policy are: Nomination committee and reviews work carried out by the internal and clear accountability of the auditor to the audit John Napier is chairman of the nomination external auditors and their findings.
Both the committee and the chairman of the board of committee.
The other members are Kate Avery, internal and external auditor work to an annual the company: Ed Anderson, Christopher Fisher and David Salkeld.
plan developed in consultation with the committee.
the audit committee considers annually its In addition the committee reviews specific business recommendation to re-appoint the auditor: The main functions of the committee are: areas and processes from time to time.
the auditor is required to disclose the safeguards and steps taken to ensure independence and to review the structure, size and composition The regular business of the audit committee objectivity: of the board, the audit committee and the includes consideration of reports on financial rotation of audit partners and appropriate remuneration committee and make statements, audit planning, the activities of internal restrictions on appointment of employees recommendations to the board with regard audit and its key findings, and the consideration of the auditor: to necessary adjustments: of the operation of internal control processes.
specific restrictions and procedures in relation to to prepare a role and capabilities statement for Additional matters considered during the year the allocation of non-audit work to the auditor.
the appointment of a chairman and to identify include a review of the systems and controls in These include categories of work which cannot and nominate candidates for the approval of preparing and submitting regulatory data of be allocated to the auditor, and categories of the board: and Yorkshire Water Services Limited, and systems of work which may be allocated to the auditor, to provide advice and recommendations internal control and risk management operating subject to certain provisions as to materiality, to the board in respect of appointments in Kelda Water Services Limited and companies nature of the work, or the approval of the audit of other directors.
in which it holds joint venture investments.
At each of its meetings the audit The committee also undertook a review of the committee receives a report of the fees paid The nomination committee meets at least effectiveness of internal audit with the assistance to the auditor in all capacities.
annually to discharge such of these functions of external advisers.
It also undertook a tender as may be required.
exercise of external audit services, which The split between audit and non-audit fees for led to the recommendation to appoint the year to 31 March 2007 appears at note 4 Corporate social responsibility committee  for the year ending 31 to the financial statements.
Non-audit fees of John Napier is chairman of the corporate social March 2008.
The company has a policy for disclosure 0.5m were paid in relation to taxation services responsibility committee, and Kevin Whiteman of malpractice, and the audit committee reviews and corporate finance services, including services is a member of it.
Roger Hyde, a non-executive the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, relating to the return of cash to shareholders director of Yorkshire Water, is also a member raise concerns about possible improprieties in through a B share scheme, which was of a one-off of the committee.
He was formerly the Head matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The amount and nature of non-audit fees of the Environment Agency, North East Region.
are considered by the committee not to affect the The committee recommends to the board The independence and objectivity of the external independence or objectivity of the external auditor.
appropriate corporate social responsibility policies auditor is considered on a regular basis, with and procedures.
It is responsible for the publication particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Remuneration committee of the corporate social responsibility review Details of the membership and role of the which is available on the internet at The company has adopted an auditor remuneration committee are included in the http: csr.
independence policy which establishes procedures directors remuneration report on page 33. and guidance under which the companys Board attendance relationship with its external auditor is governed The table overleaf shows the number of meetings so that the audit committee is able to satisfy itself of the board, audit, remuneration and nomination that there are no factors which may, or may be committees attended by each director, out of seen to, impinge upon the independence and possible attendances.
objectivity of the audit process.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 Corporate governance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination management from key disciplines and operating companies.
It advises and assists operational John Napier 6 6 1 1 managing directors and the board on the Ed Anderson 6 6 4 4 1 1 implementation of the risk management process and monitors risk on behalf of the 6 6 4 4 5 6 1 1 Kate Avery board.
It reports to the audit committee.
6 6 4 4 6 6 1 1 Christopher Fisher Business units are required to report annually on principal business risks and the operation David Salkeld 5 6 6 6 1 1 of control mechanisms.
Richard Schmidt 5 6 The internal audit department provides Martin Towers 6 6 objective assurance and advice on risk management and control, and monitors Kevin Whiteman 6 6 the risk management process.
The audit committee reviews and monitors the Communication with shareholders environmental and ethical risks fall within the effectiveness of the process on behalf of the Shareholders have direct access to the company scope of this process.
The process is designed to board.
During the year the audit committee via the investor relations section of its website manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to undertook a detailed review of the process.
com and its free shareholder achieve business objectives and can only provide information telephone service.
The website reasonable, not absolute, assurance against In addition to this process, businesses are subject is updated with all announcements and material misstatement or loss.
During the financial to: a quarterly comprehensive review by the presentations, and contains investor relations year, material joint ventures have been dealt with executive team: independent internal and external information which is updated regularly.
as part of the group for the purposes of applying audits which are reported to the executive team the guidance.
and the audit committee: an extensive budget and There is regular dialogue with individual target setting process: a quarterly reporting and institutional shareholders as well as general The group has comprehensive and well defined forecasting process reviewing performance against presentations after the interim and preliminary control policies with clear structures, delegated agreed objectives: appropriate delegated authority results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to authority levels and accountabilities.
There is levels: established financial policies and procedures: put questions at the companys annual general a group procedure governing appraisal and and other risk management policies and meeting and the company will make a presentation approval of business development and investment procedures such as health and safety and at the meeting to highlight the key business expenditure.
Post completion reviews are required environmental policies.
The chairmen of the audit, on significant business development projects and remuneration and nomination committees will material investment expenditure.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the be available to answer questions at the annual effectiveness of the system of internal control.
general meeting to be held on 1 August 2007.
The groups risk management process aims to be It has received the reports of the audit committee comprehensive, systematic and continuous, and and has conducted a formal annual review covering The board receives reports from executive based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The all controls including financial, operational, directors following meetings with investors.
key features of the process include the following: compliance and risk management, in accordance Formal reports of investor feedback are presented with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on to the board following the interim and annual The main risks facing the group are identified the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and results presentations.
An investor relations and recorded in a strategic risk register together updated in October 2005.
Following its review the report is presented to the board each month.
with the control mechanisms applicable to each board determined that it was not aware of any risk.
These are collated from risk registers significant deficiency or material weakness in Internal control maintained by individual businesses.
the system of internal control.
The board is responsible for the groups system of There is clear allocation of management internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
responsibility for risk identification, recording, An ongoing process, in accordance with the analysis and control.
guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal The audit committee generally meets four Control, has been established for identifying, times each year and reviews the effectiveness evaluating and managing the significant risks faced of the systems which are in place and reports by the group and this has been in place for the to the board.
year under review and up to the date of approval A risk management forum, chaired by the group of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Strategic, financial controller, has been established with financial, commercial, operational, social, formal terms of reference comprising senior Kelda Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
