Corporate Governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is formulating strategy proposals for the Board: accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how governance and this statement describes how the Company this strategy will be delivered: has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Governance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of Group and its performance, including any signicantly the UK Listing Authority.
Throughout the year to 31 December underperforming business activities: and 2007, save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed leadership of executive management to enable the Groups Compliance with the Code on page 44, the Board believes businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: that the Company was in compliance with the provisions of ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised the Code.
management resources: ensuring succession planning: and The Board ensuring appropriate business processes.
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to Directors and Directors independence provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five other NonGroups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The names financial and other resources are made available to enable those of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their objectives to be met.
The Board has a schedule of matters biographical details, are set out on pages 30 and 31.
All these reserved for its approval which is kept under review.
Directors served throughout the year, except Mr Roy Franklin, who was appointed on 19 July 2007.
The Board included at least Specic responsibilities of the Board include: setting Group four Independent Non-executive Directors throughout the year.
strategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors, with the divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the Groups exceptions of Dr West and Mr Lpez Jimnez, to be independent systems of internal controls and risk management: ensuring that of management.
Dr West was Chief Executive from 1982 to appropriate management development and succession plans 1995 and is not, therefore, considered to be independent of are in place: reviewing the health and safety performance of the management.
Mr Lpez Jimnez is associated with GTCEISU Group: approving appointments to the Board: and approving Construccin, S. A. GTCEISU, which is a 49% shareholder in policies relating to Directors remuneration and Directors Keller-Terra S. L. and a 6% shareholder in Keller Group plc.
Whilst the Board considers Mr Lpez Jimnez to be independent in character and judgement, he is not deemed to be Board papers and other relevant information are circulated independent of management under the Code, in view to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board of GTCEISUs shareholding in Keller Group plc.
This information is supplemented by information specically requested by the Directors from time The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to time.
to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive deliberations.
Mr Brown is the Senior Independent Director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between Dr West as Non-executive Chairman and Mr Atkinson who, as Chief There is an agreed procedure for individual Directors to obtain Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running independent professional advice and all Directors have of the Groups business.
unrestricted access to the Company Secretary and Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
to the leadership of the Board: ensuring appropriate Board composition: The Chairman has no other significant professional commitments.
ensuring effective Board processes: setting the Boards agenda: The Board had eight full meetings during the year.
A table ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to showing attendance at these meetings, and at meetings of take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Board Committees, is set out on page 43.
Committee discussions: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and One of these Board meetings was held in the Middle East, giving ensuring constructive relations between Executive and the Board an opportunity to visit operational locations, to receive Non-executive Directors.
presentations and to meet some of the Groups senior managers.
In addition, during the year the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and there was regular informal contact between the Directors.
42 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Professional development Relations with shareholders On appointment, Directors are provided with information about Throughout the year, the Company regularly meets with the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its and makes presentations to institutional investors in the UK, decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
following the announcement of the annual and interim results This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with the Companys largest institutional shareholders on an with key senior executives to develop the Directors individual basis.
The Senior Independent Director is available understanding of the business.
on request to meet with shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Throughout their period of ofce, Non-executive Directors are Executive or Finance Director have not resolved, or for which continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, social such contact is inappropriate.
All major shareholders have the responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and opportunity on request to meet new Non-executive Directors the industry in which it operates, including changes to the legal on appointment.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of the and governance environment and the obligations on themselves views of the investment community through the circulation of as Directors.
investor perception surveys, brokers research notes and feedback from analysts.
Performance evaluation and re-election After carrying out formal, questionnaire-based evaluations of the The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all the Board and its Committees in 2004 and 2005, and a more open, Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during discussion-based exercise in 2006, the Board did not carry out the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal performance evaluations in 2007.
Instead, the Board felt that it proceedings have ended.
The Notice of the Annual General was appropriate to wait until after the Board changes, which took Meeting, detailing all proposed resolutions, is posted to place during the year and at the start of 2008, before taking a shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
fresh look at its performance.
The Group maintains a corporate website, www.
co. uk, An evaluation exercise is being carried out in the first quarter containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, of 2008, which will be reported in next years Annual Report.
including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
The website is updated with all formal communications to the All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first investment community immediately following their release Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, subject through a recognised news service.
to satisfactory performance evaluation where appropriate, to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Board committees The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee meetings 8 meetings 4 meetings 4 Dr J M West Chairman 8 n a n a J R Atkinson Chief Executive 8 n a n a J W G Hind Finance Director 8 n a n a R M Rubright Executive Director 8 n a n a Dr W Sondermann Executive Director 8 n a n a Dr K Bond Non-executive Director 8 2 4 E G F Brown Non-executive Director 8 4 3 R A Franklin Non-executive Director 3 1 0 P J Lpez Jimnez Non-executive Director 5 n a n a K F Payne Non-executive Director 8 4 4 R T Scholes Non-executive Director 8 3 4 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled meetings in the period.
Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Corporate Governance Keller Group plc 43 Corporate Governance continued Committee terms of reference Since the start of 2007, the Audit Committee has discharged The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and its responsibilities by: Nomination Committees are kept under regular review and reviewing the Groups draft financial statements prior to are available on the Companys website.
Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon: Remuneration Committee reviewing the Groups trading update announcements prior The Remuneration Committee was chaired throughout the year to release: by Mr Brown, an Independent Non-executive Director.
The other reviewing the independence of the external Auditors and members during the year, all of whom are also Independent reviewing and approving the audit fee: Non-executive Directors, are shown on page 35. reviewing the external Auditors strategy for the audit of the Groups accounts: This Committee is responsible for agreeing with the Board the reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates executive management and for determining the remuneration on key risk areas of financial control: packages of the Executive Directors.
The Directors reviewing managements assessment of the key risks facing Remuneration Report is set out on pages 35 to 41. the Group and the related controls in place to mitigate those risks: and Nomination Committee reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dr West, except if it is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of the Board.
In considering the need for an internal audit function, the The other members during the year were Mr Atkinson, Dr Bond, Committee took account of the Groups broad geographic Mr Brown, Mr Payne, Mr Scholes and, from the date of his spread and cultural diversity, recognising that the Groups key Board appointment, Mr Franklin.
The Nomination Committees risks lie in its tendering processes and in the operational controls role is to monitor the composition and balance of the Board and over the performance of work, which a traditional, financerecommend to the Board the appointment of new Directors.
focused internal audit function would not be capable of Where appointments to the Board are under consideration, the addressing effectively.
As in the previous year, the Committee Committee will normally employ external search consultants, concluded that the existing structured programme of except in respect of executive roles for which internal candidates independent reviews was the best way of addressing the have already been identied.
Groups key risks and that these should be continued and developed.
The full Committee did not meet throughout the year.
A subcommittee, comprising Dr West, Mr Brown and Mr Scholes, The Committee also monitors the Groups whistle-blowing met on several occasions for the purposes of selecting external procedures, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place search consultants to assist in the recruitment of a new nonfor employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety executive director: interviewing candidates for role: and making in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
Once a year, the Committee evaluates the external Auditors.
Audit Committee This evaluation focuses on: the calibre of the audit rm including Dr Bond, Mr Brown, Mr Payne and Mr Scholes, were members reputation, presence in the industry, size, resources and of the Committee throughout the year and Mr Franklin was a geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of member from the date of his Board appointment.
All members the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, fee and audit of the Committee are Independent Non-executive Directors.
communications: and the governance and independence of the The Committee was chaired by Mr Payne until October 2007, audit rm.
when the chairmanship passed to Mr Scholes.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee has Any work awarded to the external Auditors, other than audit and recent and relevant financial experience.
tax compliance, with a value in excess of 50,000 requires the specic approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee This Committee meets at least three times a year at which perceives that the independence of the Auditors could be meetings the Companys Auditors attend.
At least once a year, compromised, the work will not be awarded to them.
Details the Committee meets privately with the external Auditors.
of the amounts paid to the external Auditors during the year The Committee assists the Board in observing its responsibility for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate consolidated financial statements.
and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair Compliance with the Code reection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups The Board believes that the Company was compliant with the systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring Code throughout the year, save in the following respect.
and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The Company has not, throughout the full year, met the requirement of the Code for at least half the board, excluding the chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
As previously stated, whilst under the Code Mr Lpez Jimnez is not deemed to be independent of management, the Board considers him to be independent in character and judgement.
Were he also deemed to be independent under the Code, the Company would have complied with the Code in all respects.
44 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Internal control d Budgeting and forecasting The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such budget approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash ows.
In of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only addition, detailed quarterly forecasts are prepared for the two reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are updated during misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for e Financial reporting identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash ows and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
and other information with budget and prior year, and significant This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords variances are investigated.
f Cash control The principal elements of the internal control framework are Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash as follows: forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand medium-term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing a Risk identication and evaluation requirements.
Managers are responsible for the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together g Investments and capital expenditure with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
All significant investment decisions, including capital These risks may be associated with a variety of internal or expenditure, are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group external sources including market cycles, acquisitions, people, authority level.
technical risks such as engineering and project management, control breakdowns, disruptions in information systems, h Independent reviews natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The identied The Group has a structured programme of independent reviews, risks, and the controls in place to manage them, are subject to combining internal peer and outsourced reviews covering continual reassessment.
The Audit Committee formally reviews tendering, operational processes and internal financial controls.
this process once every two years.
The intention is to conduct an independent review of all material business units at least once every three to four years.
This The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Committee, in the business and the external environment that affect which reviews the findings of each such exercise.
The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial information which includes key performance i Self-certication and risk indicators.
Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of internal financial and non-financial controls for which b Authorisation procedures they are responsible: and their compliance with Group policies, Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable local laws and regulations: and to report any control weaknesses trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across identied in the past year.
Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, nally, to the Board.
c Management of project risk Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding stage to completion.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate to the risks and total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level within the operating company.
The average time on site is around six weeks but larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is monitored by most business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
Corporate Governance Keller Group plc 45
