Corporate governance statement The Code health and safety strategies and particular issues as they arose: The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate conduct and is committed to managing the Groups operations in issues relating to a construction contract for Sandals in Antigua: accordance with the best principles of corporate governance as contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate the investigation by the Office of Fair Trading into alleged cover Governance the Code issued in June 2006 and has complied pricing by a Group company: with the Code throughout the year except as explained below.
presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management Independent non-executive directors do not comprise half the of a number of the divisions: and Board.
This has been debated by the Board, who do not consider the structure recommended by the Combined Code to be appropriate the merits of a share split bonus issue.
for the Group, as it is felt vital that each significant operating division should be represented on the Board at executive level.
This currently The Groups chairman is Mr P T Warry who leads the Board, is requires no less than seven executive directors including the chief responsible for its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
He facilitates executive and the finance director.
It is not felt either practical or the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures desirable to operate a board with seven independent non-executive a positive and constructive relationship between the executive directors in the foreseeable future.
The chairman is also responsible for effective communication with shareholders.
Board of directors The Board of Kier Group plc is responsible to its shareholders for the The chief executive is Mr J Dodds who is responsible for the success of the Company.
It sets the strategic and financial policies of operational management of the Group and is accountable to the the Group, monitors and reviews business performance and controls Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
As part of the Groups organisational structure described on facilitate this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management page 38 under Internal control the Board has put in place standing committee comprised of the other executive directors, he also chairs orders which are designed to ensure the provision to it of relevant monthly management meetings with each of the divisions.
As director information on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits and which responsible for human resource matters and Health & Safety he also reserve certain matters for the Board or its committees, including: meets regularly with the head of personnel and the director of safety, health & environment.
strategy and financial policy: The senior non-executive director is Mr P M White who succeeded the approval of financial statements: Mr P F Berry on his retirement on 30 June 2007. risk management: Biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 32 to 33.
All the directors with the exception of Mr C V Geoghegan served major capital expenditure: throughout the year.
The Board considers Mr C V Geoghegan, Mr S W Leathes and Mr P M White to be independent.
major project approval: A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and acquisitions and disposals: and its various committees is set out on page 37.
In addition to these meetings, the full Board attends an annual away-day which focuses certain aspects of human resource policy, including senior on strategy on a divisional basis, material issues facing the Group appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and succession planning.
Outside of the formal schedule of meetings, and pension provision.
the non-executive directors met without the executive directors a number of times during the year.
The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and the directors are able to seek independent professional the Groups budgets, strategy and financial requirements: advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Training is available for new directors and subsequently as necessary.
All directors are the full and interim reports and accounts taking into account subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General the views of the Audit Committee : Meeting following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Executive directors are the appointments of Mr M OFarrell and Mr C V Geoghegan required to seek approval from the Board before accepting any as directors upon the recommendations of the Nomination external non-executive positions, although none is currently held.
Committee : The Remuneration Committee and Board encourage directors and appropriate measures to safeguard the Groups final salary staff at all levels to acquire shares in the Company and to hold pension scheme: them for the longer term.
This sense of ownership is an important element of Kiers culture and of its focus on long-term performance.
the implications of and proper approach to the issues with As far as possible the Group prefers to promote individuals from within.
the Castlepoint shopping centre car park: potential acquisitions: systems and procedures in the Residential division: 36 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Board evaluation No consultancy-related work has been carried out by the auditors The chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board in the during the year.
The Committee was satisfied, following its review, summer of 2007 by way of an externally developed objective that KPMGs objectivity and independence had not been impaired.
This included all the committees of the Board.
The chairman held individual meetings with each director The Committee agreed and approved the audit fee at the June to discuss their views and to canvass suggestions.
The conclusions meeting following discussions between divisional management were discussed collectively by the Board and a number of actions and the divisional KPMG audit teams.
The performance of the chairman is reviewed separately in a process led by the senior independent director.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and were updated in 2004 in line with the guidance and The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executives recommendations of the revised Combined Code.
The terms of are available for inspection at the registered office and will be on reference are available on request and on the Companys website.
display prior to and at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent The Audit Committee comprises the three independent non-executive non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr P M White, directors under the chairmanship of Mr S W Leathes, a chartered who succeeded Mr P F Berry on his retirement on 30 June 2007. accountant with recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr C V Geoghegan was appointed to the Committee with effect Mr C V Geoghegan was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 July 2007. from 1 July 2007.
The Committee met three times during the year in September, March and June prior to the Board meetings.
These Information about the workings of this Committee is contained Committee meetings were also attended by the finance director in the directors remuneration report on page 39.
The Committee and the head of internal audit.
The KPMG audit engagement makes recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework director attended the September and March meetings.
The chairman of executive remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific and executive directors were also invited to attend the meetings.
remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
The Committee also met with KPMG without the presence of In doing so it takes the advice of independent external consultants.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline Nomination Committee its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, The Nomination Committee presently comprises the chairman, the internal controls, risk management and the application of appropriate chief executive and the non-executive directors.
Mr C V Geoghegan accounting policies and procedures.
Specific responsibilities include was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 July 2007.
It is reviewing and recommending for approval the annual and interim responsible for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board, financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting policies, making recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and succession planning.
The Committee met twice during the year.
and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit.
Recruitment consultants were retained in relation to the appointment of Mr C V Geoghegan.
The Committees terms of reference are The Audit Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the available on the Companys website.
Group internal audit function including approval of the annual risk-based audit plan and monitoring the work, recommendations Board and Committee meetings and effectiveness of the function.
The head of internal audit reports Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board, directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out in the table below.
At each of its meetings the Committee received and reviewed a Name of director Board 12 Audit 3 Remuneration 2 Nomination 2 report from the head of internal audit which highlighted the status of the Group risk management processes and audit activity against P T Warry 12 2 the approved plan together with the findings from internal audits.
J Dodds 12 2 The chairman of the Audit Committee also met regularly with the I M Lawson 12 head of internal audit and the Committee has met with the head of D E Mattar 12 internal audit without the presence of management.
The Committee 1 M OFarrell 9 carried out a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function at the June meeting.
M P Sheffield 12 R W Side 12 The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence R W Simkin 12 and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor, and agreeing the level P F Berry 11322 of remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
The Committee received a presentation from KPMG on its audit strategy and the S W Leathes 12322 scope of work at the March meeting which it agreed.
It also P M White 12322 discussed the firms professional ethical standards.
1 Mr M OFarrell was appointed on 1 October 2006.
The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the level of non-audit fees paid to them during the year, which are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The provision of non-audit services, other than tax compliance and routine taxation advice, must be referred to and agreed by the Committee over a pre-determined cost threshold and any work costed below that threshold must be pre-approved by the Group finance director.
37 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control internal audits are carried out to assess the adequacy and The Combined Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness effectiveness of internal controls.
The scope of the internal audit of the Groups system of internal control.
This extends the directors work is planned to cover the key risks faced by the business and review to cover all material controls, including operational, supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
compliance and financial controls and risk management systems.
Internal audit findings are reported to the Audit Committee and The directors are satisfied that procedures are in place to ensure the executive directors on a regular basis: that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and risk registers are in place for each business unit which highlight Wales and that the procedures have been applied during the year.
the key risks facing that business together with an assessment of the effectiveness of controls to mitigate those risks.
The risk The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups registers are updated regularly and at 31 March: system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board considers that the Groups systems and controls are an annual process of risk and control self assessment is used appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to in the Group whereby all operating companies are required significant risks is properly managed.
However, such a system is to review and confirm that appropriate internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to in place and operating effectively across the key risk areas achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and identified in individual company risk registers.
This assessment not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
In reviewing was carried out on 31 March 2007 and the findings reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls, which have been developed by the Audit Committee: and refined over many years, the directors have considered the key risks and exposures within the Group.
regular monitoring, review and reporting of safety, health and environmental matters: and The key features of the Groups system of internal controls and principal controls are: the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected fraud or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
an established management structure operating throughout the Group with clearly defined levels of responsibility and The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor delegation of authorities: their performance and all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels.
These are set During the course of the year, members of the Board visit all out in the Group and divisional standing orders: companies and monitor the control framework of each business.
The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place of internal controls.
which is regularly reviewed and updated: Relations with shareholders a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with business performance, risk and internal control matters is shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
The carried out by the directors of each division with the chief chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee executive and finance director in attendance: are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Group also maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors to assist in monthly management reporting including regular comparison the understanding of the Groups objectives and the Company has a of actual results against latest forecasts: programme of regular communication with investors, analysts and brokers.
Presentations are made to investors, analysts and press at the established policies and procedures governing the Groups time of the announcement of the final and half-year results and there investment in land, property and other significant assets, are regular meetings with analysts and investors which are arranged including acquisitions and disposals.
These include detailed through the Companys brokers so that the investment community appraisals, appropriate authorisation levels and Board approval can be kept informed.
The Board is provided with independent depending on value or perceived exposure: feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders periodically.
investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative PFI The Kier website is also maintained to aid communication with projects and tenders for contracts are subject to approval by investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
the Board, the chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
Individual tender and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before contract award: 38 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
