52 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee consists of four The Committee provides an independent membership, no significant issues or independent non-executive directors.
It is overview of the effectiveness of the Groups concerns were highlighted.
The Committee chaired by Phil Bentley, who is a qualified internal control systems and financial also undertook a form of self assessment, accountant and was, until his recent reporting processes.
Its terms of reference to underpin the external review.
Any issues promotion to become Managing Director were reviewed and updated during the year or actions required as a result of the findings of British Gas, the Group Finance Director and are available at www.
The from either process will be discussed at of Centrica plc and as such is considered principal responsibilities include monitoring one of the four scheduled Committee to be suitably qualified to be the Audit the integrity of the financial statements, meetings across the year.
He, John Nelson including a review of the significant financial During the year and as part of its normal and Michael Hepher served for the whole reporting judgements contained in them, programme, the Committee has considered year.
Margaret Salmon resigned from the and overseeing the work of both the internal and reviewed a number of matters, some Committee on 8 December 2006 on her and the external auditors.
of which were: retirement as a non-executive director.
In 2006 07 there were four Committee Progress on Audit Plans across the Daniel Bernard joined the Committee meetings, with four planned for 2007 08. businesses: on 8 December 2006.
Should the need arise, ad-hoc meetings Risks and controls in certain overseas At the invitation of the Committee, are held.
A forward agenda covering the subsidiaries: and the Chairman of the Board and the Group whole year was used to ensure that the Group minimum control standards, Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, Committees terms of reference were fully including IT.
as did the Group Finance Director, the addressed.
Head of Internal Audit and the external As part of the Board effectiveness Phil Bentley auditors.
There were also regular private evaluation, the Audit Committee was Chairman, Audit Committee meetings with the external and internal independently reviewed by an external 28 March 2007 auditors at which management was consultant.
During the process, which was not present.
conducted during a period of change of Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee comprises the Janis Kong.
The Nomination Committee As a result of this work, the Committee Chairman, all the non-executive directors agreed a skills and role specification for agrees for recommendation to the Board and the Group Chief Executive.
It is chaired each appointment having reviewed the plans and processes for ensuring continuity by Peter Jackson.
Its terms of reference existing skills of the Board.
of experience as well as compliance with are available at www.
In making the recommendation for the the requirement that at least half the Board The Committee reviews annually the two new appointments the Committee felt excluding the Chairman is comprised succession plans for the Board and the the experience of the appointees was of independent non-executive directors.
senior executives and monitors agreed additive and complementary to those of the The Committee met three times during actions.
The succession plan for executive existing Board members.
Two meetings were held to directors is considered by the full Board The Committee keeps the composition consider the two new non-executive so that the necessary input of the serving of the Board under review to monitor directors.
One meeting was held to consider executive directors can be given.
Suitably the continuing independence of the management performance, development qualified external search consultants assist non-executive directors, to identify any and succession plans.
in the search process for all new Board gaps in skills or experience so that appointees and were used in the search appropriate training can be arranged, Peter Jackson for the appointments during the year and to inform the succession plan for Chairman, Nomination Committee of Daniel Bernard Deputy Chairman and future Board appointments.
