Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 39 Corporate Governance report Combined Code statement Kingfishers Board currently comprises and the integrity of financial information Kingfisher is committed to maintaining the the Chairman, two Deputy Chairmen, four and controls, to ensure appropriate highest standards of corporate governance.
other independent non-executive directors, remuneration and succession planning The Board endorses the principles set out the Group Chief Executive and two other for executive directors, and to ensure that in the Combined Code 2003, and during executive directors.
Peter Jackson individual business decisions conform the year ended 3 February 2007 the assumed the role of Chairman following to agreed strategies and policies.
Company has complied in full with the the retirement of Sir Francis Mackay at All directors are provided with, and requirements of the Code throughout the 2006 AGM.
Two new non-executive have full and timely access to, information the year.
directors were appointed during the year.
that enables them to make informed Daniel Bernard, who was appointed nondecisions on corporate and business Board of Directors executive Deputy Chairman on 24 May issues, including operational and financial The role of the Board is to determine the 2006, will share the position of Deputy performance, risk management and Groups strategy and provide appropriate Chairman with John Nelson until the AGM business plans.
In particular, the Board leadership.
It oversees managements in 2007, when Mr Nelson will step down receives monthly information on the implementation of the strategy and acts from that role but will remain as the Senior performance and results of the Group and as a sounding board for senior executives.
Janis Kong was the individual operating businesses.
The It also provides a critical overview of appointed as a non-executive director on executive directors receive daily information strategic risks and monitors the adequacy 8 December 2006 following the retirement on sales and weekly information on margin of the Groups control environment.
of Margaret Salmon after nine years for the Group.
The matters which are reserved to the service as a non-executive director.
In addition to the schedule of matters Board and the authorities delegated to Having regard to the Combined Code, reserved for itself, the Board has delegated management are contained within the and the output from the Board evaluation certain matters to a number of standing Matters Reserved for the Board available process, the Board believes all the noncommittees with defined terms of reference, at www.
com as well as within executive directors to be independent, which are published on the Companys various policies covering such matters as including Michael Hepher, notwithstanding website at www.
The Board treasury management, capital expenditure the fact that he has served for more than members length of service and their approvals, legal matters and internal audit.
committee membership is shown in the The policies referred to above and the There is a clear and documented division table below: system of internal controls are also of responsibilities between the Chairman supported by Kingfishers Code of and the Group Chief Executive, which is Conduct.
A formal review of the Code available at www.
The of Conduct was undertaken during the Senior Independent Director is John Nelson.
year and improvements are currently The non-executive directors share being implemented across all operating responsibility for the execution of the companies.
The Code of Conduct is Boards duties and are actively involved available to all employees in their own in the development of the Companys language and, to the extent possible, strategy.
They are also required to provide forms part of the employees contract advice to the Group Chief Executive, of employment.
to scrutinise performance and assess risks Name Length of service Age Board Committee membership Peter Jackson 1 year and 3 months 60 Nomination Chairman Phil Bentley 4 years and 6 months 48 Audit Chairman, Nomination Daniel Bernard 10 months 61 Audit, Nomination Ian Cheshire 6 years and 10 months 47 Executive Michael Hepher 9 years and 7 months 63 Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Janis Kong 4 months 56 Nomination, Remuneration Hartmut Krmer 4 years and 5 months 60 Nomination Gerry Murphy 4 years and 2 months 51 Nomination, Executive, Disclosure John Nelson 5 years and 3 months 59 Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Duncan Tatton-Brown 3 years and 2 months 42 Executive, Disclosure 40 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Corporate Governance report continued The directors biographies, which can be External training at the Companys expense The Board regards independent found on pages 34 and 35, illustrate the is available on an ongoing basis and the performance evaluation as an important directors range of experience, which is Board visits and meets with a number part of monitoring and improving its intended to provide an effective Board to of operating companies and their effectiveness.
This year a further evaluation lead and control Kingfisher.
Non-executive management teams each year.
of the Board and its committees was directors are appointed for an initial term In addition, ad hoc update training undertaken by JCA, an independent of three years.
is provided on appropriate matters and consultant and the output and implications in 2006 this included relevant sections for improvement were considered by the On appointment, each director receives of the Companies Act 2006, including whole Board.
a tailored induction programme which in particular those affecting directors and The results of the Board evaluation are includes: their responsibilities.
used by the Chairman for assessing the Individual time with the Chairman, the Comprehensive Directors & Officers individual performance of directors and will Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance liability insurance is provided by a reputable inform the Nomination Committees Director and other senior corporate insurer covering all past, present and future assessment of the skills required by any executives: director and officer appointments.
Cover is new non-executive directors.
Visits to Group and competitors stores: in respect of any actual or alleged breach The attendance record of individual Meetings with management of the of duty, breach of trust, neglect, error, directors at Board and committee operating businesses: and misleading statement, omission, breach meetings is detailed below.
In addition the External training courses at the Companys of warranty or authority or other act by the non-executive directors met separately, expense, if required.
directors in their respective capacity.
Board meetings Committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Disclosure Number of meetings in year 9434 12 2 1 Francis Mackay 2112 - - Peter Jackson 8433 - - Gerry Murphy 9334 12 2 John Nelson 9434 - - Phil Bentley 9 4 3--- 2 Daniel Bernard 6- 2--- Ian Cheshire 9 - 2 - 10 - Michael Hepher 9434 - - 3 Janis Kong 2----- Hartmut Krmer 9 - 3 1 - - 4 Margaret Salmon 7334 - - Duncan Tatton-Brown 9422 12 2 1 Resigned on 24 May 2006 2 Appointed on 24 May 2006 3 Appointed on 8 December 2006 4 Resigned on 8 December 2006 Non-attendance at Board and Committee The details of the Remuneration Company Secretary meetings is rare, usually when either an Committee are in the Remuneration report All directors have access to, and the unexpected commitment arises, or, for on pages 43 to 51. services of, the Company Secretary and newly appointed directors, there is a prior The Executive Committee formally may take independent professional advice clash with a meeting which had been comprises the executive directors of the at Kingfishers expense.
timetabled and could not be rearranged.
In addition, members of the senior Directors are generally provided with the management team attend the meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary papers for Board and Committee meetings The Committees terms of reference can to all of the above Committees.
a week in advance of the meeting and be found at www.
The directors who are unable to attend provide Committee provides an effective method The Company Secretary is also responsible comments and feedback to either the of ensuring the active participation of for facilitating the induction and professional Chairman, Chairman of the Committee senior operational management in development of Board members as well or the Company Secretary, all of whom understanding the key issues facing as ensuring good information flows within ensure those comments and views are Kingfisher, as a UK listed company.
The the Board, its Committees and between raised at the meeting.
Committees responsibilities in relation the non-executive directors and Details of the Audit and Nomination to risk management and internal control, senior management.
Committees are provided in the individual and corporate responsibility, are set out on reports of those Committees on page 52. page 42.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 41 Relations with shareholders Auditor independence absolute assurance against material Kingfisher is committed to an active Kingfishers rules and authorisation misstatement or loss.
dialogue with its shareholders through processes for the instruction of the The key elements of the internal a planned programme of investor relations.
auditors for non-audit work: were reviewed control process are summarised below: This activity is a key component of its and updated in 2005 and details can be corporate communications programme found at www.
The auditors The Board, which: and is headed by the Group are precluded from engaging in non-audit Has approved a set of policies, Communications Director, Ian Harding.
services that would compromise their procedures and frameworks for effective Shareholders also receive Annual and independence or violate any laws or internal control, including the provision Interim Reports and the investors section regulations affecting their appointment as of quality internal and external reporting of Kingfishers website auditors.
Approval of the Chairman of the and compliance with applicable laws and www.
com investors includes Audit Committee is required prior to regulations, which are periodically copies of all these, all trading updates, awarding contracts for non-audit services to reviewed and updated: press announcements and presentations the external auditors in excess of a specified Regularly reviews and updates the Groups to shareholders.
The external auditors report to strategy and those of its operating The investor relations programme the Audit Committee annually on their companies: included formal presentations of full year independence from the Company.
Periodic Reviews and assesses Kingfishers key and interim results, conference calls to rotation of key partners is also required.
risks at least annually: discuss quarterly trading statements on Each of the Groups businesses are Reviews performance through a three other occasions during the year, consulted on the effectiveness and comprehensive system of reporting, based and regular meetings between institutional independence of the Auditors annually.
on an annual budget with monthly business investors and senior management.
In addition the Auditors provide the Audit reviews against actual results, analysis The Board believes that there are Committee with a schedule of each matter of variances, key performance indicators sufficient opportunities for the necessary on which there was an initial difference and regular forecasting: dialogue with shareholders and the Board.
between them and management in relation Has well defined policies governing Apart from the consultation noted above, to the accounting treatment, with the advice appraisal and approval of capital expenditure these include regular meetings between if needed of the firms technical committee, and treasury operations: investors and management, the availability and with the final decisions on these issues.
Seeks assurance that effective control of all the non-executive directors for The Audit Committee considers annually is being maintained through regular reports meetings if so requested by the whether the audit should go out to tender from the Audit Committee and various shareholders and a standing invitation for but has taken the view that partner independent monitoring functions.
the non-executive directors to attend any rotation at both the Group and operating of the major presentations by business level has been sufficient to The Audit Committee which, in respect management to shareholders.
The Senior maintain the necessary independence.
of the Group: Independent Director, John Nelson, is Monitors the integrity of the financial available to shareholders if there are Accountability, risk management and statements and any formal announcements concerns that cannot be resolved through internal control relating to financial performance: normal channels of communication.
Internal control Reviews and evaluates the internal The Board received regular reports The Board considers risk assessment, financial risk, and other internal controls concerning institutional shareholder identification of mitigating actions and and their associated systems: meetings and their issues and concerns.
internal control to be fundamental to Monitors and reviews the effectiveness This process and reporting allows achieving Kingfishers strategic of the internal audit function: the directors to develop the necessary corporate objectives.
Considers and reviews the reports from understanding of the views of the the external auditors on the principal shareholders and also enables the Board This system of internal control is: reporting issues faced by the Group.
to judge whether the investors have The Boards overall responsibility: a sufficient understanding of the Regularly, and at least annually, reviewed The Executive Committee which, in respect Companys objectives.
for its effectiveness by both the Board and of the Group: Both institutional and private the Audit Committee: Reviews and makes recommendations to shareholders are welcome at the AGM, In compliance with the Turnbull guidance the Board, where appropriate, regarding: which includes a presentation on the 2005: and The strategic and business plans of Groups business by the Group Chief Supported by Kingfishers policies in such individual businesses and the strategic Executive.
The AGM also provides an areas as Code of Conduct, legal and choices of the Group: opportunity for shareholders to discuss secretarial, finance and treasury.
The annual budget and capital with executive and non-executive directors expenditure proposals for the Group: any issues concerning the Company and However, such a system is designed Management development and senior its activities.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk executive succession plans.
of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not 42 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Corporate Governance report continued Oversees and reviews the Groups Corporate The Internal Audit and Risk Management Environmental, social and governance responsibility programme and operating function which: ESG companies individual progress: with the Works with the operating companies The Executive Committee oversees Group Chief Executive reporting to the to develop, improve and embed risk corporate responsibility including Board at least annually on issues, progress management tools and processes into environment, social and governance matters, and recommendations for change.
their business operations: its terms of reference can be found on the Approves or, where appropriate, Oversees the operation of the individual website www.
The Board recommends to the Board any acquisitions operating businesses audit committees: recognises the importance of ESG matters or disposals of companies, businesses or Ensures that business risks are identified, and receives information concerning any significant assets: managed and regularly reviewed at all risks that may be posed regarding such Reviews periodically as necessary the levels of the Group and that directors are matters from the Group Chief Executive communications messages to the investor periodically appraised of the key risks in and the Executive Committee.
The Board community for effectiveness and relevance.
accordance with the Turnbull guidance: formally reviews progress at least on an It also ensures any issues regarding Provides the Board with objective annual basis.
strategy and performance that the investor assurance on the control environment Key ESG issues are managed through community are expressing are fully across the Group: Kingfishers Corporate Responsibility Policy understood, that these are communicated Ensures that the operating companies have and Steps to Responsible Growth appropriately to the Board and actions are appropriate organisation and processes management system which is shown taken to address any legitimate concerns: to carry out regular and effective reviews on pages 18 and 19.
In addition, Kingfisher Oversees the work of the Treasury of their internal controls: has a Code of Conduct for employees Committee and reviews and approves on Monitors adherence to the Groups key which provides guidance on governance behalf of the Board any significant or unusual policies and principles: and issues.
Non-compliance with the Code treasury transactions within the limits set Provides the Group Audit Committee with is a disciplinary issue.
out in the Treasury Policy and exercises all necessary assurances on the control Kingfisher is developing a Corporate powers of execution and delivery of the environment.
responsibility risk register to ensure Board in relation to the approval and a common approach across the Group authorisation for signature of financing Whilst management at each operating to the way these risks are identified and documents within the Committees terms business has responsibility for the managed.
Work is underway to review the of reference and authority limits: and identification and evaluation of significant range of potential issues for the register, Allots new shares in the Company to risks applicable to their business and any their magnitude and probability of employees following the exercise of share mitigating actions to be taken, Group occurrence.
In addition, the register will options in schemes approved by the executive management reviews, identifies identify the range of mitigating controls Board and shareholders.
and evaluates the risks which are significant in place to minimise the potential impact at a Group level as well as the mitigating of the risks.
The business head of each operating actions against those risks.
These are then An overview of progress on Corporate company business area who: considered by the Board after review by responsibility can be found on pages Maintains systems that continually identify the Audit Committee.
A more detailed Corporate and evaluate significant risks affecting their identified include strategic risk, external responsibility report is also published, strategies and that apply to their areas factors such as competition, environment which is available on the website of the business: and regulation, change management www.
com cr, and as a Reviews and monitors the effectiveness programmes, health and safety, retention printed summary.
of internal control systems through of key management and macro market an operating company audit committee risks.
The Internal Audit plans are designed By Order of the Board and reports from internal and external to address the controls and actions in Helen Jones audit functions: relation to each businesss significant Company Secretary Has responsibility for identification and identified risks.
Where appropriate, the risk 28 March 2007 evaluation of significant risks to their management process will include the use business area, together with the design of insurance.
of mitigating controls: The directors confirm they have reviewed Has responsibility for and ensures the the effectiveness of this system of internal effective functioning of their operating control, that any necessary action has company audit committee: been or is being taken to remedy any Self-certifies that internal control significant failings or weaknesses identified processes are in place and that they from the review and that it accords with the comply with Group policies: and guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Supported by their operating company internal control.
audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group.
