Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid 19 3 08 11:53 Page 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board continues to be committed to high standards All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
of his or her period of office, but without prejudice to of corporate governance.
The Board strives to provide A combination of tailored Board and committee any claim for damages which the director may have the right leadership, strategic oversight and control agenda items and other Board activities, including for breach of any contract of service between him environment to produce and sustain delivery of value briefing sessions, assist the directors in continually or her and the Company.
to all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board updating their skills and the knowledge and familiarity A person also ceases to be a director if he or she applies integrity, principles of good corporate with the Company required to fulfill their role both on resigns in writing, ceases to be a director by virtue governance and accountability throughout its activities the Board and on Board committees.
In addition, of any provision of the Companies Act, becomes and each director brings independence of character external seminars, workshops and presentations are prohibited by law from being a director, becomes and judgement to the role.
All of the members of the made available to directors.
The Company provides bankrupt or is the subject of a relevant insolvency Board are individually and collectively aware of their the necessary resources for developing and updating procedure, or is requested to resign by notice signed responsibilities to the Companys stakeholders.
by all the other directors, or if the Board so decides The following describes the Boards approach to The Chairman conducts an appraisal with each following at least six months absence without leave corporate governance and how the Combined Code director.
The Senior Independent Director, having or he or she becomes subject to relevant procedures on Corporate Governance has been applied.
consulted with the other directors, conducts an under the mental health laws.
Compliance statement appraisal interview with the Chairman.
Each director Powers of the Companys directors The Company has complied throughout 2007 with completes a questionnaire on the effectiveness Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined and processes of the Board and its committees.
the memorandum and articles of association of the Code on Corporate Governance that was published The results are considered by the Board and the Company and to any directions given by shareholders in June 2006. individual committees.
by special resolution, the Companys articles of Board Whilst all directors are expected to bring an association specify that the business of the Company The Board currently comprises the non-executive independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, is to be managed by the directors, who may exercise Chairman, four executive directors and five independent performance, resources including key appointments all the powers of the Company, whether relating to non-executive directors.
The Chairman has a primary and standards of conduct, the independent nonthe management of the business or not.
responsibility for the running of the Board and for executive directors were selected and appointed Board committees ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Board has four standing committees, all of which The Chief Executive is responsible for the operations The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the have written terms of reference clearly setting out their and for the development of strategic plans and Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The terms of reference of the initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division audit, nomination and remuneration committees, Appointment and replacement of directors of responsibilities between the Chairman and the which are reviewed annually, can be viewed on the A person may be appointed as a director of the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out Companys website www.
Company by the shareholders in general meeting by in writing and agreed by the Board.
Mr N M H Jones ordinary resolution requiring a simple majority of the Audit committee acts as Senior Independent Director replacing Mr L P persons voting on the relevant resolution or by the The members of the committee are Mr N M H Jones Lupo on his resignation as a director on 18 May 2007, directors: no person, other than a director retiring appointed as a member and Chairman on 16 May the principal roles and responsibilities of which are by rotation or otherwise, shall be appointed or 2003, Ms C P Wicks appointed 1 June 2004 and described elsewhere.
re-appointed a director at any general meeting unless Mr H E Staunton appointed 1 September 2006.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman he or she is recommended by the directors or not less All members of the committee are independent nonduring 2007 are detailed in his biography on page 29. than seven nor more than 35 clear days before the date executive directors.
Appointments to the committee The Board schedules eight meetings each year, but appointed for the meeting, notice is given to the are made by the Board at the recommendation of arranges to meet at other times, as appropriate.
Of the Company of the intention to propose that person for the nomination committee, which consults with nine board meetings held in 2007, Mr C Rodrigues appointment or re-appointment in the form and manner the Chairman of the audit committee.
and Ms C P Wicks were both unable to attend the set out in the Companys articles of association.
The Board has satisfied itself that the members one unscheduled meeting due to other business Each director who is appointed by the directors and of the committee have recent and relevant commitments.
In addition, the Chairman met during who has not been elected as a director of the financial experience.
the year with the non-executive directors without the Company by the members at a general meeting held The committee is provided with sufficient resources to executive directors present.
in the interval since his or her appointment as a director undertake its duties.
It has access to the services of the The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically of the Company is subject to election as a director Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the reserved for its decision and approval.
These include of the Company by the members at the first annual committee and all other employees.
The committee the approval of the strategic and annual profit general meeting following his or her appointment.
is able to take independent legal or professional advice plans, key public information releases e. g. financial Each director is subject to re-election by the members when it believes it necessary to do so.
statements, dividends, major acquisitions and at the third annual general meeting following his or her The committee meets as required, but not less disposals, material contracts, treasury and other election or last re-election by the members in general than three times a year.
Four meetings of the audit group policies.
The section Internal control on meeting or at such earlier annual general meeting as committee were held in 2007 and all the members pages 34 and 35 contains further information on the directors may decide.
The independent nonof the committee were in attendance.
Although other how the Board operates.
executive directors understand that the Board will directors, including the Group Finance Director, attend not automatically recommend their re-election by The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is audit committee meetings, the committee also meets shareholders.
The Chairman and the independent nonsupplied with appropriate and timely information to for private discussions with the external auditor, who executive directors are appointed for a specified term enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board requests attends all of its meetings, and can do so with the of approximately three years, subject to re-election.
additional information or variations to regular reporting internal auditor.
A procedure exists for directors to seek The Companies Act allows shareholders in general independent professional advice in the furtherance meeting by ordinary resolution requiring a simple of their duties, if necessary.
All directors have access majority of the persons voting on the relevant to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
resolution to remove any director before the expiration Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid 19 3 08 11:53 Page 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The main role and responsibilities of the committee Nomination committee Internal control are to: The members of the committee are the Chairman of The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system monitor the integrity of the financial statements the Board and two or more independent non-executive of internal control operating throughout the Group of the Company: directors of the Company.
The current members and for reviewing its effectiveness.
No system of review the Companys internal financial control and of the committee are Sir Ian Robinson Chairman internal control can provide absolute assurance against risk management systems: appointed as a member and Chairman on 1 October material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is monitor and review the effectiveness of the 2001, Mr N M H Jones appointed 16 May 2003 and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Companys internal audit function: and Mr C J Rodrigues appointed 18 May 2007.
Mr L P failure to achieve business objectives and to provide oversee the Companys relationship with the external Lupo resigned from the committee on 18 May 2007. the Board with reasonable assurance that potential auditor including the recommendation to the Board problems will normally be prevented or will be detected Appointments to the committee are made by the Board.
of its appointment and remuneration.
in a timely manner for appropriate action.
The committee is provided with sufficient resources Should the committees monitoring and review The Company has had procedures in place throughout to undertake its duties.
It has access to the services of activities reveal any material cause for concern or the year and up to 28 February 2008, the date of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the scope for improvement, it will make recommendations approval of this Annual Report, which accord with the committee and all other employees.
The committee is to the Board on action needed to address the issue Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the able to take independent legal and professional advice or make improvements.
Combined Code published in September 1999. when it believes it necessary to do so.
The main activities of the committee in 2007 were The Board has delegated the detailed design of the The committee meets as required but not less than as follows: system of internal control to the executive directors.
Two meetings of the committee were held with the assistance of reports received from in 2007 and all the members of the committee were The control framework and key procedures during management and the external auditor, the critical in attendance.
2007 were as follows: review of the significant financial reporting issues in the Group operates through two divisions European The main role and responsibilities of the committee connection with the preparation of the Companys Retail and Remote Betting and Gaming.
are to: financial and related formal statements: Responsibilities for managing business risks arising review the structure, size and composition of the assessing the scope and effectiveness of the were defined by the Board: Board which includes an objective and systems established to identify, assess, manage the executive directors met regularly together comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, and monitor financial and non-financial risks: and with other senior executives the executive knowledge and experience of the Board and make monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal committee to consider Group financial performance, recommendations to the Board with regard to financial controls.
business development and Group management any changes: The committee does so by reference to: issues.
Divisional management comprised consider succession planning for the directors and a summaries of business risks and executives with appropriate functional other senior executives and make recommendations mitigating controls: responsibilities.
Divisional management met regularly to the Board: b regular reports and presentations from the to manage their respective businesses: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board head of key risk functions, internal audit the Board established corporate strategy and candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when and external audit: Group business objectives.
Divisional management they arise: c the results of the system of annual selfintegrated such objectives into business strategies review the leadership of the Company to ensure the certification of compliance with key controls for presentation to the Board with supporting continued ability of the Company to compete and procedures: financial objectives: effectively in the marketplace: monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and there was an ongoing process for identifying, recommend candidates for the role of Senior effectiveness of the internal audit function, including evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Independent Director and for membership of the any actions taken following any significant failures in by the Group.
Major business risks and their financial audit and remuneration committees, in consultation internal controls: implications were appraised by the responsible with the Chairmen of those committees: and reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of executives and endorsed by the divisional make recommendations to the Board concerning engagement, the findings of its work, and at the end management.
This was an integral part of the the re-appointment of non-executive directors at the of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and strategic planning process.
The appropriateness end of their specified term of office and the re-election reviewing the independence and objectivity of the of controls was considered by executives, having by shareholders of any director under the retirement external auditor.
regard to cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood by rotation provisions.
The external auditor reports to the committee of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate The committee performed the above activities on the actions taken to comply with professional those risks were considered at each regular Board as necessary in 2007. and regulatory requirements and with best practice meeting and were formally reviewed and approved designed to ensure its independence.
The committee by the Board twice yearly: During 2007 one executive director, Mr B G Wallace, has agreed a policy on the engagement of the external divisional budgets, containing financial and operating was appointed on 5 March 2007.
Mr Wallace auditor to supply non-audit services, the application targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance replaced Ms R P Thorne as finance director.
Due to of which it monitors.
The policy, which can be viewed indicators, were reviewed by the executive directors Mr Wallaces recent service with the Company see at the Companys website www.
com, and supported divisional business strategies.
The his biography on page 28 he was well known by the specifies services that may not be provided and Group profit plan was approved by the Board: members of the committee and accordingly external contains a level of cost at which committee approval reports on Group and divisional performances advice or external advertising had not been used is required enabling the committee to satisfy itself that were regularly provided to directors and discussed in making his appointment.
auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
Performance against both Remuneration committee budgets and objectives together with management Finance committee Details of the remuneration committee, including of business risks, were reviewed with divisional This committee meets as required to deal with all membership, are set out in the Directors management, as were forecasts and material routine business that excludes matters that are Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48, which sensitivities.
The Board regularly received reports specifically reserved to the Board or to another should be read in conjunction with this section from key executives and functional heads covering committee and specific matters delegated to it by of this report.
areas such as operations, forecasts, business the Board requiring attention between scheduled development, strategic planning, human resources, Board meetings.
Any two directors can conduct legal and corporate matters, compliance, health the business of this committee.
and safety and corporate responsibility: 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid 19 3 08 11:53 Page 35 there was a group-wide policy governing appraisal The Company corresponds regularly on a range A member may choose whether his or her shares are and approval of investment expenditure and asset of subjects with its individual shareholders who have evidenced by share certificates certificated shares disposals.
Major projects were reported on at each an opportunity to question the Board at the Annual or held in electronic uncertificated form in CREST regular Board meeting.
Post investment audits were General Meeting.
A presentation was given to the the UK electronic settlement system.
Any member undertaken on a systematic basis and were formally members of the UK Shareholders Association during may transfer all or any of his or her shares subject in reviewed by the Board twice yearly: the year.
For further information on our relations the case of certificated shares to the rules set out in key policies and control procedures including with shareholders please refer to our Investor the Companys articles of association or in the case treasury, compliance and information system Relations Shareholder Review on pages 117 to 119. of uncertificated shares the regulations governing the controls are documented in manuals having operation of CREST which allow the directors to refuse Rights attaching to the shares and restrictions group-wide application.
Operating companies to register a transfer as therein set out : the transferor on voting and transfer also used procedure manuals that integrated remains the holder of the shares until the name of the The Companys share capital is 253.0 million divided with Group controls: transferee is entered in the register of members.
The 1 into 892,941,175 ordinary shares of 28 3p each.
a system of annual self-certification of compliance directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated Subject to any suspension or abrogation of rights with key controls and procedures was operated shares in favour of more than four persons jointly or pursuant to relevant law or the Companys articles of throughout the Group: where there is no adequate evidence of ownership or association, the ordinary shares confer on their holders the Group had an internal audit function, outsourced the transfer is not duly stamped if so required.
The other than the Company in respect of its treasury shares : to Deloitte & Touche LLP, which reported to directors may also refuse to register a share transfer a the right to receive out of profits available for management on the Groups operations: and if it is in respect of a certificated share which is not fully distribution such dividends as may be agreed to be to underpin the effectiveness of controls, it was paid up or on which the Company has a lien provided paid in the case of a final dividend in an amount not the Groups policy to recruit and develop that, where the share transfer is in respect of any share exceeding the amount recommended by the Board management and staff of high calibre, integrity admitted to the Official List maintained by the UK as approved by shareholders in general meeting and with appropriate disciplines.
High standards Listing Authority, any such discretion may not be or in the case of an interim dividend in an amount of business ethics and compliance with laws, exercised so as to prevent dealings taking place on determined by the Board all dividends unclaimed regulations and internal policies were demanded an open and proper basis, or if in the opinion of the for a period of 12 years after having become due from staff at all levels.
directors and with the concurrence of the UK Listing for payment are forfeited automatically and cease Authority exceptional circumstances so warrant The role of the audit committee in reviewing the to remain owing by the Company: provided that the exercise of such power will not effectiveness of the system of internal control is b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, disturb the market in those shares.
Whilst there are explained in the section Audit committee on pages reduction of capital or otherwise, to share in the no squeeze-out and sell out rules relating to the shares 33 and 34. surplus assets of the Company remaining after in the Companys articles of association, shareholders payment of its liabilities pari passu with the other The Board also conducts an assessment of are subject to the compulsory acquisition provisions in holders of ordinary shares: and the effectiveness of the internal control system.
sections 974 to 991 of the Companies Act 2006 and c the right to receive notice of and to attend and The assessment takes account of all significant can be required by the Company to transfer their speak and vote in person or by proxy at any general aspects of internal control including: risk assessment: shares following certain action by a gambling industry meeting of the Company on a show of hands the control environment and control activities: regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys every member present or represented and voting information and communication: and monitoring.
has one vote and on a poll every member present Relations with shareholders or represented and voting has one vote for every Amendment of the Companys articles There is a regular programme of meetings with major share of which that member is the holder: the of association institutional shareholders to consider the Groups appointment of a proxy must be received not less The Companys articles of association may be performance and prospects.
In addition, presentations than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the amended by the members of the Company by special are made twice yearly after the announcement of relevant meeting or adjourned meeting or in the resolution requiring a majority of at least 75 per cent results, the details of which, together with the Groups case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
financial reports and announcements, can be same day as the relevant meeting or adjourned accessed via the Groups internet site.
The Chairman meeting be received after the poll has been met in 2007 with several institutional investors and demanded and not less than 24 hours before their representative bodies in addition to results the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
Other These rights can be suspended.
If the member, or any directors are available to meet the Companys major other person appearing to be interested in shares held shareholders if requested.
by that member, has failed to comply with a notice The Senior Independent Director is available to pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 shareholders if they have concerns, which contact notice by company requiring information about through the usual channels of Chairman, Chief interests in its shares the Company can suspend Executive and Finance Director has failed to solve until one week after the default ceases the right to or for which such contact is inappropriate.
attend and speak and vote at a general meeting and if the shares represent at least 0.25 per cent of their The Board receives a monthly market report from the class the Company can withhold any dividend or other Companys brokers who also present to the Board money payable in respect of the shares and refuse annually.
A twice-yearly presentation is made to the to accept certain transfers of the relevant shares.
In Board reporting on the programme of meetings with addition following certain action by a gambling industry major institutional shareholders and a report on regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys investor relations is given at each board meeting.
articles of association the Company may suspend all Principles of ownership, corporate governance and or some of the rights attaching to all or some of the voting guidelines issued by the Companys major shares held by any relevant shareholder to attend institutional shareholders, their representative bodies and to speak at meetings and to vote, to receive any and advisory organisations are circulated to, and dividend or other money payable in respect of the considered by, the Board.
shares, and to the issue of further shares or other securities in respect of the shares.
