Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2007 The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of section 1 Companies of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 32 and 33.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
Mr Reading is the senior independent non-executive director.
The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive.
As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the senior non-executive director.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Nigel Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993.
Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office.
Such rotation of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting.
All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders Communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
Additional information, including copies of press releases, is published on the Companys website.
Presentations covering strategic issues as well as financial and operating performance were made to major shareholders through investor roadshows in the UK, USA and Continental Europe during the year.
The Laird Group, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Companys objectives.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings.
The Board is kept up to date with investors views through the distribution of analysts and brokers notes.
In addition, the Companys stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides non-attributable feedback which is reported to the Board.
Following presentations to analysts of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board.
From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis are commissioned.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
The Chairman has met with various investors during the year, for discussions including issues of strategy, governance and remuneration.
The senior independent director and the Chairman attended one meeting with an institutional shareholder and the senior independent director, in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has had discussions with three institutional shareholders.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders and encourages them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting.
A copy of his statement is issued to the London Stock Exchange and is published on the Companys website.
All of the directors attended the AGM in 2007 and the chairmen of the various Board Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
38 The Laird Group PLC Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A M Robb.
The other members of the Committee during the year were Mr A J Reading and Dr W R Spivey.
The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb: all of the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs financial statements prior to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls.
It considers the scope and planning of internal and external financial audits and the findings of those audits.
The Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers set out in the Companys Business Ethics and Conduct Policy, which is on the Companys website, and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the external auditors are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The Committee and the external auditors met formally without any executive directors present twice during the year.
During the year, the Audit Committee met seven times.
The Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM Statement, the Interim Report and the December Trading Update were reviewed before recommending them to the Board for approval.
It also reviewed the Unaudited Interim Financial Statements for the Company for the period ended 11 May 2007 which were prepared prior to paying the Special Dividend of 50p per share to shareholders on 22 June 2007.
The appointment and terms of engagement of the external auditor were considered and the independence of the external auditors assessed.
The auditors policy for the rotation of audit partners was also reviewed.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures.
During the year a review of the provision of internal audit services was conducted and a new global provider appointed.
The Committee also agrees to the audit fee and recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This policy prohibits the use of the external audit firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees.
There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services.
For example, during the year, Ernst & Young LLP undertook work in connection with the Circular to shareholders dated 19 March 2007 and more generally on the disposal of Laird Security Systems Division where to use another firm would have added considerably to the cost and the time required to complete the work.
They undertook financial due diligence on the acquisitions of AeroComm Inc. Cushcraft Holdings Corporation and M2Sys Co. Ltd. and also provided tax planning and compliance advice and regulatory compliance work.
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 66.
The Committee recommends to the shareholders, through the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors at the Annual General Meeting and the authority for the fixing of their remuneration.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and comprised Mr A J Reading and Sir Christopher Hum.
The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board.
It reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr A J Reading.
Currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the other non-executive directors, it met six times in 2007 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 45.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Performance of the Board During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees.
Following completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman led discussions to consider the Boards behaviours and processes.
Certain areas were identified for improvement or action.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon.
The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the performance of the executive directors.
Board attendance The Board had nine meetings during 2007.
All of the directors attended all of the Meetings.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting.
The Laird Group PLC 39 Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2007 There were seven Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee Meetings and one Nominations Committee Meeting during the year, at all of which there was full attendance.
Internal control The Laird Group PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses now primarily located overseas, following the sale of Laird Security Systems in April 2007.
These activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by The Laird Group Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with The Laird Group Board.
During the year a review was carried out which assessed the adequacy of those systems.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries.
The Groups executive directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board thereon.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
Acquisitions during that period were subject to due diligence prior to their purchase and are required to adopt the Groups procedures thereafter.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives.
These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to the Groups executive directors.
As part of this process they are required to identify the key risks and opportunities that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities.
The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect The Laird Group as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
During the year, the Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director and with members drawn from the Groups businesses, examined aspects of operational risk within the Group.
The RMG, which met three times during the year, reports to the Board.
The principal objectives of the RMG were to identify potential risks, physical exposure and business interruption issues associated with each operating companys business and their wider implications for the Group as a whole: to review business continuity planning and emergency response procedures: to develop contingency plans and to oversee the implementation of remedial actions where appropriate: and to continue to develop and ensure the implementation of best risk management practice throughout the Group and review the results of comprehensive self-assessment control reviews by subsidiary management.
The RMG also oversaw Health, Safety and Environmental issues using external advisers to assist where appropriate.
From November 2007, a revised structure was introduced to progress the development of risk management.
Risk identification and review in all areas below corporate level and improvements in controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee RMC, chaired by the Laird Technologies Chief Operating Officer.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and risk oversight at Group level rests with a revised RMG to which the RMC reports.
The revised RMG is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
The RMC and RMG will each meet at least three times a year.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Laird Technologies Chief Operating Officer are members of both committees, reinforcing consistency and linking between the Laird Groups risk management strategy and its implementation in all countries.
Further details on the RMG and RMC are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44.
The Audit Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of their audit, the external auditors, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
