Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report The Board endorses and supports the best practice one of these meetings is normally held outside the UK, guidelines contained in the 2006 Financial Reporting although no Board meetings were held outside the Councils Combined Code the Combined Code UK in 2007. through its commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Apart from a few limited A table showing the attendance of P P 5 52 2 exceptions as described below, the Board believes that Directors at scheduled meetings of the Group has fully complied with the Combined Code the Board can be found on page 52 throughout 2007: where it has not, an explanation has been provided.
The Company has complied with the Proposed actions are recorded in the Board minutes listing requirements of the UK Listing Authority and or, where appropriate, in relevant Committee minutes, those of the Authority for the Financial Markets AFM together with any concerns that members of the Board in the Netherlands.
The Company also complies may have regarding the running of the Company.
with the rules and regulations of the Nordic exchange llo og giic ca a.. c co om m g go ov five errn na an nc ce e and the Swedish financial supervisory authority, The Terms of Reference Finansinspektionen, which authorises, supervises for the Board are and monitors all companies operating in the Swedish available on the financial market.
Companys website or can be obtained from the The Board Company Secretary The Board utilises a framework of prudent and effective controls in order to determine and manage Board composition the Groups goals, together with the necessary At the date of this report the Board is comprised strategies and policies to achieve these goals.
The of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and six Companys values and the standards set by the Board Non-Executive Directors.
Following the planned are upheld throughout the Group with the assistance departure of Jim McKenna and Angela Knight later of the Executive Management, Internal Audit, Quality in 2008, the number of Directors will reduce to nine, Assurance and Risk Management functions.
During comprising the Chairman, three Executive Directors 2007 the Board has considered reports from the Chief and five Non-Executive Directors.
The roles of the Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate Chief Operating Officer, together with reports from and each has clearly defined responsibilities.
heads of business and specialist functions.
As part of our ongoing succession planning The Board ordinarily meets six times a year programme and in line with feedback received from and is available to hold additional meetings when shareholders during the year, a number of changes circumstances require five additional meetings in were made to the Board during 2007.
The number of routine meetings is judged to be changes made to the Board during the year can be sufficient to discharge the Boards duties effectively.
In order to reflect the geographical spread of the Group, and to provide the Board with a higher level of Biographical details of the P P 3 36 6 visibility to the Groups overseas operations, at least current Directors can be found on pages 36 to 37 Governance structure at 20 March 2008 Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee see pages 38 to 39 Roger Payne Chairman Nol Harwerth Chairman David Tyler Chairman Wim Dik Wolfhart Hauser Wim Dik Wolfhart Hauser Angela Knight Andy Green Angela Knight David Tyler Nol Harwerth Roger Payne 44 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Balance of Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors at non-executive, independent 20 March 2008 1 Independent Non- 5 4 Executive Directors Executive Directors 1 Non-Executive Director not independent The Board has a Nominations Committee to evaluate The names and biographical P P 3 36 6 the balance of skills, knowledge and experience details of the Directors, including of individual Board members and to make, where those seeking election and appropriate, recommendations for appointments to re-election at the 2008 AGM, the Board.
During 2007 suitable candidates for the can be found on pages 36 to 37 position of Deputy Chairman were identified while undertaking an external search for independent NonNon-Executive Directors Independence Executive Directors.
In addition, independent external The Board recognises the valuable contribution recruitment consultants were appointed to help identify independent Directors can make.
During 2007 the potential candidates for the role of Chief Executive Board considered the independence of the NonOfficer.
Interviews with candidates were undertaken Executive Directors and concluded that each of and recommended appointments were unanimously the Non-Executive Directors were independent approved by the Board.
Cor Stutterheim, with the in character and judgement.
However, under the support of Wim Dik, led the Committee in the process Combined Code, Cor Stutterheim, who retired on for appointing the Deputy Chairman and David Tyler led 1 November 2007, and Grard Philippot were not the process for appointing the Chief Executive Officer.
considered independent during the year according to Following the appointment of Directors by the Board, provisions A.
3.1 respectively, due to their in accordance with the Articles of Association, Nol previous executive positions in CMG plc and Unilog Harwerth and Wolfhart Hausers appointments were S. A. respectively.
The Company believes that all Nonratified by the shareholders at the Annual General Executive Directors bring relevant experience to the Meeting in 2007.
Andy Green and David Tyler will be Board and make valuable contributions to achieving its proposed for election at the forthcoming AGM in 2008. objectives.
They do not act with self-interest and their The Nominations Committee, in accordance with its primary aims are to maximise shareholder wealth and terms of reference and the Companys Articles of develop the Company in line with its strategic goals.
Association, has proposed Jim McKenna, Roger Payne During the year, the Company believes that none and Wim Dik for re-election at the 2008 AGM.
Directors of the Non-Executive Directors held significant submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM commitments outside the Company which have been subject to a rigorous, formal performance would interfere with their ability to execute their evaluation and were found to have performed responsibilities effectively.
Copies of the Directors terms and conditions of appointment are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Although Jim McKenna will be leaving the Company during the latter half of 2008, it has been three years since he last retired by rotation and it is therefore still necessary for him to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
45 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Communication with shareholders Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board gives a high priority to communication with There is a clear division of responsibility between shareholders and takes the opportunities afforded the running of the Board by the Chairman, and the by the AGM and meetings with institutional investors Chief Executive Officers responsibility for running the to ensure a mutual understanding of the Companys business.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring objectives and performance.
During the year, members the effectiveness of the Board and is Chairman of of the Board have listened to a number of key investors the Nominations Committee.
He also liaises with in order to understand their views fully.
These the Chief Executive Officer on strategic issues.
The exchanges led to the Nominations Committee and Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the overall the Board reconsidering the size and structure of the management of the Company and for leading the Board, and led to its restructuring during 2007.
Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM where developments in the business are explained and Details of the Executive Committee P P 3 38 8 shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions can be found on pages 38 to 39 of any of the Directors.
com provides Induction and Training access for all shareholders to information about the Upon appointment, all Directors undergo a Company, including results presentations and all press comprehensive induction programme, tailored to their releases.
Financial reporting is presented in such a individual requirements.
The induction is arranged way as to provide a balanced and understandable by the Company Secretary and the Group HR assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The induction programme includes training The Board is made aware of shareholders views on Directors duties and responsibilities, Board through feedback from face-to-face meetings procedures and various governance-related issues, and presentations with institutional shareholders.
including procedures for dealing in LogicaCMG plc If shareholders or investors do not wish to follow shares.
In addition, they meet with the heads of all the the usual methods of communication through the major business units and receive appropriate ongoing Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial training and updates to improve their knowledge Officer, the Boards Senior Independent Director, Wim and skills to enable them to discharge their duties Dik, is available to meet with shareholders or investors effectively.
The Directors training requirements are and can be contacted through the Company Secretary.
As part of the induction Directors are regularly updated on shareholder and programme Directors also make a number of site visits.
market matters through internal briefings and the Members of individual Committees receive specific provision of external analysts reports.
The Companys training in connection with their duties, which includes Investor Relations department is dedicated to attendance at seminars and briefings by external facilitating communication with investors, both advisers where applicable.
Board Support llo og giic ca a.. c co om m iin nv five es stto orrs s Further information on The Company Secretary, through the Company Investor Relations can be Secretariat function, is responsible for providing found on the Companys administrative and logistical support to the Board.
The website Company Secretary also provides advice and support on governance, compliance and regulatory matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure is in place to enable Directors to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year, other than Martin Read who sought professional advice in respect of his pension.
The Remuneration Committee gave prior approval in respect of this advice.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
46 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Board Performance 2007 Audit Committee The Board is subject to an annual performance The composition of the Companys Audit Committee review which covers the effectiveness of the Board, and its terms of reference reflect the Combined Code its Committees and individual members and and the Smith Guidance.
takes into account factors such as composition, The Committee is authorised by the Board to expertise, information flows, roles, responsibilities investigate any activity within its terms of reference and procedures.
In 2007, we conducted a full review and to seek any information that it requires from any in line with this process.
Each Director completed a employee of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All comprehensive questionnaire, following which one-toemployees are directed to cooperate with any request one interviews were conducted by the Chairman with made by the Committee.
The Committee has the right each Director.
The information from the questionnaires to consult the Companys professional advisers or, if it and interviews were compiled into a report which was is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further presented to the Board early in 2008. independent professional advice at the Companys As part of this process, any director who has served expense in the furtherance of its duties.
The on the Board for a period in excess of six years is Committee believes that the skills, qualifications and subject to a particularly rigorous review.
commercial experience of its members are appropriate The performance of the Chairman was assessed for them to perform their duties in accordance with the by the Non-Executive Directors.
The process for terms of reference laid down by the Board.
this was led by the Senior Independent Director with The Audit Committee, which comprises all all Directors providing feedback on the Chairmans independent Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by performance.
The results were discussed with the Roger Payne and, for 2007, included Angela Knight, Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
George Loudon retired 1 November 2007, Wim Dik During 2007 Jim McKenna, acting Chief Executive and Wolfhart Hauser.
The Board considers Roger Officer held one-to-one meetings with each of the Payne to have recent and relevant financial experience Executive Directors to discuss their performance at the following his role as a former financial director of a end of 2007 and to set targets for the year ahead.
The Committee meets at Executive Director received a set of objectives for the least four times a year and any two members constitute coming year.
There are regular meetings between the Chairman The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the and the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the Committee itself meet with the external auditors in performance of the Company, together with any private at least four times a year.
The Chairman, matters of relevance or concern at that time, where Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, appropriate action is taken to address the concerns Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit of the Directors.
and other appropriate specialist functional managers attend the scheduled meetings at the request of the Follow up from 2006 Board Evaluation Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Following the results of the 2006 Board evaluation meets with the Head of Internal Audit in private at least process, the actions implemented in 2007 included: four times a year.
the review of the Boards succession plans and their implementation the level of communication between the Chairman and individual Directors.
This was increased to facilitate faster feedback and decision making within the Board the review of succession planning at senior management level.
This led to the Groups HR Director presenting a leadership development plan to the Board.
47 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Committee the reports and updates from the Companys reviews, challenges and approves, as the case may internal audit and quality assurance functions.
be, presentations or reports from senior management, The internal audit and quality assurance plans for consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
These reports During the year, the Committee had a satisfactory and updates additionally covered the Companys level of dialogue with the Companys auditors.
During management of its internal controls the year, the Committee specifically considered, the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP to undertake amongst other things, the following matters: an independent review of the effectiveness of the performance of its independent auditor, the Internal Audit function.
A number of  LLP PwC including recommendations were made following the qualifications, expertise and resource, effectiveness, review which will be implemented during the objectivity and independence, and recommended course of 2008 to the Board their re-election as the Companys the reports from the Companys Risk Management independent auditors for 2007 Committee RMC regarding the Companys risk the review and approval of PwCs 2007 proposed fee management policy and programme of work.
The Committee subsequently Committee and the Board also received reports received and considered PwCs report, which concerning specific key risks identified by the RMC.
summarised the conclusions from their 2006 audit.
In addition, the impact of changing legislation and This report included feedback from PwC on the regulation, were considered and where necessary, status of the Companys control environment and appropriate actions were taken managements responsiveness to audit results the review of the financial position of the Companys the appropriateness of the Companys accounting defined benefit pension schemes policies were also reviewed and approved the implementation of a policy in respect of the the review and approval of the Companys ongoing recommended investigation of potential actual fraud policy for using PwC for non-audit work.
This policy the annual review of the Companys tax and treasury is designed to ensure PwCs independence and that policies in accordance with its terms of reference.
the Company complies with best practice Both policies were approved the review of the 2006 full-year preliminary and 2007 an extensive goodwill evaluation covering the interim announcements Groups activities which supported the carrying the review of the Companys 2006 Annual report and value thereof with no impairment deemed necessary accounts, in particular the financial overview, report a review of the processes in respect of the costing, of the Directors, Financial statements including pricing and controls on large, long term contracts, notes to the accounts and relevant sections of following a profits warning in May 2007, involving the Corporate Governance report.
These were both executive management and the Companys recommended for approval to the Board external auditors PwC.
As a consequence of this, the search process for a new Head of Internal Audit additional controls and closer monitoring of such following the move of the incumbent to a financial controls were put in place role and the interim management arrangements of at each Audit Committee meeting, the Committee the function pending the recruitment of a new Head reviews any matters, as required, relating to of Internal Audit a number of standing items including major acquisitions divestments: progress concerning actions taken in response to the Committees representations: relevant legal, reporting practices and compliance developments, reports filed under the Companys confidential disclosure policy: compliance with the Companys code of ethical conduct, including whistleblowing, and any other special investigations falling under the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
48 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information llo og giic ca a.. c co om m g go ov five errn na an nc ce e The full Terms of The key elements of the control system in Reference for the Audit operation are: Committee are available a highly structured, objectives-driven approach on the Company website to fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of or can be obtained from sustained profitability and growth.
The objectives the Company Secretary of the Group are developed by the Executive Committee and approved by the Board, which Internal control addresses revenue and associated costs and The Annual report provides information on, and an necessary investment.
This plan then forms the assessment of, the Companys business, operations, basis of annual revenue growth and profit targets financial position and prospects.
for the operating units in the Group The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its internal control systems for the accounting year and the research and development and capital investment the period to the approval of the Financial statements programmes which are subject to a formal review on 20 March 2008.
Except as specifically mentioned in procedure requiring that rigorous qualification the previous section, no significant weaknesses were criteria be met prior to each instance of material noted.
Procedures have been established to ensure investment.
Evaluation and post-investment that the Group can comply with guidance on internal appraisals are performed by reference to detailed controls issued by the Turnbull Committee and those business plans included in the Combined Code.
the monitoring regime established by the Board, The review of the Groups system of internal control through which the performance indicators derived covered all material controls, including financial, from the strategic and annual plans are regularly operational and compliance controls and risk interrogated.
This ensures that events which pose management systems and is in accordance with the significant risk to the attainment of the Groups Turnbull guidance and the Combined Code.
Action objectives or significant control lapses are has been taken to ensure that the Unilog and WM-data communicated through a process of rapid escalation businesses have suitable internal controls in place, to senior management.
Unit performance is which are consistent with the UK requirements.
evaluated on a monthly basis, and this evaluation The Companys approach to internal control is based includes the addressing of identified control on the underlying principle of line managements weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of accountability for risk and control management.
previously recommended corrective actions The Company has a risk-based approach to internal control, and management are responsible for business unit management throughout the Group implementing, operating and monitoring the system.
and specific corporate functional managers are No system of internal control can completely eliminate required to complete a full assessment of controls the risk of failure to achieve business objectives annually.
With the completion of this process, or provide absolute assurance against material management can identify and quantify the risks that misstatement or loss.
However, we are satisfied face their businesses and functions.
This process that we have the right procedures in place to guard also provides assurance as to risk and internal against relevant risks.
control management, financial controls and reporting, project control, treasury management and information management.
49 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Risk management External auditors The Board recognises the need to understand and The external auditors provide a supplementary, control the variety of risks to which the Company is independent perspective on the overall integrity of exposed.
In order to address these challenges, the those areas of the internal control system which they Board through the Audit Committee oversees the assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are Risk Management Committee RMC chaired by the reported regularly to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Chief Financial Officer.
Through the Audit Committee Committee assesses the evidence provided to them and the RMC the Board exercises a framework for and seeks to ensure that the risk management process managing risk within the Group.
Five practice panels adequately addresses all of the major risks to the support the RMC and are responsible for the areas of Group.
To ensure auditor objectivity and independence delivery, operations, finance, human resources, and there is a stringent process in place to approve nonsales and marketing.
In conjunction with these panels, audit work.
Proposed work must be approved by the RMC is responsible for the regular evaluation of the Chief Financial Officer before being passed generic and specific risks within the business and the to the Audit Committee for approval.
Copies of all implementation of mitigation plans to address them.
internal audit reports are automatically copied to The risk process identifies, evaluates and manages external auditors to ensure communication is both significant risks faced by the Group.
Risks are comprehensive and transparent.
assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups business objectives and according to Details regarding the remuneration P P 1 11 13 3 current market and economic issues.
The continuous of the external auditors for monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the both audit and non-audit work responsibility of the Board and line management can be found on page 113 respectively.
The risk process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Going concern report.
The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that Clearly defined delegation of responsibilities and the Company and the Group have adequate resources authorisation levels contribute to a comprehensive to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable system which exists for controlling these risks and future, and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the ensuring they are adequately addressed.
Core going concern basis in preparing the Financial statements.
operating procedures common to all areas of the Group are clearly documented in Cortex see Nominations Committee page 27.
The internal audit and quality assurance The Nominations Committee, which comprises a functions perform regular audits and are part of line majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, managements risk management responsibilities.
was chaired by Cor Stutterheim until his retirement on Regular internal control reviews are presented to the 1 November 2007, when he was succeeded by David Audit Committee on at least a six-monthly basis.
Its members also include Roger Payne and Wim Committee papers, including internal control reviews, Dik.
Helmut Mamsch, Martin Read, Cor Stutterheim are circulated to all Board members.
and George Loudon all left the Committee during 2007 upon their retirement from the Board.
In early 2008 The key risks and measures to Andy Green and Nol Harwerth joined the Committee.
P P 5 54 4 mitigate risks identified by the Other Directors are entitled to attend at the invitation of Board are listed on pages 54 to 55 the Nominations Committee.
The Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Conclusions from the Groups risk management represented on the Board and its committees and activities are taken into account when evaluating and makes recommendations to the Board concerning managing the Companys KPIs, which are detailed any adjustments deemed to be appropriate.
in the Business review on page 29.
Under its terms of reference the Committee oversees the search and selection process for new Directors and aims to do so as recommended by the Combined Code.
The Committee can engage external independent professional advisers to assist when seeking potential Board members.
A shortlist of candidates will normally be established and selected candidates will be interviewed and recommended for consideration by the Board.
The Committee was convened on three scheduled occasions during 2007.
50 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information The attendance schedule for The Committees key role is to determine the P P 5 52 2 Board and Committee meetings Companys senior executive remuneration policy and can be found on page 52 levels of remuneration for the Companys Executive Committee, the higher paid senior management, Other meetings were convened on an ad hoc basis Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee takes into consideration the pay During 2007 the Committee undertook a review of and conditions of employment for employees when the succession planning for the Board, which also took considering Executives remuneration.
into consideration the balance between independent and non-independent Directors.
The Nominations Details of the Committees main P P 5 56 6 Committee is also responsible for overseeing the functions and its remuneration Board appraisal process.
policies for Directors and The Committee meets at least twice a year and any senior management are set two Committee members constitute a quorum.
out on pages 56 to 58 llo og giic ca a.. c co om m g go ov five errn na an nc ce e The full Terms of The Chief Executive Officer and the HR Director Reference of the non-Board member attend the Committee meetings Nominations Committee at the invitation of the Committee.
are available on the The Committee routinely meets at least four times Companys website or a year and any two Committee members constitute can be obtained from the a quorum.
Company Secretary llo og giic ca a.. c co om m g go ov five errn na an nc ce e The full Terms of Remuneration Committee Reference of the The Companys Remuneration Committee is Remuneration Committee comprised of at least three independent Non-Executive are available on the Directors in accordance with the recommendations of Companys website or the Combined Code.
can be obtained from the Angela Knight chaired the Remuneration Committee Company Secretary until 5 November 2007 when Nol Harwerth assumed the chairmanship.
Angela remained as a member of the Committee to ensure a smooth handover to Nol prior to Angelas retirement at the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
Its other members are currently Wolfhart Hauser and David Tyler.
Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon both retired from the Committee when they left the Board on 24 May 2007 and 1 November 2007 respectively.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
The Committee has the right to appoint independent advisers and, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of its duties.
For the year reported, Kepler Associates were the principal independent advisers to the Committee.
The Committee believes that the skills, qualifications and commercial experience of its members are appropriate for them to perform their duties in accordance with the terms of reference laid down by the Board.
51 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Board attendance External appointments The table below shows the attendance of Directors Executive Directors are normally permitted by the at scheduled meetings of the Board and Audit, Company to accept and maintain one non-executive Remuneration and Nominations Committees appointment at any one time.
Fees earned by Executive during 2007.
Directors are retained by the relevant Director, Directors are normally provided with the agenda which reflects the personal risk assumed in such and papers for Board and Committee meetings one appointments.
This remuneration is fully disclosed in week prior to the meetings.
Directors who are unable the relevant Companys Annual report and accounts.
to attend a meeting provide feedback to the Chairman, Chairman of the Committee or the Company Secretary See biographical details of the P P 3 36 6 and their comments are then communicated at the Directors on pages 36 to 37 meeting.
Board attendance at scheduled meetings during 2007 Board Audit Remuneration Nominations meetings Committee Committee Committee Member Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible David Tyler 2 C 2 0 C 0 Member Seamus Keating 6 6 Non-member Jim McKenna 6 6 Martin Read 5 5 2 2 C Denotes Chairman of Crister Stjernfelt 6 6 the Board or Wim Dik 6 6 6 6 3 3 Committee Didier Herrmann 4 4 Angela Knight 6 6 6 6 5 C 5 George Loudon 5 6 4 5 3 5 3 3 Helmut Mamsch 2 3 2 3 1 2 Roger Payne 6 6 6 C 6 1 1 Grard Philippot 5 6 Cor Stutterheim 6 C 6 3 C 3 Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 5 6 5 5 Nol Harwerth 6 6 5 C 5 Board Changes David Tyler was appointed to the Board with effect from 18 July 2007 and became Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2007 and Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 17 November 2007.
He became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 5 November 2007.
Helmut Mamsch resigned from the Board on 24 May 2007.
Martin Read resigned from the Board on 21 September 2007.
Didier Herrmann was removed from the Board on 24 July 2007.
George Loudon and Cor Stutterheim resigned from the Board on 1 November 2007.
Cor Stutterheim also resigned as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 1 November 2007.
Roger Payne was appointed to the Nominations Committee with effect from 4 June 2007.
Angela Knight resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 5 November 2007 when Nol Harwerth took over the chairmanship.
52 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Statement of Directors responsibilities in The Directors confirm that they have complied with respect of the Annual report, the Report of the the above requirements in preparing the Financial Remuneration Committee and the Financial statements.
statements The Directors are responsible for keeping proper The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual accounting records that disclose with reasonable report, the report of the Remuneration Committee accuracy at any time the financial position of the and the Group and the Parent Company Financial Company and the Group and to enable them to statements in accordance with applicable law and ensure that the Group Financial statements comply regulations.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Company law requires the Directors to prepare Regulation and that the parent companys Financial financial statements for each financial year.
Under that statements and the report of the Remuneration law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial Committee comply with the Companies Act 1985. statements in accordance with International Financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking European Union, and the Parent Company Financial reasonable steps for the prevention and detection statements and the report of the Remuneration of fraud and other irregularities.
Committee in accordance with applicable law and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance United Kingdom Accounting Standards United and integrity of the corporate and financial information Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
included on the Companys website.
Legislation in In preparing the Group Financial statements, the the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Directors have also elected to comply with the IFRSs, dissemination of Financial statements may differ from issued by the International Accounting Standards legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group and Parent Company Financial statements are required by law to give a true Annual General Meeting and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and All Directors are expected to attend the AGM to answer the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that shareholders questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, period.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are In preparing those Financial statements, the present at the AGM to answer any questions on the Directors are required to: responsibilities and activities of their Committees.
All Directors attended the 2007 AGM.
To ensure the views select suitable accounting policies and then apply of all shareholders are reflected proportionately, it is them consistently the Companys policy for all resolutions to be voted make judgements and estimates that are reasonable on a poll.
and prudent state whether the Group Financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB, and with regard to the Parent Companys Financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting By order of the Board Standards have been followed, subject to any P Weaver FCIS material departures disclosed and explained in Company Secretary the Financial statements.
