2007 Annual Report Lonmin Plc Nomination Committee Report 39 for the year ended 30 September 2007 Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006.
These are available from the Company and are displayed on its website under Our business Executive Management.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To ensure a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: In consultation with the Chairman, recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: To ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulation.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Committee comprises Roger Phillimore Chairman, Sir John Craven, Peter Godsoe and, from 21 September 2007, Michael Hartnall.
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee is two members.
All four members are non-executive Directors whom the Board considers to be wholly independent.
Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the Committee members are able to offer a balanced view on the Committees business.
Each member receives an annual fee for serving as a member or chairman of the Committee.
In view of the increasing duties and responsibilities associated with membership of this Committee, the Board resolved to increase the annual membership fee from 5,000 to 7,500, and the annual chairmanship fee from 7,500 to 12,500, with effect from 1 January 2007.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 21 and a detailed breakdown is also provided on page 21.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the Chief Executive.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires to fulfil its duties.
Activities of the Nomination Committee All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates for the Committees consideration.
There were three new appointments to the Board during the year, being Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer, David Munro and Jim Sutcliffe both being independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of Director during time in office meetings attended Sir John Craven 6 5 Peter Godsoe 6 6 1 Michael Hartnall Nil Nil Roger Phillimore 6 6 1 From 21 September 2007 At a meeting in November 2006, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the non-executive Directors seeking reappointment at the Companys 2007 AGM.
Peter Godsoe and Roger Phillimore neither of whom played any part in the discussions concerning themselves were deemed to be able, committed and effective in their roles.
The Committee also reviewed its report to be contained in the 2006 Annual Report and revised terms of reference, all of which it agreed to recommend to the Board.
The Committee also assessed its effectiveness and, in his absence, that of the Chairman of the Committee.
The views expressed were summarised to the Board and there were no matters arising which the Committee or the Board felt necessitated change.
In January 2007, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Board that Karen fide Segundo be invited to join the Safety and Sustainability Committee.
The remainder of the meetings were concerned with the recruitment of new executive and non-executive Directors as noted at the start of this report.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 November 2007.
