24 Corporate Governance Statement Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES Information is normally provided to all Board The Board considers that it This statement describes how the Group applies members in the week prior to a Board meeting complies with the Combined the principles contained within the 2003 FRC to enable the Directors to consider the issues Combined Code the Code appended to the for discussion and to request clarification or Code and corporate Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board regularly reviews the type and amount of information governance best practice.
The Board considers that it currently complies provided.
The Board plans to meet eight times a with the Code.
The Board continues to be proyear and, in addition, has a further meeting for active in reviewing its practices and effectiveness.
consideration of strategic issues facing the DIRECTORS Group.
The Board also holds additional meetings At 1 March 2007, the Board consisted of the to fulfil the ongoing requirements of the business Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors and two during the year, as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Board All Directors have access to the advice of the is Alan Jackson who joined the Board on Company Secretary, who is responsible to the 5 December 2006.
Richard Brooke is the Senior Board for ensuring that procedures are followed.
David The appointment and removal of the Company Longbottoms retirement from the Board was Secretary is reserved for the consideration of the announced on 13 January 2007 and he retired Board as a whole.
In addition, there is an agreed from the Board on 13 April 2007.
Debbie Hewitt procedure for seeking independent professional joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on advice at the Groups expense.
During the year 14 February 2007 and John Jackson joined the the Board appointed Tim OGorman as Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March Company Secretary.
He joins the business from 2007.
All Non-Executive Directors, except the The Carphone Warehouse Group plc where he Chairman, are considered independent directors, was Group Commercial Counsel.
according to the terms of the Code.
Alan Jackson, the Chairman, is not deemed independent due to On appointment to the Board, every Director is his remuneration arrangements.
Stephen Thomas provided with opportunities for appropriate is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the training to enable them to discharge their duties executive leadership and co-ordination of the as a Director.
It is the intention of the Group to Groups business activities.
Brendan McLoughlin create opportunities for the Senior Independent retired from the Board on 30 November 2006.
Director and Non-Executive Directors to meet The terms of these arrangements are set out in with significant shareholders, should this be the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 35 of requested by those shareholders.
The structure of the Board provides During the year ended 1 March 2007, the Nona balance whereby no individual or small group Executive Directors met without the Chairman can dominate the Boards decision-making.
and provided feedback to the Chairman following Details of the Chairmans other directorships are that meeting.
The Chairman has also provided disclosed in the Board of Directors information.
feedback to the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups Board members are appointed by the Board on strategic direction, the establishment of Group the recommendation of the Nominations policies and internal controls and the monitoring Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman of operational performance.
It meets regularly and consists of the Non-Executive Directors, throughout the year and, in addition to the although the Chief Executive is invited to routine reporting of financial and operational meetings, as appropriate.
issues, reviews each of the trading divisions and The Groups Articles of Association provide that key functions in detail, including regular one-third or the number nearest to but not departmental functional reviews.
exceeding one-third of the Directors shall retire The Board has a schedule of matters specifically from office by rotation.
Furthermore, Article 87 reserved to it for decision and delegates certain of the Articles of Association requires a Director powers to the Board Committees and to the to stand for re-election if they were not Executive Directors collectively and individually.
appointed or reappointed at either of the last The schedule of reserved matters is periodically two Annual General Meetings AGM.
reviewed by the Board and presently includes Richard Brooke is therefore retiring by rotation management of shareholder communication, and is offering himself for re-election at the annual budgets, strategic plans, approval of major forthcoming AGM.
capital expenditure in excess of 1.0m and significant financing.
Luminar plc 25 Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report 2007 Alan Jackson, Debbie Hewitt and John Jackson I the Board has procedures in place for full I Developing and maintaining effective were all appointed by the Board during the year agreement for all significant announcements to organisational structure: ended 1 March 2007 and are therefore obliged the City.
I Recruiting and managing senior executives and under the Articles of Association to seek reCHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE managing their contract and performance election at the forthcoming AGM.
Under Article DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY issues subject to Remuneration Committee 94, these Directors are not to be taken into There is a clear division of responsibility between responsibilities : account in determining the number of Directors the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The I Ensuring effective staff policies, succession and who are to retire by rotation.
division is in writing as follows: planning: The Board has concluded a review of its The Chairman is responsible for: I Maintaining primary relationships with effectiveness.
The conclusions of the review have I Managing the effectiveness of the Board, shareholders, possible investors and providers been discussed by the Board as a whole and will ensuring information flows, performance of debt capital: be kept under review during the forthcoming year.
monitoring and facilitating contributions from I External and internal communications in Subject to re-election at the first AGM after Non-Executive Directors: liaison with the Chairman on major issues : which they are appointed, all Non-Executive I Liaising with the Chief Executive and providing Directors are appointed initially for a three year I Implementation and monitoring of compliance support, a sounding board, advice and term and, after review, will normally be with Board policies: and feedback: proposed for a further three year term.
The I Reliable reporting of the above to the Board.
Group will take into account the balance of skills I Supporting the strategic process and and experience on the Board, and their BOARD COMMITTEES encouraging and supporting the Chief contribution and level of independence when In accordance with the Combined Code and Executive with the development of strategy: considering whether to extend their corporate governance best practice, the Board I Ensuring that there are effective processes for appointment beyond the initial term.
In has established a number of committees.
All of maintaining relations with investors and, from exceptional circumstances, the Board may ask a the committees have written terms of reference, time to time, attending investor meetings Non-Executive Director to remain for a further approved by the Board.
when appropriate or if requested: term.
The newly appointed Non-Executive The Board met 17 times last year and the Directors contracts are terminable on three I Providing feedback to Non-Executive attendance of the Directors at the Board and months notice on either side.
The appointment Directors and encouraging their development committee meetings, where appropriate, are of the Chairman and the existing Non-Executive and induction: shown overleaf: Directors contracts are terminable on six I Chairing the general meetings and Board months notice on either side.
meetings and agreeing Board agendas: The Board takes significant measures to ensure I Managing Chief Executive contract issues and that all Board members are kept aware of both appraisal, making recommendations to the the views of major shareholders and changes in Remuneration Committee on the Chief the major shareholdings of the Group.
This is Executives remuneration and proposals for achieved in a variety of ways, including: Executive Director and senior executive I full feedback of shareholder reviews are remuneration: passed to the Chairman, Chief Executive and I Maintaining relations with Executive Directors Finance Director who are primarily charged and senior managers: with meeting shareholders: I Supporting Group communications on major I the Board receives regular feedback from the issues and fulfilling an ambassadorial role Groups stockbrokers: when necessary: and I changes in current shareholding are also I Chairing the Nominations Committee and presented to the Board prompting discussions leading the recruitment of the Chief Executive on shareholder issues: and Non-Executive Directors.
I following interim and full year announcements The Chief Executive is responsible for: the Board is provided with a full copy of analysts reports and feedback from analysts I Ensuring effective planning and performance and shareholders on a no-names basis: measurement: I significant shareholder movements are notified I Maintaining and enforcing effective to the Board by the Company Secretary on an management controls, regulatory controls and ad hoc basis: risk management: I all Directors are invited to analysts briefings I Developing and maintaining effective and have access, if required, to the Groups performance management: stockbrokers: and 26 Corporate Governance Statement Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement continued Number of meetings Audit Remuneration Nominations in the year Board Committee Committee Committee Keith Hamill 15 221 Alan Jackson 41 Stephen Thomas 17 31 Nick Beighton 16 3 Brendan McLoughlin 8 Debbie Hewitt 1 John Jackson Martin Gatto 16 312 Richard Brooke 17 122 David Longbottom 13 32 Including conference calls and quorum Board meetings.
Joined the Board on 5 December 2006.
Joined the Board on 14 February 2007.
Joined the Board on 1 March 2007.
Resigned from the Board on 5 December 2006.
Resigned from the Board on 30 November 2006.
Resigned from the Board on 13 April 2007.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the work was carefully evaluated by the Audit is independent of line management and intends Chairman, met once in the year ended Committee.
Non-audit work was performed by to undertake further reviews to increase 1 March 2007. separate teams which were segregated to the awareness of the process including training for degree required to achieve the necessary managers who may have to deal with whistleAUDIT COMMITTEE independence and to maintain the auditors blowing issues.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Martin Gatto objectivity.
The Audit Committee views the and also comprised during the financial year of The terms of reference for the Audit Committee independence and objectivity of the Groups Richard Brooke and David Longbottom.
With are available from the Company Secretary.
auditors as essential and ensures that PwC are the retirement of the latter, Debbie Hewitt and The external auditors may attend all meetings of not instructed on any issue, which would John Jackson joined the Audit Committee with the Audit Committee and have direct access to prejudice this.
To ensure that this occurs, the effect from 14 February 2007 and 1 March 2007 the Audit Committee and its Chairman at all Group operates a policy under which any nonrespectively.
The terms of reference for the times.
audit work is subject to competitive tender and if Audit Committee provide that the Chairman is such work has a value in excess of 50,000, it is REMUNERATION COMMITTEE invited to attend all meetings and the Chief referred to the Audit Committee for approval.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Executive and Finance Director are invited to The Audit Committee obtains written Debbie Hewitt following the resignation of attend meetings, as appropriate.
confirmation on at least an annual basis of the David Longbottom as Chairman of the The Committee meets during the year and independence of the external auditors.
Committee and consists of all the Nonreports to the Board on all matters relating to Executive Directors, except the Chairman.
The The Audit Committee also reviews the possible the regulatory and accounting requirements that Chairman is invited to attend all meetings.
The risks facing the Group, the risk management may affect the Group, together with the financial Remuneration Report is set out on pages 28 to function and internal controls.
The latter are reporting and internal control procedures 35 of this Report.
dealt with in greater detail below.
The Group has including the annual and interim financial appointed a Head of Business Risk, Mark Wyatt, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE statements.
In addition, the Audit Committee who reports to the Finance Director and to the The Nominations Committee is chaired by Alan ensures that an objective and professional Audit Committee and who is responsible for Jackson following the resignation of Keith relationship is maintained with the external ensuring the management of this process across Hamill and also consists of all the Nonauditors, with particular regard to the nature and the range of the Groups activities.
The Head of Executive Directors.
It monitors and reviews the extent of any non-audit functions they provide.
Business Risk reports at least twice a year to the membership of and succession to the Board of During the year ended 1 March 2007, the Audit Committee regarding risk and internal Directors.
It makes recommendations to the Groups external auditors, control matters, and the full Board reviews risk Board, inter alia, on the identification and  LLP PwC, provided and internal controls annually.
recruitment of potential Executive and Nonadvice to the Group, including advice in relation Executive Directors.
The Nominations Steps have been taken to ensure that there is an to the issue of the circular in respect of the sale Committee met twice in the year ended opportunity for any employee in confidence, to of the Entertainment Division and related tax 1 March 2007.
The Nominations Committee raise concerns with management about possible and VAT advice.
The fees paid to PwC for nonmet once in relation to the appointment of a impropriety in financial or other matters.
The audit services were 0.7m 2006: 0.9m new Chairman and once in relation to the Group has established an internal hotline, which excluding VAT.
The use of PwC for non-audit Luminar plc 27 Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report 2007 appointment of Debbie Hewitt and John Jackson.
The annual risk based internal programme is Legislative reform The Nominations Committee used external compiled using the risk register.
I The Group carries out reviews to assess the impact of legislative and regulatory change.
search and selection consultants to assist in this One-to-one meetings are held frequently with During the year, the Group continued to process.
risk owners to discuss key risk issues and a review its compliance with a wide range of schedule of liaison meetings has been established OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE new legislation, both in force and coming into with PwC to discuss risk from the perspective of Operating Committee force, ranging from disability discrimination to the external auditors.
Luminar Leisure Limited provides support the smoking ban now introduced in Scotland services to the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The The effectiveness of the internal control system and Wales as from 1 April 2007 and to be Operating Committee of Luminar Leisure has been reviewed by the Board throughout the introduced in England on 1 July 2007 to new Limited consists of the two Executive Directors year.
The ongoing process for identification, noise regulations to be introduced in 2008. of Luminar plc Stephen Thomas and Nick evaluation and management of significant risk Training Beighton, the Groups senior operator: David accords with The Turnbull Guidance Guidance I Specific training is provided to all employees Haimes Managing Director of Operations, and on Internal Control.
to enable them to understand and manage risk support centre administrative function Directors: Assurance in relation to the design, operation in the Groups units.
These procedures are all Liz Purdy Human Resources and Tim and effectiveness of internal controls across the embodied in awards available to employees OGorman Group Legal Services.
Groups activities and functions is provided on satisfactory completion of the training This Committee exercises the day-to-day through a mix of mechanisms and processes, programme.
management function of the Group.
The which include: Finance Operating Committee meets monthly and Internal audit I The Finance Director provides regular financial considers amongst its standing agenda items: I The Group has an internal audit function.
information to the Board, which includes key reviewing capital expenditure: revenue Internal audit carry out audits to assess the performance indicators.
expenditure not authorised by the Executive adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls Directors within their individual authority levels: I Regular performance review meetings are held over key operational and financial risks regular reports from the Directors and a regular where management discusses business throughout the business.
The internal audit review of the strategic aims of the Group.
performance, risks to performance and internal function is headed by the Head of Business Risk Additionally, the Committee meets weekly to control issues with Executive Directors.
who is responsible to the Finance Director but review trading performance and day-to-day has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Public liability issues.
Following the Audit I The Group continues to monitor and INTERNAL CONTROL Committees recent review of the effectiveness proactively manage its public liability exposure As stated above, the Board is responsible for the of internal audit, a full reassessment of the remit, both by the use of the Lite Patrol system ongoing process of identifying and evaluating the scope and resources of internal audit is being mentioned above and use of best practice in significant risks faced by the Group, both financial undertaken with a view to ensuring that internal its units regarding staff training and use of its and non-financial.
This responsibility includes audit is in compliance with best practice.
clearly determining the control environment and Health and safety I The Group maintains appropriate insurance to reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a I Each unit is visited by Health and Safety cover risks, where appropriate.
system can provide only reasonable and not advisers.
In addition, to ensure compliance absolute assurance against material misstatement Licensing with the Groups procedures contained in the or loss.
I The Group undertakes regular ring rounds of Groups Fire, Health and Safety and Food all Councils and police divisions covering the Approximately every two months a register of manuals, the Health and Safety team carry out areas in which it operates and liaises key risks is submitted to the Operating audits of compliance and unit compliance extensively with other stakeholders including Committee of Luminar Leisure Limited for performance is benchmarked against the local residents associations and industry approval and discussion.
The Operating Groups units as a whole.
bodies to ensure that any issues arising from Committee is responsible for the day-to-day I The Health and Safety function is responsible the operation of its units are identified.
This management of risks within the Group.
The for maintaining the Groups Lite Patrol process is supported by the use of incident register covers all material controls including system.
Lite Patrol is a computerised system, reports generated by unit management, which financial, operational and compliance controls.
which acts as an internal control, enables are sent to appropriate area managers, These discussions are minuted.
The discussions monitoring of activity and ensures that management and executives.
are facilitated by the Head of Business Risk who operational standards are as high as possible highlights areas of concern within the register.
I The Group makes extensive use of CCTV and during trading hours within the Groups units.
The Operating Committee is asked to propose typically keeps records of CCTV coverage for The system proves due-diligence where proof any amendments to the register that it deems one month.
of inspection of key areas is provided by appropriate, but also to confirm that it is content scanning discs mounted in various parts of the that the register presents a true and fair view of unit, usually by floor supervision.
the key risks facing the business, and associated controls.
Actions relating to certain risks are recorded as necessary.
Key issues identified as a result of the new risk based internal audit process are also identified within the paper.
