Governance Corporate governance Combined Code compliance Alexander, a non-executive director resigned Since January 2007, three executive Anglo American is committed to the highest from the Board on 13 April and 26 October directors and one non-executive director have standards of corporate governance the way in 2007 respectively.
David Hathorn resigned resigned or retired and one executive director which the Company is directed and controlled from the Board after the Mondi demerger on has been appointed.
The Company considers and complied fully with the Combined Code on 3 July 2007 and Bobby Godsell has informed the that its programme of progressively refreshing Corporate Governance June 2006 the Code Company he wishes to retire at the conclusion the composition of the Board remains effective.
throughout the year under review.
The Board has proposed Sir CK Chow for Directors training Role of the Board election as a director at the AGM.
Sir CKs Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of The Board of directors is responsible to biographical details are set out in the Directors expertise as well as significant experience in shareholders for the performance of the Report on page 61. strategic, financial, commercial and mining Company.
Its role includes the establishment, Ren Mdori and Karel van Miert will be activities.
Training and briefings are also review and monitoring of strategic objectives, proposed for re-election at the AGM.
Ren available to all directors on appointment and approval of major acquisitions, disposals and Mdori is the finance director of Anglo American, subsequently, as necessary, taking into account capital expenditure and overseeing the Groups and serves as a member of CeCom and ExCo as existing qualifications and experience.
Directors systems of internal control, governance and risk well as the Investment Committee and Karel also have access to management, and to the management.
A schedule of matters reserved van Miert is a member of the Audit and advice of the Company Secretary.
Furthermore, for the Boards decision details key aspects of Nomination Committees.
Chris Fay and Sir Rob all directors are entitled to seek independent the Companys affairs that the Board does not Margetts will again be proposed for re-election professional advice concerning the affairs of delegate including, among other things, at the AGM.
Each has served three three-year Anglo American at its expense, although no approval of business plans and budgets, material terms as an independent non-executive director, such advice was sought during 2007. expenditure and alterations to share capital.
having been first appointed during 1999, and Presentations are made to the Board by hence their nomination for re-election has been business management on the activities Board composition and directors subject to particularly rigorous review.
Directors undertake regular independence chairs the Safety and Sustainable Development visits to operations and projects and, in 2007, The Board is chaired by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
Committee and serves as a member of the Audit operations in Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, The chairman is responsible for leading the and Remuneration Committees.
Sir Rob Margetts China, Colombia, Oman, South Africa, Board and for its effectiveness.
Cynthia Carroll is the senior independent non-executive Venezuela and the US were visited.
In addition, is the chief executive and is responsible for the director, chairs the Remuneration Committee during the year directors attended courses execution of strategy and the day-to-day and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
seminars on risk management, remuneration, management of the Group, supported by the The Board values their wide experience and corporate responsibility, financial reporting Chief Executives Committee CeCom and the contributions to its proceedings, and is satisfied and pensions.
Executive Committee ExCo, both of which she that they both remain remain robustly chairs.
Sir Rob Margetts will be succeeded as independent.
the senior independent non-executive director by David Challen on 15 April 2008.
The Board has a strong independent element and currently comprises, in addition Board and Committee meetings frequency and attendance to the chairman, two executive and nine Independent Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination non-executive directors, seven of whom are in terms seven three four four three of Code?
meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings independent according to the definition contained in the Code.
The independent Sir Mark Moody-Stuart n a All n a All All All 1 1 directors are indicated within the table on this A J Trahar No 3 n a 1 n a n a 1 page, and full biographical details for each C B Carroll No All n a 2 n a n a director are given on pages 58 and 59.
The 1 D A Hathorn No 3 n a n a n a n a letters of appointment of the non-executive R Mdori No All n a n a n a n a directors are available for inspection at the 1 S R Thompson No 2 n a n a n a n a registered office of the Company.
1 1 R C Alexander Yes 5 n a 2 n a n a The Company is conscious of the need to D J Challen Yes All All n a All n a maintain an appropriate mix of skills and C E Fay Yes All All All All n a experience on the Board, and to progressively R M Godsell No 6 n a All n a n a refresh its composition over time.
Cynthia Sir Rob Margetts Yes All n a n a All All Carroll was appointed to the Board as an K A L M Van Miert Yes All 2 n a n a All executive director on 15 January 2007 and N F Oppenheimer No All n a n a n a All succeeded Tony Trahar as chief executive on 1 March 2007.
Tony Trahar retired from the F T M Phaswana Yes All 2 n a n a All Board at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
M Ramphele Yes 6 n a 3 n a All Simon Thompson, an executive and Ralph P Woicke Yes All All 2 n a All 1 Meetings attended prior to retirement or since appointment.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 65 Governance Corporate governance continued Board effectiveness matters, and ensuring their progressive governance to ensure the Group continues to A formal evaluation of the performance of the implementation throughout the Group.
apply high and appropriate standards.
Board, its committees and individual directors is The S&SD Committee normally meets three In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring carried out annually by means of detailed or four times each year, including a visit to an the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, questionnaires and interviews.
The results of operation, and business unit heads are invited the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting the most recent evaluation were collated and to attend Committee meetings.
Each business principles, policies and practices adopted in the analysed by the Company Secretary and unit head makes a safety and sustainable preparation of public financial information and presented to the Board.
The aim is to ensure development presentation to the Committee.
has examined documentation relating to the continuous improvement in the functioning of A separate Report to Society 2007 will be Annual Report, Interim Report, preliminary the Board.
The analysis in respect of 2007 published in April.
This report focuses on the announcements and related public reports.
The confirmed that the Board and its committees safety, sustainable development, health and clarity of disclosures included in the financial were functioning appropriately.
As a result of environmental performance of the Groups statements was reviewed by the Audit the evaluation, certain changes to committee managed operations, their performance with Committee, as was the basis for significant membership are under consideration and regard to the Companys Good Citizenship estimates and judgements.
In assessing the changes to the Board meeting process and principles and the operational dimensions of accounting treatment of major transactions open timetable have already been implemented.
to different approaches, the Committee As in past years, the evaluation process also The S&SD Committee presently comprises: considered written reports by management and included a review, chaired by the senior Chris Fay chairman, Cynthia Carroll, Bobby the external auditors.
The Committees independent non-executive director without Godsell, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Mamphela recommendations are submitted to the Board the chairman present, of the performance of Ramphele, Tony Redman and Peter Woicke.
It is the Boards current intention The chief financial officers of all operations to engage an external reviewer for the Board Nomination Committee have provided confirmation, on a six-monthly effectiveness evaluation process from time The Nomination Committee makes basis, that financial and accounting control to time.
recommendations to the Board on the frameworks operate satisfactorily.
The Committee appointment of new executive and nonconsidered summaries of the significant risk and Committees of the Board executive directors, including making control issues arising from these reports.
The Subject to those matters reserved for its recommendations as to the composition of the Committee also received regular internal and decision, the Board delegates certain Board and its committees and the balance external audit reports on the results of audits at responsibilities to a number of standing between executive and non-executive directors.
Further information on risk committees the Audit, Remuneration, The Nomination Committee meets as and when management processes is provided in the internal Nomination and Safety & Sustainable required and engages external consultants to control disclosure statement on page 67.
The terms of identify appropriate candidates.
During 2007, reference for each of these committees are the services of Spencer Stuart were used by External audit published on the Companys website.
Anglo Americans policy on auditors The Board, via the Nomination Committee, independence, which came into effect on Remuneration Committee has taken steps to ensure that the Human 1 January 2003, is consistent with the ethical The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Resources function of the Group regularly standards published by the Auditing Practices establishing and developing the Groups general reviews and updates the succession plans of Board in December 2004. policy on executive and senior management directors and senior managers.
A key factor that may impair auditors remuneration and determining specific The Nomination Committee presently independence is a lack of control over non-audit remuneration packages for executive directors.
comprises: Fred Phaswana chairman, services provided by the external auditors.
In The directors remuneration report, setting Sir Rob Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, essence, the external auditors independence is out Anglo Americans policy on executive Nicky Oppenheimer, Mamphela Ramphele, deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a remuneration, is set out on pages 70 to 82 of Karel Van Miert and Peter Woicke.
In accordance service which: this Annual Report.
A resolution to approve the with the provisions of the Combined Code, the results in auditing of own work by the remuneration report will be proposed at the majority of members and the chairman of the auditors: forthcoming AGM.
Committee are independent non-executive results in the auditors acting as a manager The Remuneration Committee presently directors.
or employee of the Group: comprises: Sir Rob Margetts chairman, puts the auditors in the role of advocate for David Challen and Chris Fay, all of whom are Audit Committee the Group: or independent non-executive directors, and The primary role of the Audit Committee is to creates a mutuality of interest between the Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
ensure the integrity of financial reporting and auditors and the Group.
the audit process, and that a sound risk Safety & Sustainable Development management and internal control system is Anglo American addresses this issue through Committee S&SD maintained.
In pursuing these objectives, the three primary measures, namely: The S&SD Committee is responsible for Audit Committee oversees relations with the disclosure of the extent and nature of nondeveloping framework policies and guidelines for external auditors and reviews the effectiveness audit services: the management of sustainable development of the internal audit function.
The Committee the prohibition of selected services: and issues, including safety, health and environment also monitors developments in corporate prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of non-audit services where the 66 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Governance cost of the proposed assignment is likely to and the audit engagement partner and staffs Phaswana, Karel Van Miert and Peter Woicke, exceed $50,000.
objectivity, and the related safeguards and all of whom are independent non-executive procedures, the Committee has concluded that directors.
The Board, in consultation with the Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services the external auditors independence was not Audit Committee chairman, makes to the Groups audit committees and inclusion of impaired.
The Board has prescribed detail, i. e. the breakdown of fees The Audit Committee approved the external determined that the Committee members have paid to external auditors for audit and non-audit auditors terms of engagement, scope of work, the skills and experience necessary to work in the Annual Reports of listed entities.
the process for the 2007 interim review, the contribute meaningfully to the Committees The policys definition of prohibited non-audit annual audit and the applicable levels of deliberations.
In addition, the chairman has services corresponds with the European materiality.
Based on written reports submitted, requisite experience in accounting and financial Commissions recommendations the Committee reviewed, with the external management.
auditors, the findings of their work and The Committee met three times during Other safeguards encapsulated in the confirmed that all significant matters had been 2007, and on one of those occasions the policy include: satisfactorily resolved.
members held discussions with the external the external auditors are required to adhere The Committees assessment of the audit partners and the head of internal audit in to a rotation policy based on best practice external auditors performance and the absence of management.
and professional standards in the United independence underpins its recommendation Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation to the Board to propose to shareholders the Effectiveness of internal control and of the audit engagement partner is five re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as risk management years and, for any key audit principal, seven auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in The Chief Executives Committee, CeCom as years.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to mandated by the Board, has established a any partner designated as a key audit re-appoint and determine their remuneration Group-wide system of internal control to principal of Anglo American shall not be will be proposed at the AGM on 15 April 2008. manage significant Group risks.
This system, employed by Anglo American in a key which has been operating throughout the year management position unless a period of Internal audit and to the date of this report, supports the at least two years has elapsed since the Following an independent review of the Board in discharging its responsibility for conclusion of the last relevant audit.
structure of the internal audit function in 2006 ensuring that the wide range of risks associated the external auditors are required to a central department was created with with the Groups diverse international periodically assess, in their professional responsibility for reviewing and providing operations is effectively managed in support of judgement, whether they are independent assurance on the adequacy of the internal the creation and preservation of shareholder from the Group.
control environment across all of Anglo wealth.
Where appropriate, necessary action t he Audit Committee ensures that the Americans operations.
The head of internal has been or is being taken to remedy any scope of the auditors work is sufficient and audit is responsible for reporting the findings of failings or weaknesses identified from review of that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
this internal audit work to the Audit Committee the effectiveness of the internal control system.
the Audit Committee has primary on a regular basis.
Internal audit teams operated responsibility for making recommendations in all of the Groups principal divisions in the Internal control to the Board on the appointment, period under review, reporting findings to local The system of internal control, which is reappointment and removal of the external senior management.
Internal audit functions embedded in all key operations, provides auditors.
mandates and annual audit coverage plans were reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Audit Committee has the authority to approved by the Audit Committee.
the Groups business objectives will be achieved engage independent counsel and other The internal audit activities are performed within the risk tolerance levels defined by the advisors as they determine necessary in either by teams of appropriate, qualified and Board.
Regular management reporting, which order to resolve issues on auditor experienced employees, or through the provides a balanced assessment of key risks and independence.
engagement of external practitioners upon controls, is an important component of Board specified and agreed terms.
In addition, certain Board committees The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that results and risk-management information was focus on specific risks such as safety and capital the United Kingdom professional and regulatory presented to the Committee at regular intervals investment and provide assurance to the Board requirements for audit partner rotation and throughout the year.
The Groups head of on those matters.
The chief financial officers employment of former employees of the internal audit reports to the Audit Committee provide confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, external auditors have been complied with.
on the internal audit functions performance that financial and accounting control frameworks The Audit Committee considered against Group standards.
The Board also information pertaining to the balance between Assurance regarding the accuracy and receives assurance from the Audit Committee, fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group reliability of mineral resources and ore reserves which derives its information, in part, from in 2007 and concluded that the nature and disclosures is provided through a combination of regular internal and external audit reports on risk extent of non-audit fees do not present a threat internal technically proficient staff and and internal control throughout the Group.
The to the external auditors independence.
Groups internal audit function has a formal Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the collaboration process in place with the external external auditors on all their relationships with Composition auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal Anglo American that might reasonably have a The Audit Committee presently comprises: controls.
The Anglo American internal audit bearing on the external auditors independence David Challen chairman, Chris Fay, Fred function is responsible for providing independent Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 67 Governance Corporate governance continued assurance to CeCom and the Board on the management assertions and independent any conduct contrary to the ethical effectiveness of the risk management process assurance reports.
The Board also takes account principles embraced in our Good throughout the Group.
of material changes and trends in the risk profile Citizenship: Our Business Principles or any Anglo American seeks to have a sound and considers whether the control system, similar policy: system of internal control, based on the Groups including reporting, adequately supports the any other legal or ethical concern: and policies and guidelines, in all material associates Board in achieving its risk management concealment of any of the above.
In those companies that are objectives.
independently managed, as well as joint During the course of the year the Board The programme makes available a selection of ventures, the directors who are represented on considered the Groups responsiveness to telephonic, e-mail, web-based and surface mail these organisations boards seek assurance that changes within its business environment.
communication channels to any person in the significant risks are being managed.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing world who has information about unethical process, which has been operational during the practice in Anglo American and its managed Risk management year, and up to the date of approval of the operations.
The multilingual communication The Boards policy on risk management Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and facilities are operated by independent service encompasses all significant business risks to managing the significant risks faced by the providers who remove all indications from the Group, including, financial, operational and Group.
This includes social, environmental and information received as to the identity of the compliance risk, which could undermine the ethical risks as highlighted in the Disclosure callers before submission to designated persons achievement of business objectives.
This Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment in the Group.
system of risk management is designed so that issued by the Association of British Insurers.
A During 2007, 230 reports were received via the different businesses are able to tailor and detailed report on social, environmental and the global Speakup facility, covering a broad adapt their risk management processes to suit ethical issues will be included in the Companys spectrum of concerns, including ethical, their specific circumstances.
This flexible Report to Society 2007. criminal, supplier relationships, health and approach has the commitment of the Groups safety, and human resource-type issues.
There is clear Accountability and audit Reports received were kept strictly confidential accountability for risk management, which is The Board is required to present a balanced and and were referred to appropriate line managers a key performance area of line managers understandable assessment of Anglo within the Group for resolution.
The requisite risk and Americans financial position and prospects.
appropriate, action was taken to address the control capability is assured through Board Such assessment is provided in the chairmans issues raised.
challenge and appropriate management and chief executives statements set out on selection and skills development.
Managers pages 4 to 9 and the financial review set out Executive management are supported in giving effect to their risk on pages 15 to 57 of this Annual Report.
The Chief Executives Committee CeCom responsibilities through policies and guidelines respective responsibilities of the directors and CeCom is responsible for implementing the on risk and control management.
Continuous external auditors are set out on pages 84 and strategies and policies determined by the Board, monitoring of risk and control processes, across 86.
As referred to in the directors report on managing the business and affairs of the headline risk areas and other business-specific page 61, the directors have expressed their Company, prioritising the allocation of capital, risk areas, provides the basis for regular and view that Anglo Americans business is a technical and human resources and establishing exception reporting to business management going concern.
CeCom is also and boards, CeCom and the Board.
responsible for senior management Some of the headline risk areas, which have Whistleblowing programme appointments and monitoring their performance been elaborated upon in the financial review, Following adoption in December 2003 of a and acts as the risk committee for the purpose set out on pages 55 to 57 are: whistleblowing policy that is aligned with the of reviewing and monitoring Anglo Americans commodity price risk: Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, the Group systems of internal control.
political risk: has implemented a whistleblowing programme CeCom presently comprises: Cynthia Carroll legal and regulatory risk: in virtually all of the managed operations.
The chair, Ren Mdori, Russell King and counterparty risk: and programme, which is monitored by the Audit Tony Redman.
infrastructure and operational Committee, is aimed at enabling employees, performance risks.
customers, suppliers, managers or other Executive Committee ExCo stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise ExCo inter alia develops corporate and business The risk assessment and reporting criteria are concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to unit strategy, monitors strategic process in designed to provide the Board with a consistent, be contrary to our values.
It may include: terms of key milestones and reviews Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
The actions that may result in danger to the operational and safety procedures of the reports to the Board, which are submitted at health and or safety of people or damage Groups business units.
least every six months, include an assessment to the environment: The current members of ExCo are: of the likelihood and impact of risks unethical practice in accounting, internal Cynthia Carroll chair, Ren Mdori, Russell materialising, as well as risk mitigation accounting controls, financial reporting and King, Tony Redman, Philip Baum, Brian initiatives and their effectiveness.
auditing matters: Beamish, Norman Mbazima, John Wallington, In conducting its annual review of the criminal offences, including money Duncan Wanblad and David Weston.
effectiveness of risk management, the Board laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption: considers the key findings from the ongoing failure to comply with any legal obligation: monitoring and reporting processes, miscarriage of justice: 68 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Governance Investment Committee Shareholders will have the opportunity The role of the Investment Committee, which is at the forthcoming AGM, notice of which is a sub-committee of CeCom, is to manage the contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, process of capital allocation by ensuring that to put questions to the Board, including the investments and divestments increase chairmen of the various committees.
Facilities shareholder value and meet Anglo Americans have been put in place to enable shareholders financial criteria.
The Committee makes on the UK register to receive Company recommendations to CeCom and or the Board communications electronically rather than by on these matters.
The Committee meets mail and, for those unable to attend the as required.
meeting, to cast their votes by electronic The Investment Committee presently means, including those shareholders whose comprises: Ren Mdori chairman, Dorian shares are held in the CREST system.
Emmett, Tony Redman and Peter Whitcutt.
Voting on each resolution to be proposed at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than Relations with shareholders by a show of hands.
The results of the poll will The Company maintains an active dialogue with be announced to the press and on the its key financial audiences, including Companys website.
institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
The Investor and Corporate Affairs department manages the ongoing dialogue with these audiences and regular presentations take place at the time of interim and final results as well as during the rest of the year.
An active programme with potential shareholders is also maintained.
Any concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the Investor and Corporate Affairs Department and analysts reports are circulated to the directors.
During the year there have been regular presentations and meetings with institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, continental Europe and the US to communicate the strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors as well as key corporate officers host such presentations and meetings.
The chairman, senior independent non-executive director and other non-executive directors are also available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to raise.
co. uk provides the latest and historical financial and other information on Anglo American.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 69
