Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 33 Audit information Employees with disabilities The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that they continued to use the Governments two ticks disability symbol ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people any relevant audit information and to establish that the with disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavouring Companys auditors are aware of that information.
to retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled during employment.
We will actively retrain and adjust their Employee involvement environment where possible to allow them to maximise their We have maintained our commitment to employee involvement potential.
We continue to work with external organisations to provide Employees are kept well informed of the performance and workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Start objectives of the Group through personal briefings, regular scheme and by working closely with jobcentreplus.
meetings, electronic communications and Chief Executive broadcasts at key points in the year to all head office employees Creditor payment policy and store management.
These are supplemented by our For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: employee publications including, 'Your M&S' magazine, and agree the terms of payment at the start of business with that DVD presentations.
More than 3,500 employees elected onto supplier: Business Involvement Groups across every store and head office location represent their colleagues in two-way ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: communication and consultation with the Company.
They have and continued to play a key role in a wide variety of business pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal changes including proposals in January 2007 to put our final obligations.
salary pension scheme on a more secure footing for the future.
The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a policy The twelfth meeting of the European Council took place last concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: July.
This council provides an additional forum for informing, general merchandise is automatically paid for 11 working consulting and involving employee representatives from the days from the end of the week of delivery: countries in the European Community.
food is paid for 13 working days from the end of the week of Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and delivery based on the timely receipt of an accurate invoice : discuss, with employees, matters of current interest and and concern to the business.
distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred in Share schemes are a long-established part of our total reward that month, based on estimates, and payments are adjusted package, encouraging and supporting employee share quarterly to reflect any variations to estimate.
In particular, over 21,000 employees currently participate in the Companys All Employee Sharesave Scheme.
Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year Full details of all schemes are given on pages 45-46. ended 31 March 2007 were 14.7 days, or 9.8 working days last year 13.1 days, or 8.8 working days, based on the ratio of We maintain contact with retired staff through communications company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, including employees and pensioners.
We continue to produce Market value of properties a regular Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final The last formal valuation of the Groups properties was carried salary pension scheme and our M&S Retirement Plan.
Taking into account movements in the Groups property portfolio since that date, the directors Equal opportunities are of the opinion that the market value of the Groups properties, The Group is committed to an active Equal Opportunities Policy at 31 March 2007 exceeded their net book value including from recruitment and selection, through training and prepayments in respect of leasehold land of the fixed asset development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
and leasehold properties by approximately 1.1bn.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from Charitable donations discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone During the year, the Group made charitable donations to will receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic support the community of 13.9m last year 9.3m.
These or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation principally consisted of cash donations of 3.8m last year or religion.
All decisions relating to employment practices will be 3.4m which includes the cost of our flagship community objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria programme Marks & Start, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, and individual merit.
Prostate Cancer Awareness and other charitable donations, The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees, 3.0m last year 1.3m of employee time principally for the customers and the community at large and we are an Marks & Start programme and local community projects, organisation that endeavours to use everyones talents and and stock donations of 6.6m last year 4.2m to a variety of abilities to the full.
charities including Shelter, Fareshare, Birth Defects Foundation 34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 Group Directors report continued as well as to the local community.
Following the collapse of the Farepak Christmas savings scheme at the end of 2006, we replaced the lost savings of around 420 employees in full with M&S gift vouchers.
We also donated 250,000 to the Farepak Response Fund set up to provide some compensation for savers.
Political donations It is our policy not to make donations for political purposes in the UK, to donate to EU Political parties or incur EU Political Expenditure.
Accordingly neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any Political Donations or incurred Political Expenditure in the financial year under review.
Under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, shareholder authority is required for Political Donations to be made or Political Expenditure to be incurred by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in the EU and disclose any such payments in the Annual report.
The legislation gives a wide definition of what constitutes Political Donations and Political Expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties and support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform.
The Company has therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a precautionary measure to allow the Company to continue supporting the community and such organisations without inadvertently breaching the legislation.
At the 2006 AGM the Board obtained authority to make Political Donations or to incur Political Expenditure in the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations up to an aggregate annual limit of 100,000 for each of the six principal employing companies.
This authority will expire in 2010.
Going concern After making enquires, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
Annual general meeting The Notice of the AGM to be held on 10 July 2007 is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the Board Graham Oakley, Group Secretary London 21 May 2007 Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 35 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to achieving long term success for the The Chairman ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely Company by building a sustainable business for the long term, and clear information.
Directors are encouraged to update their generating shareholder value through consistent, profitable skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group through their growth whilst making sure that our customers can always trust initial induction, on-going participation at Board and committee us to do the right thing.
This statement explains our governance meetings, and through meeting our people at store locations policies and practices and provides insight into how the Board and elsewhere.
Views of customers and shareholders are also and management run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
The Board is regularly The governance rules which apply to all UK companies listed on updated on governance and regulatory matters.
There is an the London Stock Exchange are found in the Combined Code established procedure whereby the Board or any of its on Corporate Governance which was updated by the Financial committees may take independent professional advice when Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
Any individual director, wishing to do so in the of how we comply with the Codes principles can be found at furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional www.
com investorrelations, together with the advice through the secretary at the Company's expense.
The matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference of the Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
In addition, the directors and secretary have been granted qualifying third party indemnities.
The Board Membership Chief Executive On 1 April 2007 the Board comprised nine directors: the Stuart Rose as Chief Executive has delegated authority from the Chairman, Chief Executive, two executive directors and five Board for all aspects of the management of the Group and its non-executive directors.
The five non-executive directors are business, which includes developing the appropriate business all considered by the Board to be independent of management.
strategies for Board approval and achieving timely and effective Collectively the Board is responsible for the success of implementation.
He ensures that, within the strategies agreed by the Company.
A full list of the directors, with details of their the Board, appropriate objectives and policies are adopted for biographies and committee membership, is given on page 27. each area of the business, that appropriate budgets are set and On 24 January 2007 we announced that Jack Keenan, nonthat their performance is effectively managed in keeping with the executive director, will be retiring from the Board following the Groups values and business principles.
The principal business AGM to be held on Tuesday 10 July 2007, when he will have unit directors report directly to the Chief Executive and give completed two three-year terms as a non-executive director.
regular presentations to the Board on strategies and On 22 May 2007 we announced the appointment of performance in their relevant areas of the business.
Martha Lane Fox as a non-executive director with effect from Senior Independent Director 1 June 2007.
On 25 April 2007 we announced a number of Sir David Michels succeeded Kevin Lomax as Senior senior management changes described on page 10 to position Independent Director on 1 September 2006.
He provides a the Company for the next phase of its growth.
Following these communication channel between the Chairman and the nonchanges, the responsibilities of the executive directors was executive directors and ensures that the views of each nonre-aligned.
Stuart Rose will continue to manage the trading executive director are given due consideration.
He is an functions and will add International to his direct reports.
With the additional contact point for shareholders if they have reason for store modernisation programme well under way, Ian Dyson will concern that cannot be addressed through the normal channels now be responsible for Store Design and Development and of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director or for which Procurement, alongside his current responsibilities for Finance, such contact is inappropriate.
He also reviews the Chairmans Property and IT.
Steven Sharp remains responsible for Marketing performance on behalf of the Board.
and the M&S Money relationship with HSBC and will also focus The Non-Executive Directors on the next generation of store design.
The non-executive directors provide a varied range of skills and Chairman experience to the Group.
They bring an independent judgement Lord Burns was appointed Chairman on 11 July 2006, having on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people through joined the Board as Deputy Chairman on 1 October 2005.
As their contribution at Board and committee meetings.
The Chairman he leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring its Chairman concludes that each non-executive director is proper functioning, the balance and mix of its membership, independent in character and judgement and that each makes subject to Board and shareholder approval, and for encouraging an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and all directors to play their full part in debating matters to deliver demonstrates commitment to the role.
Any term beyond six value to shareholders.
He ensures effective communication with years ie two three-year terms for a non-executive director is shareholders and that Board members have a sound subject to rigorous review.
understanding of the views of all investors.
The Chairman also leads the formal assessment of Board and individual director Following the appointment of new non-executive directors in performance.
February and March 2006 and June 2007, the Board has reviewed committee membership to refresh the skills, knowledge and experience of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 Corporate governance statement continued Graham Oakley, Group Secretary, acts as a sounding board The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight to the Chairman and individual directors.
Its primary functions are: Chairman in ensuring the Board functions effectively and to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other fulfils its role.
He is secretary of the Audit, Remuneration information to shareholders: and Nomination Committees and also heads the Corporate to review the systems of internal control and risk Governance Group, which supports the Board and its management: and committees, as well as providing advice on a range of issues to commercial colleagues.
to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Company's external auditors and to review the effectiveness and The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its objectivity of the audit process.
decision and delegates certain matters to committees as set out below.
The Board determines the overall Group strategy: It met four times during the year and items reviewed include: creation, acquisition or disposal of material corporate entities General Merchandise direct buying processes: General or assets: development and protection of the brand: matters of Merchandise distribution centre operations: e-commerce: Food public interest that could affect the Group's reputation: public buying: Food stock management: Food primary logistics: and announcements including statutory accounts: significant financial controls over sales, stock and cash.
The Committee changes in accounting policy: capital structure and dividend received updates for Business Continuity Planning and Finance policy: operating plans and key performance indicators: systems implementation and reviewed the effectiveness of the prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group Groups whistleblowing process.
Private meetings have been remuneration policy and Board structure, composition and held separately with the external auditors and the Chief Internal succession.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board Auditor.
com investorrelations The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence We are committed to our principles of Quality, Value, Service, and objectivity of the external auditors,  Innovation and Trust.
Trust is earned from others as a result of LLP PwC, including the review of audit fee proposals and our commitment to long-held values and the way we behave.
An engagement and fee approvals process is Our Code of Ethics outlines the behaviours that M&S expects in place which requires prior approval from the Committee for from employees whether they are dealing with our customers, some engagements and excludes others.
In some cases, the suppliers, shareholders or colleagues.
It also includes guidelines nature of the non-audit advice may make it more timely and on the environment, fraud and financial reporting and the cost-effective to select PwC, who already have a good management of conflicts of interest.
It is circulated to employees understanding of the Group.
PwC may also be appointed for on an annual basis and senior managers are required to sign consultancy work, but only after rigorous checks, including their annual acceptance of the Code of Ethics.
competitive tender, to confirm they are the best provider.
PwC In addition, in January 2007 we announced Plan A, our is also subject to professional standards which safeguard the business wide eco plan setting out our ambition to change the integrity of the auditing role performed on behalf of way we operate over the next five years.
Plan A is overseen by shareholders.
As authorised by shareholders at the AGM in July the How we do business Committee whose role is described 2006, the Audit Committee determines the level of remuneration on page 37. for the external auditors on behalf of the Board.
Details of this year's fees are given in note 4 to the financial statements.
Committees of the Board The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The written terms and is confident that the collective experience of the members of reference of each committee can be found at enables them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
com investorrelations Committee also has access to the financial expertise of the Audit Committee Group and its auditors and can seek further professional advice The Audit Committee comprises four independent nonat the Companys expense, if required.
Jeremy Darroch who is the Chief Financial Officer of British Sky Broadcasting plc, took over the Chair of the Committee on 1 September 2006.
The other members are Steven Holliday, Jack Keenan and Sir David Michels.
Jack Keenan will retire as a member when he retires from the Board following the AGM on 10 July 2007.
Kevin Lomax was Chairman of the Committee until he retired from the Board on 31 August 2006.
Sir David Michels joined the Committee on 26 May 2006.
Martha Lane Fox will join the Committee on 1 June 2007.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 37 Remuneration Committee Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent nonseek election at their first Annual General Meeting following executive directors.
Louise Patten took over the Chair of the appointment and all directors are required to offer themselves Committee on 1 January 2007.
The other members are Steven for re-election at least every three years.
Following the Holliday, Jack Keenan and Sir David Michels.
Jack Keenan was introduction of The Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 Committee Chairman until 31 December 2006 and will remain a and the repeal of a provision in the Companies Act 1985, it is member of the Committee until he retires from the Board proposed that the requirement in our Articles for directors following the AGM on 10 July 2007.
Sir David Michels was reaching the age of 70 or more to retire and seek re-election appointed to the Committee on 26 May 2006 and Kevin Lomax annually, be removed.
An amendment to the Companys Articles was a member of the Committee until he retired from the Board is to be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
Martha Lane Fox will join the Committee on How we do business Committee 1 June 2007.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, was It met eight times during the year and its primary role is to reconstituted in November 2006 as an Executive Committee, recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and called the How we do business HWDB Committee, to framework, giving due regard to the financial and commercial ensure that the way we do business is integral to the way health of the Company and to ensure the executive directors the business operates.
It comprises Stuart Rose Chairman, and senior management are fairly rewarded for their individual Steven Sharp and 10 members of senior management who hold contributions to the Companys overall performance.
The responsibilities for key aspects of our social, environmental and remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by ethical performance.
Paul Myners was Committee Chairman the Chairman and the executive directors.
until he retired from the Board on 11 July 2006.
Lord Burns was a Committee member becoming Committee Chairman The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 44-50 as required on 12 July 2006.
Both Lord Burns and Jack Keenan left the by the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Committee when it was reconstituted in November 2006.
Nomination Committee The Committees primary aim is to oversee the implementation The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the of Plan A, a business-wide eco plan impacting on every Chief Executive and five independent non-executive directors, part of the Companys operations over the next five years, Lord Burns is Committee Chairman.
The other members are whilst providing the Board with an overview of the social, Jeremy Darroch, Steven Holliday, Jack Keenan, Sir David Michels, environmental and ethical impacts of the Groups activities and Louise Patten and Stuart Rose.
Kevin Lomax was a member of how they are being managed.
The key commitments set out in the Committee until he retired from the Board on 31 August Plan A, on climate change, waste, raw materials, fair trade and 2006.
Stuart Rose joined the Committee on 24 January 2007. healthy eating are reviewed and their implementation overseen Jack Keenan will retire as a Committee member when he retires by the Committee.
from the Board following the AGM on 10 July 2007.
Further information is given on pages 10-11 and in our HWDB report, available on the Company's website at It met once during the year as the review of senior succession www.
com , was conducted by the full Board in June 2006, rather than the which details our commitments and performance to date, Committee.
Its role is to ensure that appropriate procedures are including references to the United Nations Global Reporting in place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of Index.
directors and for successional plans.
The Committee reviews the Companys Board structure, size, composition and successional needs, thereby keeping under consideration the balance of membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
On 22 May 2007 we announced the appointment of a new non-executive, Martha Lane Fox, with effect from 1 June 2007.
This followed a search by an external search consultancy commissioned by the Nomination Committee.
The candidates were shortlisted by the Chairman and Chief Executive and the preferred candidate then seen by a wider group of directors.
38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 Corporate governance statement continued The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings: Group Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Name of Director AB AB AB AB Lord Burns, Chairman Deputy until 11 July 2006 10 10 1 1 Paul Myners, Chairman retired 11 July 2006 4 4 Stuart Rose, Chief Executive 10 10 1 1 Executive Directors Ian Dyson 10 10 Steven Sharp 10 10 Non-Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 10 10 4 4 - - 1 1 1 Steven Holliday 10 84 38 71 0 Jack Keenan 10 10 4 4 8 8 1 1 Kevin Lomax retired 31 August 2006 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 Sir David Michels 10 10 31 77 11 3 Louise Patten 10 10 8 7 1 1 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings the director actually attended 1 Steven Holliday was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting on 16 May 2006, the Board meeting on 6 November 2006, the Nomination Committee meeting on 23 January 2007 and the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings on 24 January 2007 due to overseas commitments with National Grid plc.
2 Sir David Michels was unable to attend the Audit Committee meetings on 4 September and 1 November 2006 as the meeting dates had been set prior to his appointment to the Committee.
3 Louise Patten was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting on 10 May 2006 due to her attendance as Chairman at the AGM of Brixton plc.
Board performance evaluation The approach taken during 2006 07 was to further develop the thorough and robust process adopted in 2005 06 and to evolve this to the next stage.
The Board was keen to ensure that the evaluation was a continuous process building on the previous years evaluation.
In September 2006, the Chairman agreed with the Board that a thorough review would be conducted combining the use of a questionnaire and one-to-one interviews led by the Chairman.
The questionnaire focused on four key areas and also allowed opportunity for the Directors to give additional constructive feedback via a free text box.
All results were collated electronically.
A non-attributable executive summary focusing on the key themes was prepared and used as the start of the one-to-one discussions for the Chairman and the Directors and the Chairman gave initial feedback to the Board on the key findings and how the subsequent action plan should be managed and reviewed.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 39 The success of this year's approach has been due to a number On 25 April 2007 we announced a number of senior of key factors: management changes to position the Company for the next phase of its growth.
We recruited two new people for positions evolving and building on the process used in 2005 06 and just below Board level as Director of Food and Director of using this as a starting point for the design of the 2006 07 International Business.
We also made further changes to our top review.
This ensured that we built on the lessons learnt, 30 senior management, including three new director roles within were not starting afresh, and focused on any areas that had the Food Division, building on the appointments made in been identified previously: October 2006. the approach was vigorous but simple and for the first time Accountability and audit the questionnaire was conducted electronically: The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise longensuring that the Chairman gained buy-in from all Board term shareholder value whilst exceeding the expectations of our members as to how the process should be conducted and customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors the need to ensure that this is an integral part of how they recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and work during 2007 08. accepting risk.
Committees Performance Evaluation The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach The process for reviewing the Committees in 2006 07 has been to assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for to combine on-going reviews with a simple questionnaire led by monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with each of the respective chairmen.
a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational The Audit and Remuneration Committees undertook a review and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
looking at their method of operation and processes and The role of executive management is to implement the Boards combined this with the use of a questionnaire which was policies on risk and control and to provide assurance on conducted in March 2007.
This proved particularly valuable compliance with these policies.
Independent assurance is given the change of Chairmanship of both of these committees provided by internal audit, which operates across the Group, Audit Jeremy Darroch and Remuneration Louise Patten and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for during the year.
An executive summary was produced for the operating within these policies.
Chairmen of both Committees which they discussed with their respective Committee members.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than The Nomination Committee reviewed its membership during the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
year appointing Stuart Rose as a member, prior to its dedicated Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute session in January 2007 on succession planning.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Succession Planning and Senior Leadership Development Risk assessment The Board Performance Evaluation in 2005 06 identified that Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Profile the this was an area the Board wished to give a greater focus to in tool that drives risk assessment and action planning.
Significant progress has been made in this area supported by an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and during the year including: managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral twice-yearly reviews of individuals of the two levels beneath part of planning and review, managers from each business area the Board full Board June 2006 and Nomination and major projects: Committee January 2007 : identify the risks to their plans: regular risk assessment of Succession Planning with evaluate the risks using likelihood and impact: and mitigating action identified: document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
a development programme established for high potential individuals.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Code produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 Corporate governance statement continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties There are risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups long-term performance.
The risk assessment process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The table below gives examples of activities across Group functions to mitigate against risks and uncertainties identified.
The Board considers that these are the most significant risks to achieving business goals.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk Impact Examples of Mitigating Activities PRODUCT: We aim to provide a wide choice of great value, quality food, clothing and home products, which are all sourced and made responsibly.
Clothing and Home We fail to achieve further Adverse effect on New and better product, better styling and better value with particular sales growth in an financial results focus on key departments increasingly competitive Shorter buying lead times to accommodate fast sellers and new fashion environment with Lost market share and Re-alignment of product footage by size of store potentially weaker customer loyalty Tracking of customer perceptions of product economic conditions.
Review of supply chain capacity, sourcing and planning to manage volume growth See pp 12-15 Growth of international business through our owned and franchised and 24-25 stores Improved e-commerce capability focusing on functionality, availability and fulfilment Plan A initiatives, eg ethical sourcing Food We fail to deliver profitable Adverse effect on Increase of Simply Food footage and development of e-commerce as sales growth while financial results new routes to market maintaining an innovation Continual product and technical innovation to maintain competitive gap over competitors.
Lost market share and advantage customer loyalty Response to new trends in eating and customer demand for fresh, See pp 16-19 natural and healthy food Independent quality assessment of key food lines Tracking of customer perceptions of product Plan A initiatives, eg differentiated raw materials SERVICE: We have been investing in our people to ensure that we meet our customers expectations of consistently great service, no matter when or where they visit us.
People We fail to attract, develop Inability to develop and Competitive reward packages and retain talent with the execute business plans Personal performance reviews, development plans and career paths correct skills and capability Buying Academies in head office and coaches in stores for succession.
Competitive Internal and external talent reviews resulting in promotions and external disadvantage appointments See page 10 and pp 20-21 Graduate recruitment and development Employee communication Tracking of employee satisfaction surveys Tracking of customer perceptions of service Business Interruption We fail to respond to or Inability to operate Business continuity and recovery plans in place and regularly tested recover from a major effectively Recoverability of critical IT operations incident.
Alternative workplace solutions for head office Remote working capabilities in place Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 41 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Impact Examples of Mitigating Activities ENVIRONMENT: We are opening new stores and modernising our existing portfolio to ensure we provide an exciting shopping experience in the right place, in the right space.
Stores We fail to deliver new real Unacceptable return on Property strategy developed to ensure good representation through our estate, extensions and investment store portfolio modernisations safely, on Governance and resource in place to achieve timelines, budgets and time and to budget.
Damage to reputation safety controls Modernisation programme under way to provide more convenient, exciting and modern shopping See pp 22-23 Tracking of customer perceptions of shopping environment PLAN A: Our five-year eco plan, launched in January 2007, to tackle challenges across five areas: climate change, waste, sustainable raw materials, fair partner and health.
Plan A We fail to manage, measure Lost stakeholder trust 100 point plan announced and monitored and communicate progress and confidence Governance in place to achieve our commitments against our Plan A Baselines, KPIs and accountabilities identified commitments.
Damage to reputation Plan A integrated into day-to-day operation including Plan A champions throughout head office and stores Open dialogue with stakeholders to develop our mutual understanding of See pp 9-11 the challenges we face
