Corporate Governance Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high The Board will also appoint Committees to approve ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, As an essential part of this commitment, the Group during the year, Board Committees were established supports the highest standards in corporate to approve dividend payments and preliminary and governance.
It is committed to the principles of the interim announcements.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial The Groups structure operates in such a way to Services Authority the Code and for which the Board ensure that all decisions are made by the most is accountable to shareholders.
appropriate people in a timely manner that will not unnecessarily delay progress.
The Directors and Statement of Compliance with the management teams of each Group business are Code responsible for those business entities.
They are tasked with the delivery of targets approved by the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Board and for the implementation of Group Strategy Company has complied with the Code in all material and Policy across their businesses.
The Board, at its meetings, reviews the financial results The paragraphs below, together with the report on of the Group.
A detailed business plan and annual Directors Remuneration set out on pages 46 to 56 budget is prepared for each operation in conjunction and the Report of the Audit Committee set out on with local management.
These are then compared in page 57 describe how these principles are applied detail with the monthly management accounts.
Executive Directors are required to comment on areas Directors where performance departs from current expectations.
Any significant variances are discussed The Board, balance and independence at Board level and appropriate action taken.
During 2007 the Board was scheduled to meet, and These policies and procedures collectively enable the did meet, nine times with additional meetings called Board to make informed decisions on a range of key if required.
In 2008 the Board is scheduled to meet six issues including those relating to strategy and risk times with three formal site visits also taking place management.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board.
three Executive Directors and three independent Medium and long-term strategy is frequently Non-Executive Directors who are equally responsible discussed and meetings are held with members of for the proper stewardship and leadership of the the Executive team, on a regular basis, to update the Company.
Taking into account the provisions of the Board on business and strategic issues.
In addition, Code, the Board has determined that each of the Nonthe Board is responsible for risk management and for Executive Directors is independent and free from any the development of Group policies including areas relationships which could compromise their such as health and safety, social, environmental and independent judgement.
The Board considers it is of ethical issues.
sufficient size for the discharge of its duties and that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate for The Board has formally delegated specific the requirements of the business.
The biographical responsibilities to Board Committees, including the details of the Directors are on page 35.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
40 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 The Board have appointed a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director who is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels had failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The attendance of the Directors at the Board and principal Board Committee meetings during the year are detailed in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings Mike Davies 9 n a 5 2 Andrew Allner 8 4 5 2 Ian Burrell 9 n a n a n a Graham Holden 9 n a n a n a Bill Husselby 8341 David Sarti 9 n a n a n a Richard Scholes 9 4 5 2 At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executives meet without the Chairman being present, at least annually, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Directors have the right to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed action will be recorded in the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director did have any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 41 Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee leads the process for Chairman and Chief Executive Board appointments and makes recommendations The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are to the Board about filling vacancies on the Board, held by separate individuals.
The Chairman is appointing additional persons to the Board and the primarily responsible for the leadership and effective re-election by shareholders of any Director under the working of the Board and ensuring that each Director, retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to Articles of Association.
He ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive the plans in place for the orderly succession of Directors and senior managers.
has responsibility for all operational matters which include the implementation of the Group Strategy Other significant commitments of the Chairman and and policies approved by the Board.
The Board has the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the approved written Terms of Reference for the Board before appointment and the Board is notified Chairman and Chief Executive.
It is the Company's policy that Executive Directors can only hold one The Chairman at the time of his appointment did Non-Executive Directorship.
Graham Holden is a Nonmeet, and continues to meet, the independence Executive Director of KCOM Group Plc.
Neither Ian criteria set out in the Code.
Burrell or David Sarti hold Non-Executive Directorships.
Appointments to the Board The Board has an established Nomination Committee The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive to lead the process for Board appointments and to Directors will continue to be available for inspection make recommendations to the Board.
The at the Companys registered office.
These letters of Committee meets periodically and at least once each appointment set out the expected time commitment year.
The members of the Nomination Committee are and Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will the Chairman, who chairs the meetings, and the three have sufficient time to meet what is expected of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Information and Professional Committee were reviewed during the year and are Development available on the Companys website at All Directors are supplied in a timely manner, with all www.
These Terms of Reference relevant documentation and financial information to explain the role of the Committee and the authority assist them in the discharge of their duties.
This delegated to it by the Board.
These Terms of Reference includes information on the Companys operational state that the Chairman would not chair the and financial performance.
At every meeting the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with his Board receives a health and safety report.
own re-appointment or the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
To ensure that Directors continually update their knowledge and familiarity with the Company, each On a regular basis the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the balance of skills, year a number of the Board meetings take place at knowledge and experience on the Board.
For a operational sites around the Group.
These visits particular appointment it will use this evaluation to enable the Directors to meet local management and prepare a description of the role and capabilities to keep them up-to-date with the business.
This Committee would prepare the job 2008 each of the Non-Executive Directors will attend specification, including an assessment of the time three meetings either at sites or with senior commitment expected, when it next appoints a executives to help gain a more detailed Chairman.
There have not been any Board understanding of the business.
42 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 In addition, each of the Directors has on-line access to meeting with senior management to gain a more the Virtual Learning Resource Centre at Ashridge, detailed understanding of the business, that the style which provides Learning Guides covering a broad of the Boards financial reporting should be amended spectrum of management skills and competencies.
to focus on key matters and the mechanics of the During the year the Directors received training on the Audit and Remuneration Committees should be Companies Act 2006. refined.
The exercise was viewed positively by the Directors and it will be undertaken again during the New appointments to the Board have experience and course of the current financial year.
skills to bring to the Company.
Training is offered to all new Directors.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Following the evaluation in 2006 the Board set itself Executive and the Company Secretary, ensure that objectives for the year.
Progress on these objectives newly appointed Directors receive full, formal and was reviewed in 2007, new objectives for 2008 have tailored induction on joining the Board.
Newly been agreed and a Board timetable has been set to appointed Directors would be available to ensure that they are properly considered during the shareholders if a meeting were requested.
no new appointments during the year.
As set out above there is an established process to All Directors have access to the advice and services of evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
the Company Secretary and are entitled to rely on the Re-election impartial and independent nature of that advice and those services.
The Company Secretary is responsible The Companys Articles of Association require for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with Directors to retire and seek re-election at the first and, through the Chairman, advises the Board on Annual General Meeting of the Company following Corporate Governance matters.
The Articles of Association include appointment and removal of the Company Secretary a provision for one third of the Directors to retire and is a matter for the Board as a whole.
seek re-election at each Annual General Meeting, ensuring that no Director serves more than three The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors years without retiring and being proposed for reto take independent professional advice at the appointment.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific duties.
terms subject to reappointment and the Companys Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Performance evaluation Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation The Nomination Committee has ensured that of its own performance and that of its three principal performance evaluations for each Director who is Committees.
A brief questionnaire covering the main retiring by rotation and being proposed for reareas of the evaluation was prepared by the election have been undertaken.
In the circular to Chairman and the Secretary and formed the basis of shareholders, accompanying the resolution to reone-to-one discussions between each of the appoint a Non-Executive Director, the Board will Directors and the Secretary.
The evaluation explain why it believes that the Non-Executive questionnaire included questions about the Director should be re-appointed.
The Chairman effectiveness of the Executive and the Non-Executive will confirm to shareholders when proposing Directors.
reappointment that, following a formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to Feedback on the points raised was considered by the be effective and that they demonstrate commitment Board.
The principal conclusions were that there to the role.
should be a re-allocation of Board time to allow the Non-Executive Directors to spend time visiting sites or Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 43 Corporate Governance continued Bill Husselby has completed his first three year term The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for and, following a review, was recently re-appointed for the Groups system of internal control and for a second three year term.
Mike Davies has served one reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is three year term and, following a review during the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the year, was re-appointed for a second term of three risk of failure to achieve business objectives and years from October 2007.
Richard Scholes and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Andrew Allner have each completed one three year assurance against material misstatement or loss.
term and were re-appointed for a second three year term in July 2006.
Any Non-Executive Director serving There is an ongoing process for identifying, more than six years will be subject to a particularly evaluating and managing the Groups significant rigorous review.
risks through a Risk Committee which reports directly to the Board.
Directors Remuneration The Risk Committee comprises the Executive Details of the Directors remuneration are set out Directors.
The Risk Committee is responsible for in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 56.
The identifying, evaluating and managing any report details the Companys compliance with the material risks which might threaten the Groups Codes requirements with regard to remuneration business objectives.
In undertaking this work, it matters.
The Terms of Reference of the receives regular risk reviews and an annual risk Remuneration Committee were reviewed during assessment report carried out by the head of each the year and are available on the Companys business unit.
From this information, the Risk website at www.
Committee has compiled a Register which identifies the Groups key risk areas, the Accountability and Audit probability of these risks occurring and the Financial Reporting impact they would have.
In addition, the Risk In presenting the Annual and Interim Financial Register identifies the controls that exist to Statements the Directors seek to present a manage and, where possible, minimise or balanced and understandable assessment of the eliminate those risks.
The Risk Register is used to Groups position and prospects.
The Directors direct action programmes to test the have adopted the going concern basis in effectiveness, including independent audit preparing these Financial Statements.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee on The responsibilities of the Directors and the behalf of the Board.
Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of In addition to the major risk review process, the Directors Responsibilities and the Auditors Group operates under an established internal Report on pages 38 and 58 to 59 respectively.
control framework, the key features of which include clearly defined reporting lines and Internal Control authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly reporting system.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its The Board has carried out an annual assessment effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review of the Groups risk management and internal and up to the date of this report the Board has control system for the year to 31 December 2007 operated procedures to meet the requirements of by considering reports from both the Audit the Code as set out in the Internal Control Committee and the Risk Committee.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
44 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Audit Committee and Auditors Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Information relating to the Audit Committee is set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 57.
The The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched report details the Companys compliance with the to shareholders, together with explanatory notes or a Codes requirements with regard to audit matters.
circular on items of special business, at least 20 The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are working days before the meeting.
It is the Companys available on the Companys website at practice to propose separate resolutions on each www.
substantially separate issue including a resolution relating to the Report and Accounts.
Going Concern A presentation is made on the progress and The Directors consider, after making appropriate performance of the business prior to the formal enquires at the time of approving the Financial business of the meeting.
Statements, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, Nomination Committee normally attend the Annual that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis General Meeting and are available to answer in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
All Directors normally attend the meeting.
Relations with Shareholders The Board welcomes questions from shareholders Dialogue with Shareholders who have an opportunity to raise issues informally or The Board is accountable to shareholders for the formally before or at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board accordingly places great emphasis on maintaining good For each resolution the proxy appointment forms communications with shareholders.
provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or against the resolution or to The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet withhold their vote.
The Company will ensure that the proxy form and any announcement of the results of a regularly with major shareholders to discuss the Groups performance, strategic issues and vote will make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation shareholder investment objectives.
Reports of these of the proportion of the votes for and against the meetings and any shareholder communications resolution.
during the year, are reported to the Board.
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded The regular announcements of significant events and counted.
For each resolution, after the vote has affecting the Group and the frequent updates on been taken, information on the number of proxy current trading emphasises the Boards commitment votes for and against the resolution, and the number to keeping the Companys investors informed of of shares in respect of which the vote was withheld, developments affecting the Group.
The Company are given at the meeting and are made available on does, periodically, arrange site visits for investors.
the Companys web site at www.
The Company will continue this practice and will, in future, From time to time, and when appropriate, the Nonalso include information on the number of shares in Executive Directors will attend meetings with major respect of which proxy appointments have been shareholders.
The Board regularly receives copies of validly made.
The Annual and Interim Reports, together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with all shareholders during the year.
