Report of the Audit Committee The Board has an established Audit Committee.
Each The Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed of its members is an independent Non-Executive the arrangements by which employees, and other Director.
The Board is satisfied that this Committee people working for the Company, may in confidence includes members that have recent and relevant raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial experience required by the Code.
Richard matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Scholes, who is the Chairman, and Andrew Allner are Company does have a Serious Concerns Policy both Chartered Accountants.
During part of the year Whistleblowing Policy which is available to all Andrew Allner was the Group Finance Director of employees.
It is displayed on notice boards and on RHM plc.
The policy sets out the procedure for employees to raise legitimate The main role and responsibilities of the Audit concerns about any wrong-doing without fear of Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference criticism, discrimination or reprisal.
This includes the which were reviewed during the year and are right to speak directly to the Chairman of the Audit available on the Companys website at Committee.
The policy was reviewed during the year www.
and the Audit Committee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for independent investigation of such matters and for making a recommendation on the appointment, reappropriate follow-up action.
appointment and removal of the external auditor to the Board, to put to shareholders for their approval at The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the the Annual General Meeting.
It keeps under review effectiveness of internal control activities and during the scope and results of the audit, its costthe year it considered whether there was a need for effectiveness and the independence and objectivity an in-house internal audit function.
It concluded, of the auditor.
Any work awarded to the external having reviewed the current process where firms of auditors with a value in excess of 25,000, or in external accountants other than the Companys aggregate a value exceeding 50,000 in any financial auditors carry out regular internal audit year, other than audit and tax compliance, requires assignments of a financial and systems nature, that the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
Where this was the most effective means of managing the the Committee perceives that the independence of internal audit function.
In addition, the Audit the auditors could be compromised, the work will Committee noted that the Company supported the not be awarded to the external auditors.
Details of work of the internal audit function with a self amounts paid to the external auditors for audit and certification internal control process.
non-audit services in 2007 are analysed in Note 3 on page 72.
The aggregate amount paid to other firms The Report of the Audit Committee has been of accountants for non-audit services was 205,000 approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 2006: 181,000.
This Committee reviews the Interim and Annual Richard Scholes Financial Statements before submission to the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal 7 March 2008 control system.
The Audit Committee reviews the planned Internal Audit Programme.
The results of all assignments have been reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
These assignments form part of a much wider programme of independently audited aspects of the Groups operations.
