14474Middle section :Layout 1 10 12 07 17:51 Page 9 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Directors, meets weekly to discuss operational matters.
Combined Code The Board is briefed on the decisions reached by the The Group is committed to achieving high standards of Committee including those involving risk management, corporate governance and to maintaining integrity and health and safety issues and property transactions below high ethical standards in all its business activities.
The a specified financial authority limit.
Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period, and up to the date All Directors have access to the advice and services of of this report, except with regard to Code provision A3.2 the Company Secretary and also to independent legal which provides that at least half of the Board, excluding advice.
On appointment to the Board all Directors receive the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive appropriate training: a full induction programme covering Directors.
The report sets out below how the principles of briefings and meetings with divisional directors and senior the Combined Code have been applied by the Group and management: and a formal training session, run by third the reasoning behind the composition of the Board.
party advisers, covering directors obligations under the Companies Act 2006.
The Group maintains insurance Board structure cover and indemnities in respect of legal proceedings During the period, the Board comprised five Non-executive and other claims against its Directors and officers.
Directors, one of whom was the Chairman, and five Executive Directors.
In accordance with the Combined Code, separate All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at individuals, David Thompson and Ralph Findlay, are appointed the first opportunity following appointment and to re-election to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
at intervals not exceeding three years.
Non-executive Peter Lipscomb, Deputy Chairman, served as the Senior Directors are appointed for terms of three years.
In addition, Independent Director during the period until 1 October 2007 any Non-executive Director who has served for more than when Lord Hodgson was appointed as the Senior Independent nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The Non-executive Directors all possess a wide biographical details are set out on pages 26 and 27. range of skills and experience.
All exercise independent Miles Emley, Stephen Oliver and Paul Inglett are standing judgement although David Thompson, the Chairman, cannot for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
be considered independent under the requirements of the Code because of his past experience as a long serving The Board considers that all Directors bring an individual Executive Director.
The Board consider that the current judgement to the Boards deliberations in respect of strategy, balance of Executives and Non-executives is such that no one performance, resources, key appointments and standards of individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision conduct.
All Non-executive Directors are considered by the making by virtue of the strength of experience and character Board to be free from any business or other relationship possessed by the independent Non-executive Directors.
This which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
is further strengthened by the process by which matters are In line with previous years, the Chairman conducted a disclosed to, and decisions are taken by, the Board.
review of the Board, its Directors and Committees through consultation with each Director and discussion with the The Board met 12 times during the year and each Director Senior Independent Director.
The Non-executive Directors also attended all of the Board meetings.
It has a formal schedule met, without the Chairman being present.
This was to consider of matters reserved to it for approval ensuring that it considers the governance of the Board and the Group, including the strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters performance of the Chairman.
All of these matters were with timely information provided in advance of each meeting.
considered and the Directors concluded that the Board The Board approves major acquisitions, disposals and continues to operate effectively.
Where relevant, and not in capital expenditure projects, all financial statements and respect of their own performance, the Chairman and the Chief the annual budgets.
All Directors receive within their Board Executive were involved in evaluating the composition of the papers details of the Groups performance against budget Board and Committees, the meeting process, information and and individual reports from the Chief Executive, Finance training, leadership, effectiveness and compliance with the Director and divisional managing directors.
The Board also Combined Code.
The results of the review were reported back receives formal presentations from senior managers on to the Board and a number of action points concerning a regular basis, which provides an opportunity for formal administration and review procedures have been incorporated discussions with them.
There is a strategy away-day held into next years meetings agendas.
The Board is satisfied with annually to enable the full Board to focus on each division its own composition, meeting process and minute recording, and consider the Groups opportunities, key risks and and that of its Committees.
In addition, the Chairman met operating issues.
informally with the Non-executive Directors on a number of occasions during the year without the Executive Directors There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities being present.
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for running an effective Board During the period the Chairman, David Thompson, continued and concentrating on the strategic development of the his appointment as Executive Director of Ragleth Limited Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing Ragleth and as the controlling shareholder of Anglia Maltings strategy and running the business in accordance with the Holdings Limited.
He has no controlling interest in Ragleth objectives agreed by the Board.
and consequently the transactions between the Group and The Executive Committee, comprising the five Executive Ragleth are not Related Party Transactions as defined by 30 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3 14474Middle section :Layout 1 10 12 07 17:51 Page 10 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IFRS.
David Thompson has continued his appointment on firms for a range of non-audit work.
The Group also uses the basis of Ragleth allowing him sufficient time to devote the external auditors for non-audit services such as taxation to the chairmanship of the Company and the Board consider advice and planning, and corporate activity.
Where non-audit this to be working well.
work is expected to be in excess of an agreed monetary amount, the chairman of the Audit Committee must approve Board Committees the use of the external auditors.
The Committee are satisfied All Board Committees have agreed terms of reference that that where the external auditors are used for non-audit meet the provisions of the Combined Code published in services their objectivity and independence is not June 2006 and they are approved by the Board.
In reaching this conclusion the Committee be found on the Groups website at www.
considered a report prepared by  LLP prior to the year end, reviewing the potential threats to Nomination Committee their objectivity and independence in the light of the ethical The structure, size and composition of the Board, together standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Where a with Board appointments and re-elections are considered potential risk was identified the Committee was satisfied that by the Nomination Committee which comprises David the safeguards that the external auditors had put in place Thompson Chairman, Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay, Lord were sufficient to prevent a threat to their independence Hodgson, Peter Lipscomb and Rosalind Cuschieri with and objectivity.
No Director is involved in any decision regarding his or her own re-appointment.
The Communication Committee met twice during the period, with all Committee The Group recognises the importance of maintaining a members attending all meetings, to consider re-elections, strong relationship with its shareholders as a key priority re-appointments, the composition of the Board and with the Annual Report and Interim Statement being the succession planning.
principal media used, as well as regular institutional presentations, covering reports on trading and market Remuneration Committee conditions and strategy.
During the year the Chairman The Remuneration Committee comprises Peter Lipscomb and the Senior Independent Director offered to meet with the Chairman, Miles Emley, Lord Hodgson and Rosalind Companys major shareholders to discuss governance and Cuschieri with effect from 23 February 2007, with strategy and develop an understanding of shareholder views.
Ralph Findlay in attendance if required.
It is responsible All shareholders also have access to the Senior Independent for agreeing contract terms, remuneration and benefits, Director if they have specific corporate governance issues including bonuses, for Executive Directors and senior which cannot be resolved through the usual channels managers.
It is also responsible for the granting of LTIP of communication.
It met twice formally during the period to review pay and the performance of Directors The Group also maintains a website, www.
co. uk, in relation to bonuses and consider the granting of share which provides up to date information on its operations based incentives.
All Committee members attended and brands.
The Companys share price and all Company all meetings.
announcements are available on this site together with slides for analysts and investor presentations.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, The AGM, which is regularly attended by approximately 250 Lord Hodgson, Peter Lipscomb and Rosalind Cuschieri shareholders, provides an important forum for communicating with effect from 23 February 2007.
It monitors the directly with private shareholders and the opportunity for relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope shareholders to raise questions with the Board.
The notice of work and fees and reviews the results of the full year of meeting is sent out to shareholders at least twenty working audit and the interim results each year.
It also assesses days before the meeting and details of the results of proxy annually the cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence voting are announced after each resolution has been dealt of the external auditors.
The Committee also has responsibility with on a show of hands.
The voting results are also reported for the Groups whistleblowing policy and annually reviews on the Companys website.
its arrangements under this policy.
The Board consider that both Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson have recent and relevant Risk management financial experience in accordance with the requirements of There is a weekly review by the Executive Directors, and the Combined Code.
The Committee met three times during annually by the Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
the period to review the results of the full year audit, approve These reviews cover strategic, operational and compliance the interim results, consider the risks to the Group and the risks.
Day-to-day control is implemented by the divisional effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management teams which report to the divisional management systems, review the performance of the managing directors.
external auditors and provide guidance on the internal audit strategy.
All Committee members attended all meetings.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group at the weekly When appointing advisors for non-audit work the Group Executive Directors meetings, the monthly divisional considers the value for money, experience and objectivity management meetings and at the monthly briefing meetings required and in this respect it has used other accounting with the senior management group.
Risk issues are also 31 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3 14474Middle section :Layout 1 10 12 07 17:51 Page 11 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE reviewed regularly by the Chief Executive and the Corporate matters are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The internal audit function has co-ordinated, on behalf of The Group operates a risk management programme the Board, an annual review of the effectiveness of all the whereby key business risks are formally defined, reviewed, key controls of the business.
This includes a Group-wide and assessed at regular intervals by the managers.
This certification that internal controls are in place and are process is performed in conjunction with the Corporate operating effectively.
The internal audit function has carried Risk Manager and overseen by the Director of Risk and out additional work on selective controls as well as aligning Treasury.
An essential part of the process involves ensuring internal audit projects to verify the certification of effectiveness.
that all the key risks have clear ownership.
Managers are Where weaknesses have been identified by the managers, required to identify the key internal controls for each of the information has also been provided on the plans to improve risks they are responsible for and to identify the control such controls.
The results of the exercise are summarised owners.
The risks identified are classified and recorded in and an overall assessment reported to the Audit Committee.
The results are reported to the The review confirmed that there is a clear link between the respective divisional managing directors who in turn prioritise key risks of the business and the controls used to manage the key risks for their management teams.
The risks identified those risks.
Ownership of the controls by the managers cascade through to an assessment of the significant corporate within the business is well defined and there are no significant risks which are in turn reported to every Audit Committee weaknesses that require remedial actions to take place.
The Groups system of internal controls can only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The internal audit strategy takes into account the key objectives and can, therefore, only provide reasonable business risks of the Group and provides assurance and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal or loss.
control environment in mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
The risk management programme provides vital Health and safety information to ensure that the internal audit strategy provides The management of health and safety matters is based sufficient coverage of the critical areas of internal control.
on the Health and Safety Executives management system HSG 65.
All areas of the Group have been risk assessed Internal control and appropriate control measures implemented.
Regular The Group has complied with the Combined Code Safety Committee meetings are held throughout the Group provisions on internal control.
The Executive Directors examine, and independent experts such as the Royal Society for the and report to the Board as necessary, the procedures required Prevention of Accidents ROSPA and insurers are used.
to implement in full the guidance on internal control produced by the Turnbull Committee.
In addition, the Board has taken account of the Association of British Insurers guidelines on By Order of the Board socially responsible investment and in this respect the Managing Director of Marstons Pub Company chairs a quarterly meeting of the Groups Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
Anne-Marie Brennan Secretary The Board is responsible for the Groups system of 30 November 2007 internal controls and for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out these responsibilities throughout the period.
The principal elements of the system of internal control, which is designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, include: a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, responsibility and accountability: and a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the annual Group budget being formally approved by the Board: and a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major investment, divestment and strategic plans including capital expenditure, disposals and development programmes.
Significant treasury, cash management and investment 32 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3
