Overview Chairmans statement 3i Infrastructure provides The Company had an itsshareholders with a clear investment proposition, outstanding year.
The realisations delivering an attractive mix of our holdings in Elenia and of income yield and capital appreciation.
Anglian Water Group generated The Company exceeded its stated exceptional value for shareholders.
objectives with the highest total return in our history.
During the year, the Investment Adviser actively managed the portfolio through well-managed sales, continued focus on diversification and engagement with management teams to achieve Richard Laing growth potential.
The portfolio is well Chairman, 3i Infrastructure plc balanced and positioned to provide 10 May 2018 a sustainable mix of income yield and capital appreciation.
I am grateful to the Board for their support during this busy year and to the Investment Adviser for its hard work to achieve this outperformance.
2 Overview share, meeting our target for the He is currently Chairman of Sequoia Performance year of 7.85 pence per share.
We Economic Infrastructure Income The Company generated a total expect the final dividend to be paid Fund Limited and a non-executive return of 480 million in the year on 9 July 2018.
Consistent with our director of Crossrail Limited and was, ended 31 March 2018, or 28.6% progressive dividend policy, we are until February 2017, Chairman of onopening NAV adjusted on announcing a total dividend target Southern Water.
atime weighted average basis for for the year ending 31 March 2019 the return of cash to shareholders, The Companys Annual General of8.65 pence per share, representing farexceeding the target of 8% to Meeting AGM was held on an exceptional year-on-year increase 10% per annum to be achieved 6 July 2017.
This target rebases the over the medium term.
The NAV approved by shareholders, including dividend to a higher level aligned per share increased to 211.0 pence.
the election and re-election of all tothe income generating potential We delivered a Total Shareholder Directors to the Board.
We expect this Return TSR of 11.8% in the year AGM will be held on 5 July 2018. target dividend to be fully covered FTSE 250: 5.3%.
Since IPO, the An Extraordinary General Meeting by income and non-income cash Companys annualised TSR was was held on 14 March 2018, at from our portfolio.
11.9%, comparing favourably with which shareholders approved all the broader market FTSE 250: 7.9% resolutions, including for a share Corporate governance annualised over the same period.
consolidation of every 19 existing We have continued to monitor The Company has achieved this ordinary shares into 15 new ordinary the development of tax changes performance with relatively low shares which occurred on 15 March recommended by the OECDs Base shareprice volatility.
The share consolidation Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS maintains comparability, as far as project.
In June 2017, representatives Portfolio activity possible, of the Companys share from 68 countries and jurisdictions price before and after the payment The Company sold its two largest signed a Multilateral Instrument of the special dividend.
assets at compelling prices after which provides a mechanism for competitive processes run by the amending tax treaties for several of Outlook Investment Adviser.
New investment the BEPS recommendations including commitments totalling 525 million Following the sales of Elenia and those concerning prevention of were made in good businesses, AWG, the Companys portfolio now treaty abuse.
In order to mitigate the through bilateral transactions, and has a greater exposure to economic risk of tax leakage for the Company, follow-on investments in existing and competitive market factors than the Board intends to move the tax portfolio companies.
The Investment previously and, accordingly, we domicile and management of the Advisers review describes the should expect more volatility within Company to the UK with effect from investments made during the year, individual company performance.
We are pursuing alongside portfolio developments, However, the portfolio is now more aproject plan to achieve this, which in more detail.
balanced, with five of the assets each includes an application to HMRC for representing between 10% and 20% UK approved investment trust status.
Special dividend of portfolio value, and is diversified Steven Wilderspin stepped down across sectors and geographies.
A special dividend of 425 million as a non-executive Director on We remain confident in our business was paid on 29 March 2018, 31 December 2017.
Steven had been model and our ability to continue givingtoshareholders substantially a Board member since 20 September to deliver on our strategy and all of the uplift on opening value 2007 and was the Chairman of the objectives.
of the stakes in Anglian Water Audit and Risk Committee.
We are Group AWG and Elenia.
This was extremely grateful to Steven for his consistent with our aim to minimise Richard Laing valuable contribution to the Board return dilution to shareholders Chairman, 3i Infrastructure plc over the past 10 years.
Wendy by returning cash promptly, while 10 May 2018 Dorman took over as Chairman retaining a good level of liquidity of the Audit and Risk Committee forfuture investment.
Robert Jennings CBE was appointed Dividend as a non-executive Director on Following the payment of the 1 February 2018.
Robert brings interim dividend of 3.925 pence an in-depth understanding of pershare in January 2018, the Board investing in infrastructure with over isrecommending a final dividend 20 years experience in the sector.
for the year of 3.925 pence per 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 3
