888. com Chairmans Statement AT OUR CORE During 2018, the Group continued to deliver against its strategic objectives with a firm focus on strengthening its position in regulated markets: developing new products and technologies: and continuous improvements in the areas of compliance and safe gambling.
Brian Mattingley Chairman Post the period end, the Group received Market overview a licence to launch Casino and Poker in The global online gambling market the regulated Portuguese market from remains dynamic and fast-growing.
These marked the 12th H2 Gambling Capital, a leading industry and 13th jurisdictions where 888 holds data source, predicts that the global a licence, thereby demonstrating further online gambling industry will continue to progress against the Groups strategy grow significantly over the coming years, to diversify and expand across from a value of $50.8 billion in 2018 to regulated markets.
be worth approximately $70.3 billion in 2023 Source: H2 Gambling Capital data, Over recent years the regulator in the February 2019.
The key drivers behind UK, the United Kingdom Gambling this anticipated growth will continue to Commission UKGC, has become more be the increasing penetration and use active in promoting the improvement of mobile devices, improved internet of standards of operation across connectivity for consumers, and positive the industry, thereby enhancing the regulatory changes that open new protection of potentially vulnerable markets for online gambling.
The Group has been proactive in implementing changes to its operations Regulation continues to be a key force to support the long-term sustainability of in shaping the future direction of our Introduction our UK business.
These include enhancing industry and the Group continues to customer checks and verifications and I am pleased to report on another welcome and support the development strengthening its customer protection year of progress for 888.
During of regulatory frameworks globally that protocols and procedures.
Whilst this 2018, the Group continued to provide better protection for customers has impacted 888s revenue from the UK deliver against its strategic and greater clarity for online gambling market over the last 18 months, we are objectives with a firm focus on operators.
In some cases, such as in pleased by the recent encouraging trends strengthening its position in the UK, Italy, Denmark and Romania, witnessed in our UK business.
regulated markets: developing recent and forthcoming changes to new products and technologies: regulation and taxation could present The regulatory environment in the US and continuous improvements potential headwinds for profitability has continued to evolve and, in May in the areas of compliance and and growth.
On the other hand, new 2018, the US Supreme Court overturned safe gambling.
As a result of the regulated markets also provide significant the Professional and Amateur Sports Groups continued progress, and potential growth opportunities for 888 by Protection Act of 1992 PASPA despite regulatory headwinds providing environments where the Group thereby enabling individual states in the in certain markets during 2018, can access new customers and leverage US to regulate online sports betting.
In I am delighted to report that its extensive marketing capabilities.
The September, we were delighted to launch 888 achieved record EBITDA Group has a proven and successful track 888sport in New Jersey, marking the first in the year.
record of launching in new regulated time 888 has offered sports betting in markets and growing market share and the US and paving the way for the Group there is perhaps no better example of this to expand its sports offer on a state-bythan in Spain.
Having launched in Spain in state basis as future regulation allows.
2012, revenue from the market has grown Whilst the repeal of PASPA represents significantly over recent years to account a positive and fundamental shift in the for 13% of the Groups revenue in 2018 long-term outlook for the US market, and now represents the Groups second in January 2019, post the period end, largest individual market.
We continue the US Department of Justice released to seek opportunities to replicate this an updated opinion regarding the success in other markets as they regulate interpretation of the Wire Act of 1961.
This online gambling and, at the very end of has created some uncertainty across the the year, we were delighted to receive US market which may continue through a licence from the Gambling Authority a legal challenge to the new opinion.
in Sweden to provide online Casino, Despite this, the Board believes that the Sport and Poker services under the new Group remains well-positioned for future regulated Swedish regime, which came growth in the developing US market.
6 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report of the full extent of the Groups Itai Frieberger has made a truly Strategic progress capabilities in product development, outstanding contribution to 888 over 888s strategy is to drive growth across marketing, and customer relationship many years and, on behalf of everyone diversified geographies, product verticals management to their operations.
at the Company, I would like to thank and revenue streams both B2C and B2B.
Itai for his exceptional achievements and To achieve this, the Group continues to In March 2019, the Group was delighted dedication.
In Itai Pazner we have the balance investment across areas of the to announce the exciting and strategically ideal successor as CEO.
He is a highly business that will generate long-term important acquisition of sportsbook experienced operator with a great track value for the Groups stakeholders.
technology alongside associated risk record of success within 888.
He has management, product and trading developed a unique understanding of Underpinning the Groups growth capabilities from Dedsert Limited AT OUR CORE the Group over the past 17 years with strategy are 888s core strengths: and Dedsert Ireland Limited and its the business and has worked closely outstanding proprietary technology: affiliates together BetBright for with Itai Frieberger for a number of years, an experienced and dedicated 15 million.
This acquisition gives 888 especially throughout the past year in management team: business analytics complete ownership over technology his role as COO, which has supported expertise: customer relationship and product development across four an effective and seamless transition.
management CRM capabilities: and key online betting verticals for the first efficient marketing.
The Board believes time and will support the long-term Also following the year-end, we were that, through continuous investment and development of the successful and delighted to welcome new colleagues innovation, 888 has developed and increasingly established 888sport brand.
that are joining us from BetBright.
continues to enhance truly marketWe are confident that this acquisition The BetBright sportsbook that we leading proprietary online gaming will increase the Groups exciting longhave acquired has been developed technology.
In an industry as dynamic term prospects and differentiation in the by a fantastic team and our new and fast-moving as 888s, the Groups colleagues will significantly strengthen growing global sports betting market.
ability to develop its own products and 888s sports betting expertise and solutions remains critical to 888s ability industry know-how.
to both adapt to regulatory changes and Safer gambling achieve sustainable growth.
888s values place the safety of our Outlook New product development remains customers at the centre of all endeavours.
The Board continues to believe that, a key driver of the Groups organic The Groups primary objective is to underpinned by the Groups diversification growth and, as discussed in more ensure that all those who visit our across products and markets as well as its detail in the Business & Financial Review websites can do so with confidence technology leadership and first-class team, on page 16, was an area of significant and security.
888 is very well positioned to continue to focus during the year.
Towards the Many millions of adult customers generate value for its stakeholders.
end of May, the Group successfully around the world choose to participate launched Orbit, a new cutting edge Changes and developments to regulation in online gambling activities and the clear web-based Casino platform, which will continue to play a major role in majority of those who play our games has recorded very encouraging results dictating the future dynamics and size enjoy a safe and positive experience.
and contributed to the 8% increase in of the global online gambling industry.
However, as a responsible operator, we Casino revenue in 2018.
We have also Despite recent uncertainty arising from constantly strive to ensure that those continued to invest in our growing Sport the US Department of Justices recently for whom our games are not intended, proposition, which recorded a revenue revised opinion to the Wire Act of 1961, notably the underage and the vulnerable, increase of 6% in 2018, with an enhanced the Board believes that 888 remains well will not be drawn into the gaming and more personalised front-end to positioned and we will continue to invest environment and that those customers 888sport in the pipeline.
In early 2019, to develop 888s presence in the evolving who develop a gambling problem we commenced the phased roll out of US market.
Whilst these investments will are quickly identified and helped.
We Poker 8, a new and improved crosshave an impact on Group profitability in maintain a close dialogue with relevant territory Poker platform, which we are the coming year, the longer term growth stakeholders which include regulators, confident will provide new momentum potential for 888 in the US market, which industry bodies and charities, and we to 888poker following a challenging retains the potential to become the largest are committed to contributing to the year where revenue decreased by 37%.
in the world, remains significant.
continuous improvement of standards In addition, we are also excited about across the industry.
As well as being the forthcoming launch of 888s shared The positive momentum at the end of the right thing to do, by continuing to poker player liquidity network across 2018 continued into the first quarter conduct business responsibly we are in selected European markets.
In Bingo, of 2019 with average daily revenue up a stronger position to generate value where revenue decreased by 17%, we 10% compared to Q4 2018 reflecting for all stakeholders.
are continuing to develop our product improvements across all major KPIs.
by introducing new games and In the UK, we are encouraged by the enhancing customer personalisation improving trends we began to witness Board and people which we believe will support 888s in the latter stages of 2018 and the Board future success in what remains On behalf of the Board, I would like to is pleased to report that these have a competitive bingo market.
take this opportunity to thank each of my continued during the first quarter of the colleagues at 888 for their commitment current financial year with average daily The Group continues to explore M&A during the year.
We continue to place revenue at constant currency in our UK opportunities and partnerships that an emphasis on nurturing our creative B2C business in Q1 so far up by more will create value for its stakeholders.
and responsible culture and ensuring than 10% compared to prior year.
Overall In December 2018, we were pleased to that this is understood and shared by Group trading during the financial year announce the acquisition of the remaining all colleagues.
This has been another to date is 5% higher at constant currency 53% interest in the All American Poker dynamic year for the industry and the year-on-year.
Network AAPN, a joint venture progress made by 888 during 2018 is, established in 2013.
The acquisition 888s focus in 2019 and beyond will, as above all else, testament to the skill and represented an important strategic step ever, remain on delivering a truly satisfying dedication of our outstanding team.
towards 888 achieving its exciting longand safe experience for customers, term potential in the US market and we Following the year-end, the Group expanding the business in regulated are confident that it will create additional announced that Itai Pazner, previously markets and investing in our technology, value for our shareholders.
Chief Operating Officer COO, had people and platform, thereby supporting been appointed as 888s new Chief sustainable growth for our shareholders.
Following the year-end, in February 2019, Executive Officer CEO.
He replaced the Group announced the acquisition of Itai Frieberger who, after more than 14 a portfolio of bingo brands including years with the business, in January stood the well-established Costa Bingo brand down from his role as the Groups CEO in which previously operated as B2B brands January 2019.
I am pleased to report that, on the Groups Dragonfish Platform.
in order to ensure the smoothest possible With the acquired brands having been transition, Itai Frieberger will be remaining developed on Dragonfish, the Board Brian Mattingley with 888 as a Director of the Group for is confident their consolidation into a period of up to 12 months.
Non-Executive Chairman 888s established B2C brand portfolio 12 March 2019 will deliver synergies and growth opportunities through the application Adjusted for the migration of Cashcade Bingo.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 7
