Company Overview Chairmans Statement On behalf of the Board I would like to thank everyone at Admiral for their continued hard work and contribution to the Groups results in 2018.
I continue to be impressed by the impact on our 2018 profits.
Excluding the year profit of 4.1 million in 2017. energy, dedication and passion shown this our profits would have been slightly Turnover is now 146.0 million and by all of the 10,000 people at Admiral.
properties insured have increased by 31% to 0.87 million.
Customers buy from Our focus on customer service, our The Group has continued to grow with us either using price comparison sites distinctive culture and our contribution turnover increasing by 11% to 3.28 which continue to grow significantly, to the communities in which we operate billion.
Customer numbers increased or directly and, increasingly, using our remain at our heart.
This has resulted strongly by 14% to 6.5 million.
MultiCover offering, building on the again in a positive set of financial results The Groups share of pre-tax profit success of MultiCar.
in 2018. increased by 18% to 479.3 million, Our Financial Services business Admiral is now 26 years old and over heavily impacted by the change in Ogden continues to grow in both Personal the years has become a much bigger rate assumed 0%.
Earnings per share Loans and Car Finance, with a loans and more diverse organisation through and return on equity increased by 17% balance at year end 2018 of 300 a strong track record of organic to 137.1 pence 1% increase to 118.2 million.
We continue with our test growth.
We remain true to our values pence excluding Ogden impact and and learn approach.
The early signs and approach which are as relevant one percentage point respectively.
The are positive: we see the potential to now as they always have been.
We Groups solvency ratio remains robust at differentiate and expect this to be have a straightforward and highly 194% from 205% in 2017. an increasingly significant part of our focused strategy where we continue to business in future.
UK insurance continued to be dominated concentrate on our core market of UK by UK Motor where we grew the number insurance while taking what we know We are continuing to invest in our of vehicles we insure by 9% to over 4 to overseas markets where we are now overseas insurance businesses, which million.
We have seen some deterioration seeing some encouraging results.
At the is bearing fruit with reduced losses in the 2018 loss ratio: this has been same time, we are exploring how we can overall and our European insurers more than offset by favourable claims make use of our core skills in other areas delivering overall profits as outlined at development of past years, part of which of insurance and in the personal loans our European investor day in September.
arises due to the change in the Ogden and car finance markets in the UK.
Turnover and customer numbers are discount rate.
We have reduced our continuing to grow materially by some 2018 OVERVIEW growth in the second part of the year in 20% and 18% respectively and we now Admiral Group has delivered another line with our normal prudent approach have 0.5 billion of combined turnover positive set of results in 2018: record and focus on value rather than volume.
and 1.2 million customers outside the turnover, profit, dividend, strong return UK.
We remain optimistic in delivering We continue to invest resource in on capital, strong solvency ratio and significant long term profit for the improving our core skills in UK Motor record customer numbers.
In particular, ConTe has seen including investing in technology to results have been impacted by Ogden significant growth, now insuring 580,000 improve our efficiency and the service Personal Injury Discount Rate, this vehicles, and increased profits due to we provide to customers supporting the time in a positive way.
Following Royal loss ratio improvement.
At Elephant continuing shift to online servicing.
Assent of the Civil Liability Bill in the Auto in the US we have refined the UK Parliament just before Christmas, Household insurance continues to grow strategy and are seeing positive loss the Group has applied a best estimate but the result has been impacted by ratio development as well as improved assumption for the Odgen rate at 0%, adverse weather and subsidence events customer loyalty.
which has had a significant positive resulting in a loss of 3.0 million for 02 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information As a result of Brexit, we have established Claims management consistent positive an insurance company and an insurance feedback from customers on the service intermediary business in Spain to support they receive.
Controlled test and learn organic growth with measured expansion steps.
In our Price Comparison PC businesses, Shareholder returns we believe in Confused in the UK increased revenue and returning excess capital to shareholders.
In Confused, Rastreator and LeLynx, we continue to invest in a range of market Overall we believe that people who verticals which are growing well as well as like what they do, do it better.
investing in delivering an improved customer experience.
Our US comparison business, I have had the pleasure of visiting our Compare, has experienced challenging operations in the UK, France, Italy, Spain market conditions impacted by increased and the US along with other Non Executive competition for customer acquisition which Directors NEDs.
I have also attended pushed up marketing spend in 2018.
This is the annual Staff General Meeting with reflected in a 32.9 million impairment of approximately 6,000 people, our annual the carrying value of the Groups investment.
management off-site event and the Admiral In addition, our former Admiral CEO, Henry Business Club.
I continue to be inspired by Engelhardt, and his wife, Diane, entered into the deep commitment of our people to our an agreement to invest in Compare and we culture and serving our customers.
In all look forward to having Henry sharing his of these the Admiral distinctive culture expertise as part of the Compare Board.
is in evidence: it really is different.
Our joint venture PC business, Preminen, From the moment a new employee continues to explore new opportunities starts at Admiral, they understand with operations in Mexico, and more our commitment to putting the recently Turkey.
customer at the heart of what we do the customer, the customer, ADMIRAL CULTURE the customer.
We do try to do the Our distinctive culture which has been right thing and to continue to maintained since launch is definitely worth make it easier to do business with a further mention.
It is a key part of our us and be there at moments of competitive advantage which we work need to provide excellent service.
It can be distilled into the We are proud to be recognised as following areas, and is underpinned by a deep a Great Place to Work.
We were focus and commitment to the customer: recently awarded the Best large Highly talented team David Stevens is Company to Work For in the an outstanding leader who leads a strong, UK, as well as the tenth Best capable and experienced management Workplace in Europe and third team which engages the whole business.
in Italy amongst other similar Focus selective diversification building accolades across the Group.
Pricing data analysis lies at the heart of what we do.
Prudent reserving continue to hold a material margin in our claims reserves.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 Company Overview Chairmans Statement continued performance.
Further details are Continue the history of growth, DIVIDEND provided in the Corporate Governance profitability and innovation: Our dividend policy remains that we Report on pages 64 to 87. distribute each year the available Invest in the development and growth surplus over and above what we retain of our people we have focused on Admirals incentive schemes remain to meet regulatory requirements, the the quality and development of our distinctive, as our people are future development of our business senior management team, added shareholders in our business.
The Directors to our talent base by some external are designed to ensure that decisions have recommended a final dividend of hires, and reviewed our succession are made by management to support 66p per share 2017: 58p for the year pipeline: and long-term value growth, that the right to 31 December 2018 representing a behaviours are rewarded and that our Ensure excellent governance and distribution of 87% of our second half peoples interests are aligned with those the highest standards.
earnings and including an Ogden impact of shareholders.
Our core belief is that OUR ROLE IN COMMUNITY of 11p per share.
The 66p per share over the long-term, share appreciation includes a normal dividend of 65% of Admiral takes its role in society very depends on delivering great outcomes post-tax profits 49.6p per share and a seriously and has an active approach for our customers.
Further details are special dividend of 16.4p per share.
to Corporate Responsibility more provided in the Remuneration Report on information in the Corporate Social pages 98 to 107.
This will bring the total dividend for Responsibility Report on the Admiral the year to 126p per share, an overall Colin Holmes stepped down from the Group website and on pages 58 to 61. increase of 11%.
This represents a payBoard at the end of 2018 and I would We are proud to be Wales only FTSE 100 out ratio of 92%.
like to thank him for his excellent headquartered company and employ contribution over the last eight years.
over 7,000 people in South Wales.
The Group has delivered a Total He admirably pun intended steered Our staff play an active part in the Shareholder Return TSR of 314% over the Audit Committee and acted as communities in which we operate.
the last 10 years as illustrated in the SID Senior Independent Director and We carefully consider our impact on chart on page 105. a member of the Nominations and the community and environment, Governance Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE including factors such as the green AND BOARD CHANGES credentials of our buildings, raising During 2018 we welcomed Andy The Board recognises the need for funds for multiple charities, and Crossley as reported last year, Mike a strong corporate governance considering the impact of climate Brierley and Karen Green.
Andy and Mike framework and supporting processes change across the business.
became members of the Group Audit across the Group and believes that good Committee.
Andy was also appointed THANK YOU governance, with tone set from the top, as a non-executive chairman of EUI On behalf of the Board I would like to is a key factor in delivering sustainable Limited, the UK insurance intermediary: thank everyone at Admiral for their business performance and creating and Mike became the non-executive continued hard work and contribution value for all the Groups stakeholders.
chairman of Admiral Financial Services to the Groups results in 2018.
I would Ltd AFSL, the company in which The Board and I feel that the Board also like to thank our shareholders for Admirals loans business is written.
Karen has a good balance of experience, their support and confidence.
Most of became chair of the Audit Committee skills and knowledge to support and all I would like to thank our customers effective 14 December 2018.
They all challenge the management team and for placing their business with us.
bring substantial financial services it is supported by effective governance experience.
Owen Clarke took over the and control systems.
role as Senior Independent Director and Justine Roberts became a member of the We will continue to review all aspects Nomination and Governance committee, of diversity to ensure that we are well both effective end of 2018. prepared to guide the Group through our next phase of growth.
Annette Court Our focus areas for the Board remain to: Chairman During the year the Board and each of Continue to build on the remarkably 6 March 2019 its Committees undertook reviews of special Admiral culture and in so their effectiveness.
The conclusions doing putting our people, customers from these reviews provided useful and communities at the heart of feedback to each body on its what we do: 04 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Customer, Customer, Customer SIMPLY PUT, WITHOUT OUR CUSTOMERS WE WOULDNT HAVE A BUSINESS, SO BELOW ARE A SELECTION OF HIGHLIGHTS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS FROM THE PAST YEAR.
Going above and beyond in Claims The customer said: Nigel should be her patiently and even though the customer recognised for the way he dealt with started crying, he cheered her up by stating Our Group CEO, David Stevens, received an everything.
I never had any concerns that he what a good friend she is and that the new email from a customer recently highlighting wouldnt do what he said, he certainly made car can be in her friends memory.
The the fantastic service she received from everything easy at such a difficult time.
I customer will recommend Admiral to all Nigel in Claims Service.
Our customer was cannot thank Nigel and Admiral Insurance her friends and was also delighted as we going through an extremely difficult time at enough and will certainly be recommending originally offered her a great rate on our home where her father had become ill and Admiral Insurance to family and friends.
had entered end of life care.
This was then His manager told me this level of service is compounded by her vehicle being stolen.
Setting the standard in the industry typical of Nigel and nothing short of what Nigel recognised that this customer needed Over 1,600 cars were destroyed on New he does with any of his claims.
some extra care and attention.
He took it Years Eve 2017, in a car park in Liverpool.
Not upon himself to expedite his investigations Good customer service extends to our surprisingly, being one of the largest insurers and see the claim through to the settlement new brands as well in the UK, we received a large number of stage, something not required of him, but We had some outstanding feedback from a claims from customers caught in the blaze.
in the circumstances, he recognised that car finance customer this year.
She praised Thankfully no one was seriously injured, but this customer needed her claim process one of our agents, Gurdav, and wanted to the impact on customers was severe.
to be made as smooth as possible.
He had express how patient and understanding he managed to arrange settlement in less than As a market leader in customer service, we has been with her.
She explained that she 25 hours.
He also arranged for some flowers waived the excess and allowed No Claims found it quite emotional having to apply for to be sent to our customer sending all of Bonus on every single one of these claims finance as she was getting rid of a car which Admirals best wishes at the difficult time and we have settled almost all the claims in she had an emotional attachment to as she they were going through.
lost her close friend and took the car over Nigel, thank you!
She said that Gurdav listened to Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
