Chairmans Introduction A clear and well executed strategy I am pleased to report a year of excellent business performance across the Group.
Revenue grew by 8.0%, well ahead of the total soft drinks market performance, and profit before tax increased by 4.2% profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 4.0%.
These strong results reflect the benefits of Partnerships remain a key strategic priority Prospects a clear and well executed strategy, fantastic and we are delighted to have agreed new The long-term prospects of the business brands and a committed, talented and long-term relationships with San Benedetto remain positive and our appetite for decisive team.
and more recently Bundaberg Brewed Drinks.
improvement and growth is as strong as ever.
These partnerships will strengthen and While mindful of both continued economic The external headwinds faced by many UK complement our portfolio of Companyvolatility and the uncertainties created by businesses, including economic volatility and owned and franchise brands.
the upcoming soft drinks industry levy across Brexit uncertainty, have not abated, yet our the market, we enter this new financial year business has faced into these challenges with Dividend with confidence and clear focus.
Margins have The Board is pleased to continue with its been negatively impacted by the continued progressive dividend policy and recommend weakness in sterling, affecting our input costs, a final dividend of 11.84p per share to give a particularly sugar and packaging which are total dividend for the full year of 15.55p per priced in euros, however we understand the share, a full year increase of 8.0% on the prior importance of investing for long-term growth, year.
The final dividend is payable on 8 June as demonstrated by our ongoing investment 2018 to shareholders on the Register of John Nicolson behind our assets, infrastructure, brands and Members at the close of business on 11 May Chairman people.
All our core brands are in growth and 2018.
The ex-dividend date is 10 May 2018. the exciting new products we launched last year have gained momentum, contributing to People market share gains across our UK markets.
We are fortunate to have a great team of committed and talented individuals who In response to changing consumer bring our business strategy to life each and requirements we have extended our every day across all areas of the business.
innovation and reformulation programme I would like to recognise the commitment such that we have exceeded our original and contribution from all our employees, commitment on sugar reduction.
These and thank them on behalf of the Board actions have been taken in advance of the for delivering such a strong set of financial implementation of the soft drinks industry results.
The effort required across the whole business to deliver this Board commitment should not be underestimated We were delighted to welcome Susan Barratt and is testament to both the skill and to our Board on 28 January 2018.
Susan brings commitment of our people, as well as a wealth of valuable experience in the UK the agility and effectiveness of our customer and retail space and will support business model.
the continued development of our Board capabilities.
4 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts I am p leased to report a year of excellent business performance across the Group.
John Nicolson, Chairman A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5
