CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction from Ken Hanna 2018 has been a critical year for the Group And while the comprehensive review in which we have begun to see a return this year con rmed that our strategy on the very signi cant work that has is right, we have reduced our ROCE been done to strengthen Aggrekos expectations to a more realistic level foundations and respond to its changing of mid-teens in 2020.
A critical year for the markets.
Over the past three years we I would like to thank everyone in Aggreko have undertaken a wide-ranging agenda Group in which we have who has embraced our values and of improvements across the business.
helped to improve the business and, begun to see a return We have seen increased competition by delivering their local objectives, on the very signi cant enter our markets, in particular in the has contributed to a good financial utility market, which signi cantly performance this year.
I know that this work that has been impacted our contract rates and returns.
does not happen without commitment done to strengthen The dramatic fall in the oil price also took and discipline, and I am very grateful for its toll on the business as a result of our their support.
Aggrekos foundations previous high concentration in the oil As you read through this years Annual and gas market, which we have taken and respond to its Report, Ibelieve that you will see how steps to address over the past three years.
much stronger Aggreko is and where its changing markets, with Finally, the liquidity constraints of some ambition lies, as well as the challenges we of our key customers in the emerging an additional focus on still face and the many self-help measures markets resulted in a signi cant increase we have in place to deal with them.
the operational disciplines in the level of working capital across our project portfolio.
and cultural changes Our strategic priorities since 2015 have needed to compete.
sought to address these challenges Ken Hanna by focusing on operating ef ciency Chairman improvements and increased investment Ken Hanna in new technology to develop a more Chairman cost-ef cient eet, a more diversi ed sales strategy, and an increase in our focus on working capital management across the Group.
As a result of these changes, with an additional focus on the operational disciplines and cultural changes needed to compete, I believe that Aggreko is now a much stronger business.
With the appointment of a new CFO in January 2018, we took the opportunity to review our strategy with a particular focus on financial returns.
The original Return on Capital Employed ROCE target of around 20% that was set in 2015, before the full impact of the changes our markets were undergoing could be understood, proved to be over-optimistic.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 04
