CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Progress January March April May and ongoing Sold Liontrust Asset Paid final interim Redeemed last of our Won the Association of Investment Management shares dividend for the 2017 holdings in Liontrust Companies shareholder communications simplification received as part of the financial year achieving Investments funds awards for Best Factsheet and Website of the Trust consideration for Alliance 51 consecutive years of individual investment company Trust Investments dividend increases make it difficult to achieve profitability without significant scale.
There has been considerable consolidation within this market in recent years and the Board received a number of expressions of interest in the business.
The Board, after long and careful consideration, decided that it would be an appropriate time for this business to be transferred to new owners.
We chose Interactive Investor Limited as the two businesses are highly complementary and ATS customers, many of whom are Trust shareholders, will benefit from Interactive Investors similar flat-fee structure, as well as its increased scale.
The Board saw this as another positive step in the Trusts strategy to focus on its equity portfolio.
An important consideration for the Board was a commitment by Interactive Investor to maintain a presence in Scotland and to invest in ATS operations in Dundee.
The total price payable under the sale agreement for both 2018 was a challenging year for global equities, with most ATS and the Trusts office building in Dundee, where ATS markets falling and many active investment managers occupies most of the space, is 40.0m.
The sale requires struggling to outperform.
Like others, we trailed our regulatory approval and the price is subject to some postbenchmark, partly due to market returns during much of completion adjustments.
Although the price is less than the year having been driven by a narrow group of very large the combined value we placed on the business and our companies.
Although a number of our eight managers owned office building last year, we regard it as a fair offer.
The net some of these companies and benefited from their share proceeds of the sale will be invested in global equities.
The prices appreciating, others avoided them because they Trust, which has been headquartered in Dundee since 1888, thought they were overvalued.
will continue to be based in the city.
Our strategy of appointing a number of managers with Non-Core Investments different styles and approaches to select their best stocks In October we announced that we had agreed a conditional means we will never have a very concentrated exposure sale of certain private equity assets to global asset manager to one segment of the market.
By investing more broadly PineBridge Investments.
The sale of these private equity across companies, countries and sectors, we should avoid holdings was aligned with the Trusts previously announced the short-term performance highs and lows driven by strategy to realise value from its non-core assets in order particular market factors.
In the long run, though, we expect to focus on its equity portfolio.
The sale was completed in our portfolio to outperform the market.
The Trust remains invested in only a small number our investment approach in April 2017, the equity portfolio of private equity holdings, valued at 14.8m at the year end, has beaten its benchmark.
During the year, we made which we anticipate being realised by the end of 2019. further progress in the disposal of our remaining non-core The Trust holds mineral rights in North America which have investments.
This will enable us to focus on our equity generated revenue for the Trust for many years.
The marketing portfolio which we are confident is well positioned of these rights commenced in the second half of the year and for future gains.
as at the year end an agreement had been entered into to sell DEVELOPMENTS IN 2018 more than half of the holdings with further sales anticipated in 2019.
Alliance Trust Savings We provide more detail on page 27.
Alliance Trust Savings ATS was established in 1986 to provide a vehicle for the Trusts shareholders to hold their Long-term Debt shares in a convenient way and to take advantage of taxIn November we announced that we had issued 60m of fixed protected structures like ISAs.
Over the course of the next rate unsecured privately placed notes with maturities of 15, 25 three decades the Trust invested to allow ATS to grow.
and 35 years and coupons for each respective 20m tranche ATS is reporting an operating profit of 1.1m for 2018 2017: of 2.657%, 2.936% and 2.897%.
This was used to repay operating loss of 19.3m.
Although the business is now one some of the Trust's floating rate bank debt.
Total borrowing of the major UK share-trading platforms, the market in which facilities at the year end were 360m.
Our fixed long-term ATS operates is very competitive and high technology costs borrowing costs have been reduced from 4.3% to 3.7%.
| 4 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV June August September October November December Agreed to change Record share price Sale process of US Conditional sale of 60m of long term Sale of almost all Depositary and of 788.0p reached mineral rights started Alliance Trust Savings unsecured debt issued, of the Trusts Private Custodian entities announced reducing average cost Equity investments of long-term debt from completed Completion of winding 4.3% to 3.7% up of Final Salary Pension Scheme Shareholders After the meeting shareholders will have the opportunity to receive presentations from two of our stock pickers, Andrew In 2019 we will be considering how we can stimulate Wellington of Lyrical Asset Management and Rob Rohn of additional demand for our shares and thereby reduce the level Sustainable Growth Advisers.
We were very pleased to win the Association of Investment Companies awards for Best Factsheet and Best DIVIDEND Website for an individual investment company this year.
We We are very proud of our dividend track record and the Board will be looking at how we can further improve on the way we is delighted to continue the Trusts progressive dividend policy.
communicate with our shareholders including how we report We have now increased our dividend for 52 consecutive years.
We already hold regular meetings with This year we have used 4.2m from our 107.7m of revenue our shareholders and provide information about the Trust reserves and we retain 25 years dividend cover assuming and its performance through these meetings as well as our our current dividend level and an unchanged level of income website, factsheets and newsletters.
If you do not already from our equity portfolio.
do so, I would encourage you to subscribe to our monthly factsheet and quarterly newsletter.
THE BOARD Expenses When I joined the Board in 2016, the Directors were all male.
We finished 2018 with an Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR of One of the first things I did after my appointment was to 0.65%.
Many of our expenses are fixed in nature and when look at the skills and experience around the Board table and our net assets fall our OCR rises.
Had our average net assets decided that we needed one additional Director.
We then remained unchanged from 31 December 2017, when we set our appointed Clare Dobie.
The last two years have been very target of 0.65%, our OCR for 2018 would have been 0.56%.
busy and what I did not want to do was distract the Board from its objective of simplifying the Trust.
I believe that Our Total Expenses Ratio increased during the year from 0.58% while the current Board has the necessary skills and time in 2017 to 0.68% in 2018.
The increase was attributable to the fall in the value of our net assets, a full year of WTW's fees and to devote to the needs of the Trust, we need to improve a few non-recurring costs.
our diversity, not as a target for its own sake but to expand the range of views and opinions that feed into our decision We provide more detail on page 29. making processes.
We will be asking shareholders to approve Share Buybacks a resolution at the AGM to increase the maximum level of ordinary remuneration that may be paid to our Directors from During 2018, the Trust bought back a total of 14.0m shares 224,000 per annum to 300,000 per annum.
This change is at a weighted average discount of 5.5%, adding 5.5m to proposed to give us the flexibility to recruit additional Board the Net Asset Value for remaining shareholders.
The average members if we wish to do so, rather than to increase the discount for the year was 6.0%.
level of fees currently paid to our Directors.
While we are encouraged by an increase in demand for OUTLOOK our shares, the Board remains committed to the use of its share buyback programme to support the management I cannot end my statement without reference to Brexit.
We have considered the implications for the Trust and we have in place a contingency plan to change our Irish ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Alternative Investment Fund Manager, if required.
We do not As I mentioned in last years Annual Report, we will be consider that Brexit, regardless of how it finally materialises, proposing changes to the wording of our Investment will have a significant impact on the operation of the Trust.
Objective and Policy to reflect the Trusts current investment Despite the political uncertainties, we are clear on the direction approach.
Although we are making no changes to the way in of the Trust and that it will continue to prove a wise choice which we currently manage the portfolio, we are required to put as a core investment for the long term.
the amended Investment Objective and Policy to shareholders and we will do so at our Annual General Meeting AGM in April.
We explain the nature of the proposed changes on page 6.
Our Directors Remuneration Policy is also to be considered at the AGM and we are proposing only minor changes to this Lord Smith of Kelvin Policy.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to reduce Chairman the fees paid to the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and will keep the level of fees under review.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 5
