STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MINING WITH PURPOSE AN UNCERTAIN MACRO ENVIRONMENT In 2018, markets were destabilised by a number of factors, the most significant being the trade and political tensions between the USA and China.
The resulting trade tariffs between the worlds two largest economies introduce numerous uncertainties to the economic prosperity and stability of much of the world, as does the ongoing slowing growth in China itself and other Asian economies.
Europe was particularly sluggish, though US growth remained buoyant until the fourth quarter on the back of their administrations fiscal stimulus.
Reflecting these developments, the year saw a degree of price volatility for many of our products, albeit with a positive overall effect.
SAFETY During the year, Anglo Americans injury rate continued to trend downwards, reaching a best-ever performance level but, most disappointingly, we experienced five fatal incidents at our managed operations, all in South Africa.
Of these, two of our people died underground in our PGM and Coal businesses, reminding us of the urgency of the management teams work to address the underlying issues, Anglo American has long been known as a including by deploying technologies that will enable us to remove people from the areas of greatest physical risk.
leader in responsible mining, with numerous Our Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce will enable a more examples of progressive and bold business thorough understanding of the causes of fatal incidents, in parallel with supporting a focused programme to address decisions across many decades.
the management of fatal risks.
Stuart Chambers, Chairman Safety is always No.
1 on the Boards agenda and the Board continues to work closely with management in pursuit of our After my first full year as chairman, I am pleased goal of zero harm.
No lesser goal is acceptable.
toreport that the realities of how Anglo American doesbusiness live up to the promise.
This is a REAL BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY companythatis not only performing strongly, but thatalso thinksdeeply about its role in society, In March 2018, we launched an ambitious approach to guidedby a clearPurpose.
sustainability at our annual sustainability performance update to the investment community.
Aligned to the UNs 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, this is a key THE FUTURE OF MINING component of our FutureSmart Mining programme to As societies in so many different countries and cultures transform the physical processes of mining, and the way evolve at an ever-quicker pace, and as the demands and our Group does business and contributes to society.
expectations of an ever-changing world continue to grow, itis important that Anglo American stays at the forefront It is important that Anglo American ofbusiness sustainability.
For a global mining business such asours, this means discovering, mining, processing stays at the forefront of business andmarketing many of the essential raw materials that sustainability.
weneed to enable and support modern life and to do somoresafely, cleanly and efficiently, with due regard for Our sustainability goals relate to three global pillars: ourhost communities and countries, thereby creating to foster and sustain thriving communities: to create sustainable value for our shareholders and our many ahealthy environment: and to proactively shape policy and different stakeholders.
ethical standards to drive greater trust and transparency.
Achieving a smaller physical footprint and making a Itsaims are to innovate and deliver step-change results sustainably relevant contribution to society will require across the entire mining value chain, from mineral discovery significant change in our ways of extracting and processing to the end customer.
As such, we are going far beyond mineral-bearing ore.
It is this ambition that is the focus of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements by much of our technology and digital work, which in turn will raising the bar on what we believe society rightly expects support the clear environmental and social goals we have ofus, with clear stretch goals against which to judge our set ourselves in what I believe to be an industry-leading performance, so that we make a comprehensive and lasting approach to sustainability.
impact that will positively transform how all our stakeholders view our business.
04 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Ensuring we have the right mix of skills, experience and overall diversity around the table is so important if we are to The transformed quality of Anglo Americans portfolio under set the right tone from the top.
An inclusive Board must then Mark and his management team, and the continuous work support management in creating a more inclusive business at the asset level to further improve our overall competitive that better reflects the footprint of the Group and the diverse position in the industry, are delivering strong operational and workforces in our operating jurisdictions.
We must also financial results.
equip our Board members by exposing them to the full Most telling is the increase in physical production compared breadth of the business that they govern, and this must to six years ago, from half the number of operating assets include appropriate engagement with our stakeholders and and with substantially fewer people.
Production per proper familiarisation with the operational and commercial employee in 2018, on a copper equivalent basis, was aspects of the business.
This has been achieved through Board composition upgrading the quality of the portfolio and the successful At the end of the year, Sir Philip Hampton, our senior implementation of the Groups Operating Model to drive independent director and chairman of the Remuneration stability and performance.
Committee, retired from the Board after nine years.
I wish The cash generation of the business continues to to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Sir Philip for his strengthen the balance sheet and fund our investment extensive contribution and we are fortunate to have had the in thebusiness and our returns to our shareholders.
benefit of his financial, strategic and boardroom experience Revenue increased by 5% to $27.6 billion, with profit drawn from across a number of industries.
attributable to equity shareholders increasing by 12% We are also saying farewell to Jack Thompson, chair of to $3.5 billion.
Underlying EBITDA was 4% higher at ourSustainability Committee, at the end of the AGM in $9.2 billion and net debt decreased further to$2.8 billion, April, after nine years on the Board.
I thank Jack for the a more than $10 billion reduction over the last three years.
wealth of mining experience that he has brought to our As a result of this robust performance during a mixed discussions and for his deep personal commitment to period for product prices, the Board is recommending safetyand sustainability issues.
As a result of these a final dividend of 51 cents per share, in line with our moves, Byron Grote has taken up our senior independent policy of 40% of underlying earnings per share, taking director position in addition to his ongoing chairmanship the total dividend to $1.00 per share for the year.
Anne Stevens now chairs the Remuneration Committee and Ian Ashby will take over as chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
I am particularly pleased that the shareholder experience was THANKS such apositive one in 2018, with a Lastly, I would like to thank all of Anglo Americans employees, the senior management team and our Board Total Shareholder Return of 18%.
Their hard work and determination to continue todrive improvement and to act in accordance with our Finally on financial performance, I am particularly pleased Purpose and values are central to how this company makes that the shareholder experience was such a positive one in a real and lasting positive difference.
2018, with a Total Shareholder Return TSR of 18% set against a FTSE 100 TSR of minus 8.7% and a FTSE 350 mining index TSR of minus 4.1%.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Our 2018 Strategic Report, from pages 2 to 71, was GOVERNANCE reviewed and approved by the Board on 20 February 2019.
The role of the Board While we are pleased to report such a strong financial performance, we are also mindful of the widely held view that an excessive focus onshareholder value has led to a widening disconnect between business and the society it is meant to serve.
Thishas been demonstrated in survey after survey, showing that levels of trust in business are Stuart Chambers now at historical lows.
Chairman As chairman of a much respected FTSE 100 company with more than 100 years of history, I believe the Anglo American Board should be at the forefront in looking at how we can take practical steps to effect a shift in corporate culture in our sector in regard to our obligations to society.
As an example, we are looking intently at the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which came into effect on 1 January 2019, and against which we will report in 2020.
The Code requires that the Board listen to the views of the workforce, for instance, and takes those views into account in its decision making.
We are exploring mechanisms for how to do this more effectively, as well as what more we could be doing to engage with our stakeholders beyond the already extensive approach in place today.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 05
