LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN CONSIDERED GROWTH I am proud to report record production of 725,300 tonnes which is due to the hard work of the operations teams, particularly at Centinela and Los Pelambres.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman We are fortunate to have substantial mineral resources and we know DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, that these resources will all one day be developed.
The judgement It is now 40 years since the Luksic family acquired a stake in wehave to make is when.
We think of this as considered growth.
Antofagasta and began the process of creating one of the worlds Evidence of our conviction to growing and developing our resource leading copper mining companies.
During the years in which I have base over time has been our commitment to investing through the been at the helm of the Company, as CEO of the mining division cycle.
It is in line with this that we completed the acquisition of our from1998 and subsequently as Chairman of the Board, it has been shareholding in Zaldvar in 2015 and the construction of Antucoya fascinating to see the huge changes which have taken place, both with first production in the same year.
We continually review and inthe industry and in Antofagasta.
assess our portfolio of opportunities and expansion plans.
And as We have grown from being a regional railway business to becoming partof this process the Board recently approved the expansion of acompany focused on copper mining, developing and operating LosPelambres after the project had been fully reviewed and all large-scale open pit mines at Los Pelambres, Centinela and risksand uncertainties minimised to acceptable levels.
Construction Antucoya, as well as acquiring a 50% stake and operatorship of isnowunder way and the first phase of the expansion is expected Zaldvar in 2015.
I am proud to be able to report that this year we toaddanaverage of 60,000 tonnes of copper production per year have had record production of 725,300 tonnes which is due to the between 2021 and 2036.
The project also includes a desalination hard work of the operations teams, particularly at Centinela and plant to improve the water security of the whole mine and ensure LosPelambres.
thatthe expansion will not need to rely on local supplies.
CONSIDERED GROWTH We are also considering expanding our production at Centinela andhaving evaluated two development alternatives, have decided While our production hit record levels during 2018, global trade toadvance one of these alternatives, the construction of a second tensions led to a fall in the copper price in the second half of the year, concentrator, to the next stage of evaluation.
highlighting once again how the fundamentals of our industry are so often shaped by geopolitical circumstances.
The cyclical nature of the copper industry has fundamentally shaped the way we think about the future, focusing our attention on those elements that we can control: the pace of our developments, costs, ensuring safe and reliable operations and maintaining good community and employee relations.
6 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT PROCESS ENSURES SAFETY CREATING A DIVERSE WORKFORCE After more than two years without a fatality at one of our mines, Diversity is another big issue being tackled by the Board and I itiswith great sadness that I have to report that a contractor challenge everyone in the business to see how we can improve the suffered a fatal accident at Los Pelambres in October.
My level of diversity across our workforce.
To my mind ensuring that the condolences gotothe family of Jorge Prez Barraza.
We have most talented people are drawn to Antofagasta and want to stay here undertaken afullinvestigation of the incident and have implemented is not just theright thing to do it is good business.
While we still have the recommendations with direct oversight by senior management.
much todo, Iwas enormously proud that three women at Antofagasta werehonoured by Women In Mining as being identified as some of Safety remains the Groups top priority and this tragic incident the100most inspirational women in mining today.
provides a salutary reminder that we must always remain alert.
Itisthe duty of all of us including those with the most experience OUTLOOK to follow the rigorous procedures and processes that we have in It is our view that the copper market continues to look tight, with the place to maintain a safe working environment and to ensure that outlook for 2019 and beyond positive for copper prices.
The growing those working around us are doing the same.
After many years demand for copper as a critical element in renewable energy and inthe industry I know that people can become lulled into a false electromobility is here to stay and represents strong new sources senseof security through familiarity with the mining environment.
ofdemand, which we believe will help offset the worst excesses We allhave to guard against that and the complacency it ofcontinued global trade disputes.
With growing production, new sometimesbreeds.
developments under way and an attractive portfolio of future projects, Antofagasta is well positioned to meet this demand with its next phase GOVERNANCE: TALENT ESSENTIAL FOR THE FUTURE of considered growth.
We announced in November that Francisca Castro, who has servedas an independent Non-Executive Director since 2016, has As I said at the beginning of this letter, we have experienced many ups been appointed as chair of Antofagastas Remuneration and Talent and downs over the past 40 years, and I have no doubt that the future Management Committee, with the appointment effective in May 2019. will bring many new opportunities and challenges.
What I have learnt Ms Castro is replacing Tim Baker as chair and I would like to thank though is that by focusing on what we do best maintaining our costs, them both, and indeed all of our committee members, for their hard running safe and efficient operations, and managing our development work over the course of the year.
programmes we can ensure that Antofagasta will still be here in another 40 years.
The role of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee I would like to finish by thanking all of our employees and contractors isvital to ensuring that Antofagasta performs at its full potential.
without whose hard work none of this would be possible and our Partlythis is about ensuring that we maintain strong and shareholders for their continued support.
transparentrelations with our employees and the communities in which we work.
I am proud that we have maintained such strong employee and union relations, successfully completing a number of Jean-Paul Luksic major wage negotiations this year and recording yet another year without strikes an unbroken record.
Chairman We engage constantly with our workforce, not only in the years when there are negotiations, but every year as this open dialogue iskey to maintaining good relations and develops the trust that has built up between the Company and its employees.
TAILINGS FACILITIES FAREWELL TO BILL HAYES The Group has four tailings storage facilities, twoatLos Pelambres in central Chile and two At this years AGM Bill Hayes will not put himself forward for innorthernChile.
The active tailings dam at re-election as a director.
Bill has been a Non-Executive Director LosPelambres is monitored continuously and for12 years, of which five were as the Senior Independent Director.
Allofthe Groups facilities are Iwould like to thank Bill for all the work he has done for us and built using the downstream method, are managed hiscontribution to the success of the Company.
bydedicated teams and are reviewed twice a year byan independent tailings board comprised of highlyqualified independent experts.
The Company supports recent proposals to introduce an international independent developed standard and classification system that monitors the safety risk of tailings storage facilities and will work with the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and other bodies to ensure its success.
See page 47 for more information antofagasta.
