Chairmans statement Ashmores strategy delivers growth and value for clients and shareholders Ashmores specialist focus on Emerging As well as the impressive growth in assets Markets, its consistent three-phase strategy, managed by the network of local offices, and the Groups proven business model have the47% growth in retail AuM, to nearly Board changes delivered a strong performance this year.
US$10 billion, is particularly pleasing after a Simon Fraser retired from the Thefundamentals of Emerging Markets are in period of investment and focus on broadening Board on 31 December 2017 robust shape and together with underweight intermediary distribution relationships.
investor positioning, the investment The increasing proportion of AuM sourced Jennifer Bingham was appointed opportunities created by recent price volatility, through intermediary distribution channels to the Board as an additional and Ashmores excellent investment track serves to underline the diverse revenue Non-executive Director on record, this augers well for continued client streams that are delivered by the second 29 June 2018 demand following the record net flows that phase of the Groups strategy.
Read more Board changes A detailed report on corporate Ashmores strategy is As previously announced I am retiring from governance is providedon pages 45-47. deliveringgrowth the Board and will not be seeking re-election Since I joined the Ashmore Board in 2015, at this years AGM.
I am delighted that the market environment has changed DavidBennett is to succeed me as Chairman, considerably, with a sustained economic subject to his election by shareholders Diversity is not about reporting numbers, recovery across Emerging Markets driving at the AGM.
At Ashmore, the many facets of asset prices and capital flows.
Ashmores and knowledge of Ashmore make him an diversity support a culture that is focused strategy delivers through the cycle, and excellent choice.
on delivering performance for clients, and good progress has been made this year on aligning the interests of clients with those I would like to thank Simon Fraser, who several initiatives, which is due in no small ofthe Groups shareholders and employees.
retired from the Board on 31 December 2017, part to the expertise, commitment and Ashmores culture is bolstered further, for his wise counsel during his time on the professionalism of its employees.
I have by, and persists through, a remuneration Board.
I would also like to welcome Jennifer observed these characteristics through the philosophy that has been effective through Bingham, who was appointed as an additional regular presentations to the Board by a wide many market cycles, and which is explained Non-executive Director on 29 June 2018. variety of employees, covering investment, in more detail in the Remuneration report on I believe she will bring experience that will distribution and support functions.
This page 53. be valuable to the Board.
Michael Perman, interaction importantly has included the Ashmores company secretary for ten years, Dividend Groups distinctive local asset management retired in June and we thank him for his The Board has recommended a final dividend offices, that manage nearly US$5 billion loyalservice.
of 12.10 pence for the year ending 30 June of AuM and are generating strong growth 2018 to give total dividends per share for the consistent with the third phase of the Diversity year of 16.65 pence.
Subject to shareholders strategy, and which represent 29% of While the Groups strategy and business approval at the AGM in October, the final Ashmores employees.
model achieve diversification to reduce risk, dividend will be paid on 7 December 2018 Ashmores diversity is evident in other areas.
to those shareholders on the register on Ashmore reflects the many communities 2November 2018. in which it operates and invests.
Thelocal 12.10p per share Finally, I would like to thank my Board asset management platformsinEmerging colleagues and all Ashmore employees for Markets are managed bylocalemployees, their dedication, hard work and support during and contribute to the total of 38 nationalities Recommended final dividend my time as Chairman.
I am certain they represented by Ashmoresstaff.
will continue to deliver the Groups growth The gender balance has changed at the strategy successfully and to create further Board level, with female independent value for clients and shareholders.
Non-executive Directors representing 29% of Directors and, following my retirement at the AGM in October, this will rise to Peter Gibbs 33%, thereby satisfying the target set by Chairman the Davies report.
The position is mirrored among the 6 September 2018 Ashmore employee base with 67% maleand 33% female.
44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018
