CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRONG RESPONSIBLE GROWTH CHRIS COLE CHAIRMAN We took advantage of favourable financial Our progressive dividend policy aims Ashtead had another market conditions in the third quarter to always make dividends sustainable to increase the size of our senior debt whatever stage we are at in our business outstanding year with facility from $2.6bn to $3.1bn.
In line with that objective and our good growth again we now have access to additional low cost excellent performance, the Board is capital to invest in growing the business recommending a final dividend of 22.75p delivered in North while maintaining leverage within our per share making 27.5p for the year America and the UK.
compared to 22.5p in 2016, an increase of 22%.
Assuming the final dividend is I am delighted to report that both Sunbelt As we said in last years report, we began approved at the Annual General Meeting, and A-Plant achieved excellent results a process of share buybacks this year it will be paid on 15 September 2017 in terms of revenue, margins and profit.
as part of our declared capital allocation to shareholders on the register on Our markets remain strong and we are programme.
We spent almost 50m on 18 August 2017. constantly developing new ways to serve share buybacks as part of our commitment our customers through expansion of our to enhance shareholder value.
We will We work hard to ensure our growth locations, increased specialty businesses continue to review our best options and is sustainable.
Our capital allocation and an ever increasing range of equipment the interests of our shareholders in this priorities remain unchanged and we will available to rent.
We launched our new regard on a regular basis.
The past five-year plan, Project 2021, to optimise five years have seen 23% compound our growth strategy in the medium term We prioritise the maintaining of a balanced annual revenue growth and we expect and you can read about this on page 24. and diverse Board that reflects and continued strong growth.
Therefore, supports the breadth of our business and the Board looks forward to the medium Full-year revenue was 3,187m compared provides strong governance.
In July we term with confidence.
Underlying welcomed Tanya Fratto to the Board pre-tax profit rose 7% year-on-year at as a non-executive director and I look constant exchange rates to 793m and our forward to her contribution to the Groups EBITDA margin rose to 47% 2016: 46%.
Top-line growth continues to be the main We conducted an external evaluation driver of our profitability and total rental review of Board performance and revenue increased by 13% at constant processes last year and I am pleased to CHRIS COLE exchange rates.
Total rental revenue at report that the results of that were good.
Chairman Sunbelt grew 12% and 16% at A-Plant.
12 June 2017 Our employees are very much the engine We continue to invest responsibly in our behind our success and the Board is fleet, new greenfield sites and bolt-on enormously grateful for their efforts.
We made 15 acquisitions last Our reputation for customer service is year, the largest and most recent being such that new greenfield stores quickly Pride in New York which significantly become profitable and our employees increased our presence in that important strive daily to make the customers rental market.
Group RoI for the year was experience an exceptional one.
Their 17% and despite continued significant enthusiasm and dedication to making it investment in the fleet and acquisitions, happen the theme of this years report our leverage at 1.7 times EBITDA was continue to underpin our excellent growth.
well within our 1.5 to 2 times target leverage range.
4 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
