Chairmans In 2013, your Board chose a very clear strategic Statement route to follow.
It was a strategy rooted in our heritage as a company focused on innovative science to deliver great medicines.
We succeeded because we have been true to our Value of following the science.
We also succeeded because we put patients first.
In 2018, under the leadership of Pascal Soriot, Returns to shareholders and outlook and together with the entire talented While we returned to Product Sales AstraZeneca team, we delivered on our growth in 2018, that has yet to be reflected promise and returned a reinvigorated in our profitability, with Reported earnings AstraZeneca to Product Sales growth.
per share EPS of $1.70 representing a decline of 28% 29% at CER compared with Delivering for patients 2017.
This reflected a decline in Total Revenue We succeeded because we have been true to and the Reported Gross Margin.
Core EPS our Value of following the science.
We also declined by 19% to $3.46, also driven by succeeded because we put patients first.
This the investments we made in launching our will become increasingly important as more new medicines.
Core EPS for the final people take an active role in managing their quarter rose, however, by 22% compared health and new technologies empower them with the prior year quarter, reflecting Product to make their own health choices.
In visits Sales growth, higher ongoing Externalisation around the world, I have seen how digital Revenue and a favourable adjustment technology is transforming the way we work to deferred taxes arising from recently and has the potential to help us develop better announced reductions in Dutch and medicines, faster and with clearer benefits for Swedish corporate income tax rates.
patients and value for society.
Our guidance for 2019 is for an increase in Core EPS at CER to $3.50-3.70 as we A changing world anticipate a high single-digit percentage We also need to show leadership in responding increase in Product Sales to underpin to other ways in which our world is changing: improved profitability.
the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases, especially in poorer parts of the In light of this, the Board reaffirmed its world: growing and ageing populations: and, commitment to the progressive dividend notably, societys growing expectations of policy, with a second interim dividend for business.
At the same time, we face more 2018 of $1.90 per share, taking the unchanged immediate challenges: the uncertainties full-year dividend per share to $2.80.
surrounding the UKs impending departure from the EU, the trade dispute between the US Appreciation and China, and other countries where we see a I would like to thank Pascal and everyone at rise in disruptive politics.
AstraZeneca for all they have done to bring us to this point in our strategic journey.
Sustainable health I am looking forward to the coming years I believe that being a sustainable business is when, by continuing to push the boundaries fundamental to overcoming these challenges, of science, we can bring more medicines as well as our ability to deliver innovative to more patients and make a difference to medicines to patients and ensure people have more lives.
We are committed to our role in delivering sustainable health and maximising the benefit of what we do for patients, broader society and the planet.
Im pleased that, once again, our efforts have been recognised by, for example, the Dow Jones Sustainability and Leif Johansson World Indices and Access to Medicine Index.
Chairman 4 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report
