Chairmans statement We continue to make Change from 52-week to annual accounting period progress against our As the 2017 financial year was four days longer than the 2018 financial year, year-on-year percentages for revenue, strategy of improving costs, profit, EPS and dividend per share have been adjusted throughout this report to reflect like-for-like growth.
carbuying in the UK Operating and financial review page 28 2018 was a year of investment in Overview Team OLT and a third of The challenges to the car industry our Board.
The proportion of innovation, reflecting a long-term in the UK during this pre-Brexit women and minorities amongst perspective underpinned by our period are well reported, though our workforce has increased in concentrated predominantly in recent years, at least in part due financialstrength.
Nonetheless, to a number of well supported AutoTrader continued to innovate internal initiatives.
Total revenue grew by 7% published our Gender Pay Gap, to 330.1m, and earnings per share which though improved, still EPS grew by 15%, principally leaves us short of the goal of as a result of rising profits but eliminating the gap entirely.
The CSR report on page 43 contains more detail on the We also continued to innovate, work we are doing to continue enhancing the consumer to foster diversity.
experience and delivering more value to retailers and Board changes and governance manufacturers.
Sean Glithero stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on Dividend and capital strategy 21 September 2017.
During his We are recommending to 11 years with AutoTrader, Sean shareholders a final dividend made a huge contribution in a of 4.0 pence per share, bringing wide range of areas and under the total dividend for the year differing ownership structure.
This 15% We thank him for this increase on the previous year is contribution and wish him well underpinned by our EPS growth.
Nathan Coe, Ed Williams Our policy is to distribute Chief Operating Officer, took Chairman around a third of net income on the additional responsibility as dividends.
We use the of Chief Financial Officer on majority of surplus cash, after Seans departure.
Driving sustainable growth dividends, to buy back shares As a result, the overall Board while also reducing debt.
In Creating sustainable shareholder value over the long term, size reduced from seven 2018, we returned 148.4m to underpinned by a diverse, transparent and open culture.
Whilst very small by shareholders through dividends the standards of FTSE250 and share buybacks, bringing the companies, we remain total since IPO to 282.1m.
Board diversity OLT diversity compliant with all provisions As at 31 March 2018 As at 31 March 2018 Refinancing of the Corporate Governance On 6 June 2018 we signed into a Code.
The small Board size new five-year 400m revolving helps maintain a level of trust 2 credit facility, ahead of our existing and openness in line with our 4 7 7 facility maturity of March 2020. culture.
See the Operating and financial Annual General Meeting review section for more details.
Our Annual General Meeting Culture, diversity and inclusion AGM will be held at 10.00am Men Men We foster a culture of openness on Thursday 20 September 2018 Women Women and transparency.
The Board at 4th Floor, 1 Tony Wilson Place, spends a significant proportion Manchester, M15 4FN and we of its time on supporting the expect that all Directors will executives in maintaining and be in attendance.
Ed Williams We are committed to having a Chairman diverse workforce, including the 7 June 2018 Governance overview Board.
Women now make up 50% page 50 of our Operational Leadership 10 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
