AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 04 Chairmans statement DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY The year to 31 March 2018 was transformational for AVEVA, and we were delighted to appoint Craig Hayman as AVEVAs new CEO in February 2018.
Overview Delivering on our strategy The year to 31 March 2018 was AVEVAs strategy has been to increase transformational for AVEVA.
We revenue by growing more markets delivered a significantly improved for its products as the concept of trading performance during the year the digitalisation of industry is more and at the same time combined the widely adopted: to sell a wider range Group with the Schneider Electric of products: and to grow in industry Industrial Software business SES, verticals and geographies where the creating a new global leader in Groups market share is underweight.
We made significant progress against Trading for the heritage AVEVA Group this strategy during the year on an was strong during the year.
A sharp organic basis and the combination focus on sales execution, combined with with SES also advanced all of these a stabilisation of conditions in our Oil objectives.
The Group now has an & Gas and Marine end markets drove unmatched set of solutions and is good growth in revenue and profitability.
optimally placed to advance the SES also delivered a solid performance, digitalisation of the industrial world.
such that the combined Group achieved a return to growth on a pro forma basis.
We are proposing to maintain the final dividend at 27.0 pence per share, in line with last year, following the 650 million 10.15 per share cash return of value to AVEVA shareholders in March 2018.
We delivered a significantly improved trading performance during the year.
Philip Aiken Chairman Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 05 By adding new capabilities to AVEVAs in leading AVEVA in its next phase Also, earlier in the year, having engineering design and 3D visualisation of growth having held senior global reached his nine year tenure, Philip technologies, the combination leadership roles at PTC, eBay and IBM.
Dayer stepped down from the enables us to offer customers Board at the AGM in July 2017.
Digital Twins of their physical assets On Craigs appointment, James Kidd throughout their entire life cycle.
stepped down as CEO and became In order for the Board of the enlarged Deputy CEO and CFO.
James AVEVA Group to comprise a majority of The combination has also improved demonstrated strong leadership as independent Non-Executive Directors, AVEVAs end market and geographic CEO, being instrumental in returning an additional independent Non-Executive balance, significantly increasing our AVEVA to growth and in executing the Director will be appointed in due course.
presence in the key North American transformational combination with SES.
market and reducing our exposure to the Summary cyclical upstream Oil & Gas end market.
On James appointment as Deputy The last financial year was one of the CEO and CFO, David Ward stepped most significant years of progress in Board developments down from the Board as CFO, to AVEVAs 50 year history.
This progress There were several changes to the become Deputy CFO and Company would not have been possible without Board during the year associated with Secretary of the combined Group.
David the hard work and dedication of all AVEVAs combination with SES.
has made a significant contribution our employees, including the 2,700 to AVEVAs success.
Both James new colleagues that we welcomed to The Board and I were delighted to and David will continue to play vital the Group in March as a result of the appoint Craig Hayman as AVEVAs roles in the enlarged Group.
The Board would like to new CEO in February 2018.
Craig has express its sincere thanks for the teams more than 30 years of transformational We welcomed Emmanuel Babeau and considerable efforts in both completing product and sales leadership experience Peter Herweck to the Board in March a transformational business combination in enterprise software to draw upon as Non-Executive Directors, with and in delivering a revitalised trading Emmanuel also assuming the role of performance.
We would also like to thank Vice-Chairman.
Both are employees our customers, shareholders and other of Schneider Electric: Emmanuel stakeholders for their continued support.
is Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer, and Peter is Executive Vice President Industry.
They have added Philip Aiken AM significant management and industrial Chairman experience to the existing AVEVA Board.
