08 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Chairmans statement Your Board is committed to ensuring an attractive return on investment Dear Shareholder It is a pleasure to introduce Avasts first annual report, following the Groups entry to the public markets in May 2018.
Our stock market debut in London was one of the largest from the technology sector in 2018 and attracted global institutional investors to our shareholder base.
The con dence shown in Avast by new and existing shareholders alike has been very gratifying.
Avast made its debut by developing the first antivirus programmes in order to guard data and personal computer security.
The Company has grown into a global enterprise that helps protect the digital experience of over 435 million users worldwide, always striving for excellence with the customer as the focus of our endeavour.
Since the IPO, the Executive Team, led by CEO Vince Steckler and President, Consumer, Ondrej Vlcek, has been executing on the strategy presented to investors, producing innovative products, ensuring operational predictability and making continuous improvement across the business.
This dedication has resulted in another year of strong growth and pro tability, and further consolidated Avasts leadership position in cybersecurity.
Avast annual report 2018 09 Our stock market debut in London was one of the largest from the technology sector in 2018 and attracted global institutional investors.
John Schwarz Chairman of the Board Dividend During the year, we launched a new Share Capital structure Matching Plan that off ers employees The Board is committed to ensuring the opportunity to participate in Avasts attractive returns on the investment 8.6 success going forward.
It has been very of capital.
The Group has a strong well received.
balance sheet and has excellent and US cents predictable free cash ow generation.
I take this opportunity also to thank With a clear strategy for sustainable Vince Steckler, who after 10 successful and pro table growth, the Board will years as our CEO, has decided to retire per share continually stress core business growth, eff ective 30 June 2019.
He leaves behind targeting new adjacent markets by a company that is immeasurably stronger For the post-IPO period 15 May 2018 value-enhancing acquisitions and a than the one he joined.
Ondrej Vlcek, to 31 December 2018 focus on shareholder returns.
the Boards unanimous choice to succeed Mr. Steckler and a member of our Shareholder returns Governance executive team for many years, will be As part of the IPO process, our governance taking on a business that is positioned In accordance with the policy affi rmed structure has evolved to meet the needs well for continued success.
at IPO to make dividend payments of of a public company.
In preparation approximately 40 percent of levered Looking forward for working under the UK Corporate free cash ow, the Board recommends Governance Code, we established an As we continue our growth into new and a maiden dividend of 8.6 cents per Audit and Risk Committee, a Nomination existing markets, I am con dent we will share, to cover the period since listing Committee, a Remuneration Committee continue to create value and opportunity for on 15 May 2018 to the end of the financial and a Disclosure Committee.
The eff ective all of our stakeholders, including customers, year 2018.
This is expected to be paid in running of the Group is enhanced by partners, shareholders and employees.
June following receipt of approval at our the wealth of experience, diversity and Avast operates in attractive markets and Annual General Meeting, to be held in expertise of its members, and we are bene ts from a unique business model, a May 2019.
In future years, dividend continuing to strengthen the Board by proven ability to innovate and a dynamic payments will be made on an approximate appointing new independent directors.
one-third: two-thirds split for interim and We were pleased to welcome Belinda final dividends respectively.
I look forward to the next stage of Richards, formerly a senior corporate our journey.
Thank you finance partner at Deloitte LLP, as a new independent Non-Executive director in John Schwarz I would like to thank our employees for June 2018.
Chairman of the Board their innovation, customer focus and loyalty.
The success of any technology Two additional independent directors business is dependent on the commitment have since been appointed in 2019, of its people.
It is also thanks to the Maggie Chan Jones, formerly CMO of backing of our employees that the Avast SAP, and Tamara Minick-Scokalo, formerly Foundation is able to actively support President, Growth Markets at Pearson plc.
bene cial causes around the world.
