Chairmans review A year of further progress Last October it was with deep sadness time.
But we recognise there is still much that we announced that Anna Stewart, our to be done, particularly in terms of having Non-Executive Director, had passed away.
more women in senior roles.
We are Anna had served on the Board for five years, committed to doing everything we can to and made an invaluable contribution encourage women to succeed throughout during that time.
She will be greatly missed.
I also want to thank Bill Tame, our CEO Closing the gap will take time the of Global Growth and Operations, who engineering sector has traditionally been is retiring this summer after 16 years male dominated, and at 10% the UK has Mike Turner CBE, Chairman with the Company.
Bill has been a key one of the lowest percentages of women member of the leadership team during our engineering professionals in Europe transformation from a small cap business but we are working closely with schools, to a leading engineering company, and we universities and youth organisations to We had another year of all wish him the very best for his retirement.
encourage girls and young women to progress in 2018 19: consider a career in STEM.
We are also The loss of Anna and Bills retirement left working to increase the number of taking in 4.5 billion a gap on the Board and we were keen to women on our early career programmes, ensure that their replacements were of a of orders and again and in 2017 were a finalist in the similar high standard.
I am delighted to say Women In Science and Engineering WISE reducing our net debt.
that we found two excellent candidates apprenticeship awards.
We work closely with who were invited to join the Board as organisations like the Womens Engineering Non-Executive Directors with effect from We had another year of progress in Society and the Institute of Marine 1 April 2018.
2018 19: taking in 4.5 billion of Engineering, Science and Technology to orders and again reducing our net Kjersti Wiklund brings international help encourage women to return to the debt.
The Board is delighted therefore technology and business expertise gained sector after career breaks and keep our to recommend a 4.6% increase in the across Western and Eastern Europe and recruitment processes under regular review final dividend for 2017 8 of 22.65 pence Asia, having held a number of senior roles, to guard against any unconscious bias.
per share 2017: 21.65 pence per share.
including Director, Group Technology Were not yet as diverse as we want to be This will give a total dividend for the year Operations for Vodafone and CEO of and we acknowledge that the gender pay of 29.5 pence per share 2017: 28.15 VimpelCom Russia.
A Norwegian national, gap is still too big but were working on it.
pence per share, an increase of 4.8%.
Kjersti is currently a non-executive director Maintaining a strong health and safety The final dividend will be paid on of Laird PLC and Spectris PLC.
performance continues to be a focus for 10 August 2018 to Shareholders on Lucy Dimes also has significant experience all our businesses.
The Board was deeply the register at 29 June 2018. in technology-based industries.
A UK saddened by the loss of two of colleagues national, Lucy is currently CEO, EMEA of in our South African business, and our Governance and the Board UBM, and was previously Fujitsus CEO, thoughts are with their families and The realignment of our divisional structure UK & Ireland and an Executive Director friends.
We are determined to live up to at the start of the financial year into the of Equiniti Group.
Lucy served as a our commitment to get our people home four industry sectors of Marine, Land, non-executive director at Berendsen PLC safe every day.
Aviation and Cavendish Nuclear has between 2012 and 2017. helped us to focus on developing the Looking forward opportunities that play to our unique Valuing diversity We expect to make further progress this strengths our technical skills in what Babcocks strong culture and our year and are confident about Babcocks are highly regulated industries, our owned continued commitment to be Trusted longer-term prospects which are and operated critical infrastructure and to Deliver by our customers, our underpinned by our technical expertise, our deep customer relationships.
Each stakeholders and by each other remains unique infrastructure and a sustainable year the Board reviews the five-year hugely important to all of us across the business model which is increasingly strategy, and Im delighted to confirm Group.
A key element of this is our pledge relevant to our key customers in nonthat there is a great deal to play for over to respect people and value their diversity.
cyclical and highly regulated markets.
the coming years, both in the UK and We want to keep building a business internationally.
In particular, we expect which is about fairness, equality and to continue to build our presence across inclusion.
In the last three years the total the key markets of defence, emergency number of women working at Babcock services and civil nuclear using our unique Mike Turner CBE has increased by 24%, faster than the 10% skills to do critical work needed to keep total increase in employees during that Chairman countries and communities safe.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 12
