Strategic Report Strategic Report The Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 18 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement This has been another good year for the Japan Trust with net supplemented by a small distribution from realised capital asset value after deducting borrowings at fair value rising 22.2%, reserves, as permitted by the Companys Articles.
In future, the significantly ahead of the 7.8% rise in the benchmark TOPIX index intention is not to make distributions from capital as the Board is total return in sterling terms.
The share price increased by firmly of the view that capital growth remains the focus of the 20.2%, breaking through 800p for the first time, while the Company.
A final dividend of 0.60p per ordinary share will be Companys shares traded at a premium to NAV after deducting put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting borrowings at fair value of 2.5% at 31 August 2018.
The to be held on 6 December 2018 and, if approved, will be paid on Company was promoted into the FTSE 250 in March 2018.
14 December 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 November 2018.
Our emphasis remains on the long-term strategy however and so it is particularly pleasing to note this strong performance builds on Share Capital impressive five and ten year records for the Japan Trust.
The Company did not exercise its share buy back powers during The Managers track record of successful stock selection the year: however, your Board believes it is important that the 10.5% was a major contributor to the returns with additional Company retains this power and so, at the Annual General benefit from gearing 1.7% : further performance details are to Meeting, is seeking to renew this facility.
The Company also has be found in the Managers Report.
authority to issue new shares and to reissue any shares held in treasury for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis.
Shares are issued Investment income rose by 2.39m to 10.87m for the year, due reissued only at a premium to net asset value, thereby enhancing in the main to the continuing increase in dividends.
Expenses rose net asset value per share for existing shareholders.
by 1.26m, due mostly to higher management fees up 1.17m to 4.35m, in line with the substantial increase in net asset value.
During the year to 31 August 2018, 6.6m shares were issued at a premium to net asset value raising proceeds of 53.1m, continuing Overall revenue gain per share was 2.54p 2017 2.80p the trend of recent years.
The Directors are, once again, seeking while ongoing charges for the year reduced slightly to 0.73% 10% share issuance authority at the Annual General Meeting and 2017 0.78%.
we will continue to issue shares only when at a premium to net Portfolio Management Responsibilities asset value.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2019.
As noted in our last Annual Report, Sarah Whitley was due to retire from Baillie Gifford on 30 April 2018 after managing the Continuation Vote Companys portfolio since 1991 and has been succeeded by Our shareholders have the right to vote annually on whether the Matthew Brett as the Companys portfolio manager assisted by Company should continue in business and will have the Praveen Kumar as deputy manager.
opportunity to do so again at the Annual General Meeting to be The promise of a smooth management transition was delivered held on 6 December 2018. and the Board has been more than satisfied with the manner in Last year, the Company again received support for its which this milestone was passed and how Matthew Brett is continuation.
Your Directors still believe there remain attractive managing the Japan Trust.
opportunities in selected, well-run Japanese companies Gearing benefiting the long-term favourable outlook for the Japan Trust.
To that end, my fellow Directors and I intend, where possible, to Gearing amounted to 13% of shareholders funds at the start of vote our own shareholdings in favour of the resolution and hope the year and ended the year at 11%.
Gross borrowings increased that all shareholders will feel disposed to do likewise.
to 16.5bn 2017 11.7bn, while the sterling value of these loans in the balance sheet rose to 114.5m at the year end Board 2017 82.5m.
Given the very low cost of yen loans and the Your Board is committed to high standards of corporate positive contribution of gearing to performance during the year, governance.
In particular, it recognises the need to have a we continue to believe that borrowing to invest in Japanese balance of skills, experience and length of service, all of which equities is a sensible strategy.
forms part of our succession planning discussions during Dividend Nomination Committee meetings.
Given the above, it also believes that membership of the Board should be refreshed over The Companys objective has always been, and will remain, to time and to that end, after 12 years of excellent service, Paul achieve long term capital growth and investors should not expect Dimond CMG is standing down at the AGM.
Following a robust to receive any income.
This year the revenue reserve deficit has recruitment process earlier in the year, we were delighted to been extinguished by the net revenue return creating a revenue welcome Joanna Pitman to the Board.
Her Japanese experience reserve surplus of 475,000.
To ensure investment trust status is and knowledge will undoubtedly be of great benefit to the maintained, the revenue reserve surplus will be distributed in full Company in the years ahead.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Outlook As in previous years, our Managers have continued to find interesting companies operating in both domestic and export markets in which to invest.
The ongoing success of their bottom up approach to stock picking adds significantly to the value of the portfolio.
As a Board, we believe there remain numerous opportunities for investment in Japanese companies able to capitalise on the changes within the wider economy.
Although the Trust concentrates more on micro than macro issues, it is worth reflecting on some of the latter given that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently won the leadership contest in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party by a wide margin.
This prospectively leaves him in office until 2021 as Japans longest serving Prime Minister.
Debate about his likely legacy focuses on an expansionist economic strategy known as Abenomics and on constitutional reform covering the role of the Self-Defence Forces.
The Prime Minister has expressed his firm intention to go ahead with the previously delayed increase in the sales tax from 8% to 10%, in October 2019.
A further notable event is set for May with the Imperial succession when Crown Prince Naruhito takes over on the abdication of His Majesty Emperor Akihito.
Against the background of an ageing population and low birthrate, the labour market is extremely tight thus stimulating labour market related innovation among companies in which the Trust has invested.
Corporate governance remains an important pillar of the Governments economic programme.
Under the revised Stewardship Code, disclosure, fiduciary responsibility, increased return on equity and reform of cross-shareholding are all highlighted and we have been pleased to see something of a watershed in corporate leaders prioritisation of shareholder interests.
Your Trust continues to examine attitudes to corporate governance in the companies considered for investment.
The economy has grown for six successive years and, despite some distressing and damaging natural disasters this year, the signs are encouraging for 2019.
There also remain some political, tensions in the region, especially over US-China trade relations: however we remain positive on the outlook for investments in the Baillie Gifford Japan Trust portfolio.
Nick AC Bannerman Chairman 24 October 2018 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 03
