Chairmans letter Sir Roger Carr Chairman Our record order book Our US Combat Vehicles business further 2018 was another successful increased both the deep order book and We added to the strong order book we year for the Company production volumes on a number of hadbuilt in the previous 12 months to create programmes.
Whilst the sudden increase arecord defence order book.
Our successes underthe leadership of inpace and incline of the production ramp included thecompletion of financing for CharlesWoodburn in his first caused teething problems in the early theTyphoon and Hawk aircraft for Qatar, months, management continues to make continued strong demand for our electronic full year as Chief Executive, steady progress toward establishing systems products and the award of a strengthening the outlook production stability in support of contractfor the Hunter Class nine-frigate .
programme by the Australian government withsignificant contract wins.
tobe built in Adelaide based on the design Increased production volume associated ofthe Type 26.
This contract, won in the withthe F-35 Lightning II aircraft was faceof fierce competition, demonstrated successfully managed by the Samlesbury thecutting-edge anti-submarine warfare teamwho also celebrated the arrival of the capabilities of the Type 26 frigate already first nine aircraft to the UK squadron and ordered by the Royal Navy and the value thesuccessful completion of initial F-35 ofthe deep partnership we have built in flighttrials on the deck ofthe Queen Elizabeth Australia over the last half century.
carrier off the East Coast of the US.
I visited Australia in November to thank the The drumbeat of our submarine production Australian government for placing this order inBarrow continued to increase with the build with the Company and toured the shipyard of the first Dreadnought Class submarine inwhich the Hunter Class frigates will be built.
alongside the existing Astute boats.
The existing site was impressive and the new Recognising the increasing demands on shipyard under construction will prove to be thebusiness, our focus was to ensure the aworld-class facility when it is completed in executive team has the skillset, experience the early 2020s.
andcareer time horizon to drive change and The competitive strength of the Type 26 manage performance as the deep order wasfurther underpinned when the backlog is converted into finished product Canadiangovernment selected the design andcustomer service.
procedures remain vital to the discipline and control of the business, but people make From the challenge of building a strong thedifference.
orderbook, I was pleased that management focus in the second half of the year moved tothe task of manufacturing and delivering additional volumes of products and services.
BAE Systems 10 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our people and culture During 2019, we plan to recruit nearly 700 theCompany, and the Board has been kept apprentices and 300 graduates across our informed of this analysis.
Whilst we have During the course of the year, succession UKbusiness, a 30% increase on the previous recognised some potential Brexit impact in planning and talent management became top year and a demonstration of the work we do ourPrincipal Risks analysis see page 69, we priorities for the Executive Committee and the to nurture talent and develop high-end skills are fortunate that, given the geographic spread Board.
In that context, Charles made a series for the future.
It is vital we train the next of our operations, the near-term impacts of changes in his leadership team by generation of engineers and business leaders across the business are likely to belimited.
promotions from within, supplemented by a to develop the necessary skills needed to drive number of external recruitments, to ensure The Middle East remains unstable.
In the innovation and solve complex challenges.
fresh thinking is balanced with seasoned Gulfregion we work primarily with Oman, industry experience.
Looking forward, our emphasis will remain on Qatar, Kuwait and the Kingdom of Saudi ensuring we have a talent pipeline that reflects Arabia, respecting the importance of the These changes are now evident in the ambition, enthusiasm, ability and diversity and defence and security relationships, and the leadership of Human Resources, Australia, is committed to the values of the organisation strength and depth ofour economic ties.
Maritime sector management, submarine as to how we make money rather than simply production and the consolidation of our To that end, agreement was reached how much money we make.
UKAir business with our operations in attheend of the year with the Kingdom theKingdom of Saudi Arabia.
We continue to believe that being performance forusto extend the provision of Typhoon driven, but values led, should be at the core of supportservices.
I am pleased to say the benefits of these our culture.
changes are being seen in improved It should be recognised, however, that the performance, greater co-ordination, Company is reliant on the approval of export Our strategy increasedsharing of knowledge and licences by a number of governments in order Our strategy is regularly reviewed, but has strongerfocus on technology in line with to continue supplies to Saudi Arabia.
We are a business that Charless business priorities.
context, the current position on export isfocused on the provision of technology licensing adopted by the German government I continue to believe that in keeping with our products and services through governmentmay affect our ability to provide the required culture and tradition of building home-grown approved contracts as a world leader in the capability to the Kingdom.
We are therefore capability, we develop the skills we need in defence industry.
working closely with the UK government thebusiness by an unwavering commitment As with many UK companies, we have been tominimise the risk of any such occurrence to apprenticeships, graduate training and carefully considering and planning for any and the impact it would have on financial life-long learning.
potential impact that Brexit could have on performance, the supply chain and relationships.
2 p 21.8 2016 21.3 2015 20.9 2014 20.5 2% BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 11 Chairmans letter continued Recognising the fluctuation in demand There are few businesses with such strong Summary patterns, we seek to diversify our markets order books and with programme visibility In summary, we are pleased to have overa wide geographic area with particular extending for several decades, few defence deliveredanother year of strong performance emphasis on the US, the UK, the Kingdom companies that enjoy such a wide geographic with sales of 18.4bn and underlying earnings ofSaudi Arabia and Australia.
spread and even fewer technology and per share of 42.9p, underpinned by an order engineering businesses that have the depth backlog of 48.4bn.
In 2018, the major programme award we ofexpertise that is embedded in BAE Systems.
received from the Australian government Whilst the fundamentals of the business are forthe advanced anti-submarine warships It is against this background that I believe sound, the order backlog substantial and the willserve, over time, to add further attractive ourstrategy is sound and our emphasis on management team strong, the geopolitics in balance to our geographic mix.
operational excellence appropriate to ensure which we operate have become increasingly the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
We continue to operate in all domains of air, maritime, land and cyber.
The weighting Our Board As we look forward to 2019 and beyond ofmaritime activities within our long-term ourfocus will be on reinforcing our customer The Board continues to benefit from a business mix has increased with the relationships, providing exceptional products high-quality team that is diverse in gender, considerable orders for Dreadnought Class and services, preserving our culture, investing skill, experience, country of origin and time submarines and Type 26 frigates we have in technology and developing our people.
With Revathi Advaithi joining us at received over the last two years.
Byremaining steadfast in our approach, thebeginning of 2018, currently 28% have wewill seek to continue to deliver for all been Board members for up to three years, Our continued commitment to the air domain ourstakeholders.
36% for between three and six years, and is underpinned by recent orders for Typhoon 36% for over six years, with an average and Hawk and our decision to work in close The Board therefore has recommended tenureof five and a half years.
partnership with the UK government on the afinaldividend of 13.2p for a total of Tempest programme to develop the next 22.2pfor thefull year.
Subject to shareholder Board chemistry is excellent with candour, generation of military fighter jet.
approval at the May 2019 Annual General mutual respect and collective commitment Meeting, thedividend will be paid on 3 June providing a healthy dynamic for debate, Our US Combat Vehicles business 2019 toholders of ordinary shares registered challenge and decision making.
continuestogrow following the award on23April 2019. oftheAmphibious Combat Vehicle and Board succession planning is key to preserving Mobile Protected Firepower programmes.
this position, and to that end we have been Inthe UK the proposed joint venture with fortunate to appoint two new non-executive Rheinmetall is expected to secure the directors recently, Nicole Piasecki and Stephen production and upgrade of vehicles for Pearce, both of whom will join the Board on theBritish Army for years to come.
Nicole is a former senior executive with Boeing who has a strong track record in In Cyber we have focused investment at the strategic planning and international operations top end of the market, where sophisticated and relations.
Stephen is Finance Director of Sir Roger Carr Chairman systems formilitary grade intelligence provide Anglo American plc at present, and as such barriers to entry for competitors.
has the skills and experience necessary to In order to smooth the inevitable fluctuations succeed Nick Rose as Chairman of our Audit in demand for our products, our business Committee from the beginning ofnext year.
model has a strong service content, which Iam pleased that Nick has agreed to stay offers a reliable revenue stream and onuntil then, which will allow us to continue strengthens the partnership with our to draw on his experience and his oversight majorcustomers.
ofthe new auditor, during what is a period ofchange and geopolitical turbulence.
Thiswill also allow Stephen to develop his knowledge of BAE Systems before taking onthe chairmanship of an important Boardcommittee.
