STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER ROBUST PERFORMANCE IN A DIFFICULT MARKET ENVIRONMENT business which will add to the quality and including development of a Group-wide breadth of our current desserts offering.
strategy and set of sustainability priorities.
We will provide further information on our Our International business, while much progress in 2019 and recognise there is smaller than the UK business, is growing much more we can be doing to commit in line with our ambitious plans and passed to this agenda in the years ahead.
In China, we continued to expand alongside existing and To support both our people and our new customers, and our headcount in China communities, we put in place two new passed 2,000 during the year.
We also charity partnerships to begin in January opened a major new state-of-the-art facility 2019, with FareShare, a UK charity aimed in Shanghai, focused on salad products, at relieving poverty and reducing food as well as entering the bakery market for waste, and Action Against Hunger, a global the first time.
charity committed to ending world hunger.
In the US, we strengthened relationships In addition, we are also well aware that we with existing key customers, as well have a clear part to play within the industry as starting to work with new ones.
to work alongside retailers to reduce food Our focus remains on the Most importantly, our new Texas facility, waste.
To that end, in the UK we added long-term, sustainable dedicated to supplying a range of fresh our support to the Food Waste Reduction prepared foods for a single retailer, Roadmap, a WRAP and IGD initiative growth of our business and began production in the autumn and is to support waste reduction in the UK.
current conditions will not now building output, working hand-in-hand deflect us from that aim.
with this important new customer.
BOARD Our relatively new Board has come together OUTLOOK very well and is providing a good level OVERVIEW I have referred to market challenges in the of both challenge and support to the Overall, we made good progress with our UK and looking ahead in the short term we Executive.
At the start of April, Jane Lodge strategic plans and delivered a robust expect these to continue.
Our focus remains joined as an Independent Non-executive performance in a difficult market on the long-term, sustainable growth of our Director, and as Chair of our Audit and Risk environment.
Group revenue increased by business and current conditions will not Committee.
In July, Patrick Cook also joined 1 2.2% to 1,855.2 million, adjusted EBITDA deflect us from that aim.
We will be alert for our Board as a Non-executive Director, increased by 0.6% to 153.5 million, growth opportunities and we will continue replacing Bob Berlin.
I am delighted to and operating profit decreased by 11.0% to move ahead at pace in our two very welcome them both, and also to thank Bob to 85.6 million.
Our focus on strong cash attractive overseas markets.
for his input and support, particularly during generation continued, with net cash from our preparations for the IPO in 2017. operations up 6.1% to 99.1 million in PEOPLE the year.
DIVIDEND Bakkavor employs more than 19,000 people Conditions in the UK, our largest market, across our Group, including 17,000 in the Following payment of our interim dividend have not been easy in 2018, and we have UK.
Im proud of the way that all our people of 2 pence per Ordinary share in October had to work hard to manage the impact of work together to make great-tasting food 2018, the Board is proposing a final dividend inflation, whilst also dealing with the effects consistently and safely.
Many of them have of 4 pence per Ordinary share, payable on of economic and political uncertainty.
As in done so despite the uncertainty created for 29 May 2019 to shareholders on the register previous years, the long-term basis and them personally by the Brexit process.
This takes the total dividend strength of our key trading relationships We are very pleased to continue to support for the year to 6 pence per ordinary share.
has helped both to mitigate the impact of them as this situation develops.
We do well these factors and to create opportunity for to remember that it is their work that growth and development.
creates our results and our value and I thank them for it.
Market conditions have, however, provided openings in the year to build our position SIMON BURKE OUR WIDER SOCIAL IMPACT in key areas.
A good example is in the Chairman desserts category, where the creation of We recognise the responsibility we have additional capacity at Newark will enable as a food manufacturer to operate our 5 April 2019 us to serve our customers in new areas.
Towards the We were also delighted to complete the end of the year, we undertook a review of acquisition of Haydens Bakery: a fine our approach to corporate responsibility, 6 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report FRESH IDEAS WITH FRESH WAYS OF THINKING Georgia Papworth, Insights team, OUR VEGAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH Bakkavor UK NUT ROAST WAS A BIG HIT OVER I joined Bakkavors Insights team in 2017.
CHRISTMAS AND IS JUST ONE OF I love what we do: working with our THE TASTY PRODUCTS WE MAKE customer marketing colleagues and sharing TO MEET THE GROWING TREND our research and thoughts on emerging FOR VEGAN FOODS.
trends and exciting new food developments.
Our passion for innovative food and knowledge of what sells keeps us ahead of the market and allows us to respond really quickly to changing consumer lifestyles.
