2 Chairmans introduction Whether in the iconic projectswe will deliver, or inharnessing the advances in innovation and technology that will revolutionise our industry, we have the focus, the desire and the capability to shape theworld around us for manyyears to come.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman This transformation has been achieved in Markets This is the fourth occasion I have uncertain times.
Events in our sector have Construction or, in its widest context, written to you as Chairman of included the collapse of Carillion and the infrastructure comprises between 6% and your Board, and once again I refinancing challenges of other players, 7% of GDP in our core markets.
This spend withthe resulting impacts felt throughout has amultiplier effect delivering for the ampleased to be able to report thesupply chain.
More widely, we continue economy three times the initial investment.
on significant improvements in to experience delayed decisions caused by It shapes how and where we live, work political uncertainties in the UK and abroad.
andtravel and most importantly underpins yourCompanys performance.
These factors highlight the advantages economic growth.
accruing to a company, such as Balfour With Balfour Beatty now focused on the The financial results delivered Beatty, which is financially strong, UK, US and Hong Kong markets where in2018 demonstrate the extent disciplinedand with leading positions in Governments are planning large-scale largeand growing infrastructure markets.
to which Balfour Beatty has infrastructure investment for the coming Today, the organisation is leaner decades and with the Groups unique blend been transformed through the andmoreeffective: totally focused on of capabilities underpinned by a strong and Build toLast programme and outstandingdelivery for its customers scalable business model, we expect Balfour andonimproving performance every day.
Beatty to continue to deliver the major iconic thevalue being created.
We have achieved our target of industry projects that will shape the world we live in.
standard margins in allour businesses In the UK, given the uncertainty over the UKs andhave a growing, higherquality order exit from the European Union, our business book.
Notwithstanding our investments has been planning for all potential outcomes.
inleadership, capability, systems and We now have contingency plans in place to governance, we have continued to pay mitigate foreseeable issues and ensure we downdebt and, for the third consecutive continue to deliver on our current and future year, are recommending payment of a work commitments.
Most pleasingly, oursafety, customer satisfaction and Our people employee engagement levels have On behalf of the Board, I would like to all improved.
thankeveryone who has contributed to Thanks to the support and enthusiasm BalfourBeattys strong business performance ofouremployees in embracing Build in 2018, including our customers and supply toLastover the past four years, we chain partners, and especially our hard-working nowhaveaBalfour Beatty fit and employees.
It is their dedication and relentless readytoseizethe exciting opportunities focus on operational excellence in delivering presentedbyits markets.
for our customers that has enabled us to achieve such major strides forward.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3 We continue to upgrade the strength and We will continue to strive for Zero Harm in Dividend depth of our leadership team to ensure our 2019, embedding industry best practice The Groups financial performance ability to capture the opportunities presented andexploring all ways to learn from  the value being by our markets in a way which produces industry reviews to make conditions as createdthroughBuild to Last.
As a result, prosperity for all stakeholders, and profitable safeaspossible for our workforce and yourBoardhas felt able to recommend managed growth for the business.
thosewho work on and around our sites.
anincreasein the final dividend to 3.2p perordinary share, bringing the total Health and Safety remains at the heart of The Board dividendforthe year to 4.8p per share.
ourculture and our licence to operate.
We are Balfour Beatty is committed to building making encouraging progress towards our atrulydiverse workforce by attracting the Conclusion Safe goal, measured by Zero Harm, which is mosttalented people from all genders and This year Balfour Beatty is 110 years old.
no injury, ill health or incident caused by our backgrounds this starts with the Board.
We have an amazing history of delivering work activities.
Incident rates have continued projects for our customers and we are to reduce across our UK and US businesses I was therefore delighted to appoint Anne inrobust health for the long term.
by almost 50% in the four years of Build to Drinkwater in December 2018.
Anne brings Whether intheiconic projects we will deliver, Last.
Our Lost Time Injury Rate has reduced apowerful range of experience in strategic, or in harnessing the advances in innovation to0.15 in 2018. commercial and operational roles spanning and technology thatwill revolutionise our over thirty years in the energy industry.
There were no fatalities across our business industry, we have thefocus, the desire Her extensive knowledge of projects and in2018 as a direct result of our activities.
andthecapability to shape the world operations across multiple jurisdictions, However, I regret to report the deaths of aroundus formany years to come.
andparticularly in the US, will support twopeople working for our subcontractors BalfourBeattys increasing presence For my part, and on behalf of your Board, due to third party incursions into our work inthiskey market.
Iwant to add that we look forward with sites.
In the US, one person died as a result confidence in Balfour Beattys continuing ofa vehicle being drivenby an intoxicated Following our AGM in May, Iain Ferguson success, based on the strong framework driver entering a temporary lane closure: willstand down as Senior Independent nowin place to ensure that the business intheUK, one person died and another Director and Chair of our Remuneration delivers market leading performance.
Iain leaves with my sincere vehicle incursion into a worksite on a road thanks for his significant contribution to maintenance contract.
It isa sad reminder that Balfour Beattys current success and I wish tragedy occurs evenwhere works are carried him well for the future.
Stephen Billingham out with alltheexpected controls for risk in will become Senior Independent Director place.
Our thoughts are with the bereaved.
andAnne Drinkwater will become Chair ofour Remuneration Committee.
Philip Aiken AM Our work on treating health like safety Chairman andtreating mental health like physical healthcontinues with raising awareness oftheissues across the Group and throughourcommitment to initiatives suchasMatesin Mind.
