The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement underperformed their local benchmarks.
From a sectorial perspective, our overweight position in consumer stocks, in particularin the UK, has negatively impacted performance, whilst ourtechnology exposure in the US has driven our outperformance inthis market.
Towards our year-end some profits were realised fromthese elements of the portfolio.
Revenue and Dividends Bankers has delivered a further solid increase in the revenue account, reflecting positive currency movements, robust dividend growth and further special dividends.
This performance has enabled the Board to recommend a final quarterly dividend of 5p per share.
The Chairman of the Company, Richard Killingbeck, reports on Ifapproved by shareholders, this will result in a total dividend the year to31 October 2018 payment for the year of 19.72p, 2017: 18.60p, an increase of 6.0%.
Delivering on my forecast for the year.
Our revenue earnings per share over the same period rose to 20.78p 2017: 20.49p, an Net asset value total return increase of 0.8% increase of 1.4%.
Dividend increase of 6% to 19.72p per share The outlook for the year ahead from a revenue account perspective remains positive.
The recommended final 2018 dividend payment, if Forecast increase in 2019 dividend of 6% approved, will still accommodate a healthy transfer to our revenue reserve which, at the year-end, represented 1.2 times the cost of Performance the2018 annual dividend.
This reserve gives the Board confidence inits discussions regarding likely future dividend growth.
The main The past year has been disappointing from a net asset value NAV concern when forecasting growth for the current year remains the total return basis, with an increase of just 0.8% leading to a flat share level of sterling.
Sterlings weakness has helped our revenue account price total return over this period.
The caution that I expressed in the significantly during the past three years.
A sudden increase in the outlook paragraph of the Strategic Report last year was for the early value of sterling, albeit not our expectation, will lead to pressure on part of the year misplaced.
Yet by our year-end the effects of rising the revenue account.
However such is our level of revenue reserves US interest rates, stretched valuations of growth stocks, trade wars that I am pleased to be able to report, on behalf of the Board, a and UK politics had all played their part in turning global market forecast of dividend growth of approximately 6% for 2019. sentiment negative.
Volatility has been in evidence across global markets since early Board Changes summer as the momentum behind the tightening US interest rate As has previously been announced, I shall be retiring from the Board cycle has begun to influence market sentiment and, in particular, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Sue Inglis will highly-rated growth stocks such as those in the technology sector.
succeed as Chairman from the conclusion of the AGM.
Sue joined Inaddition, the growing number of macro concerns trade wars, UK the Board in November 2012 and became Senior Independent politics, emerging market debt levels have risen to prominence as Director in February 2015.
Sue is highly experienced and the year progressed.
Against this backdrop, companies issuing profit knowledgeable within the investment trust sector and has for warnings have been harshly treated by the markets thus manyyears advised other companies in her role as a lawyer and compounding the rising nervousness amongst investors.
Sue has a number of other non-executive roles in the sector having stepped down as Managing During the year the asset allocation structure of the portfolio has Director Corporate Finance at Cantor Fitzgerald Europe last continued the trend of the past three years, namely a reduction in summer.
I know that Sue will continue the ethos that has served theUK equity element of the portfolio, a gradual increase in the shareholders in Bankers so well over the longer term.
Julian USand a maintaining of our allocation to Japanese and Continental Chillingworth will succeed Sue as Senior Independent Director European equities.
Towards the end of the period we allocated atthesame time.
somemore monies to our China exposure, following a near 20% decline in the market, thus maintaining an overall stable allocation I am also pleased to report that Richard Huntingford joined the tothe Asian region.
Board on 26 September 2018, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Richard has been involved in the media and marketing sectors With the exception of North America and Japan, all global markets experienced negative returns during the year.
On a positive note our for more than 30 years and has held a number of executive and non-executive roles in listed and private businesses.
Further details regional managers performed well with four Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and China significantly outperforming their local of his experience can be found on page 26.
I look forward to benchmarks whilst the UK, Japan and Emerging Market portfolios introducing Richard to shareholders at the AGM.
5 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting This years AGM will again be held at Trinity House, London, EC3N4DH on 27 February 2019 at 12 noon.
Full details of the business to be conducted at the meeting are set out in the Notice ofMeeting which has been sent to shareholders with this report.
Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can also be found in the Notice of Meeting.
At the AGM, Alex Crooke and his investment team will present their investment views and how these are reflected in the portfolio.
Following the formal business of the meeting, light refreshments will be served.
The Board looks forward to seeing many of you at the AGM.
Outlook In my view it is too early to become contrarian in regard to market sentiment but it is tempting to begin to look at markets more positively.
The global economy, led by North America, remains solid, and inflationary pressures, whilst higher than a year ago, arestabilising.
The recent oil price decline has yet to feed through into inflation numbers and, whilst wage inflation remains a concern, overall inflation could fall in 2019.
If such a scenario were to be in evidence then the current momentum in interest rate rises in the UScould ease giving markets a welcome boost.
Valuations in certain sectors will continue to be a limiting factor, equally investors will need a resolution of the current trade tariff dispute to commit substantial new money to the market.
The recent low levels of volatility in markets are a phenomenon that are now likely to be confined to history and a product of quantitative easing used to stabilise markets through the financial crises.
Therefore, going forward investors will need to readjust to more historically normal high levels of volatility.
The uncertainty in the UK will remain and will be dominated by Brexitissues well beyond the end of March 2019.
Consumer and business sentiment remain as critical indicators in the year ahead for the country and for confidence to return to the UK from international investors in particular.
The UK market therefore will likelyhave another dull year.
Yet the valuation argument is becoming more compelling especially for some companies in more traditional defensive sectors with strong balance sheets and well covered dividends.
Currency markets may surprise in 2019 and, as highlighted earlier, a stronger sterling would impact our revenue account and also have a negative translational impact on the NAV from the international holdings.
Thus I fear caution remains the key watch word for global equity markets, at least for the first half of 2019.
The direction of US interest rates, the outcome of Brexit with its range of economic implications and the wider inflationary picture should all be clearer bythis time.
Ifcorporate earnings growth remains positive then valuations may become compelling, despite the late stage in the cycle in which wefind ourselves.
