14 Chairmans statement Political and economic environment To celebrate Barratts 60th anniversary the 2018 marks Barratts 60th Board wanted to recognise the contribution The Government continues to emphasise its anniversary and we are ofemployees at all levels and for the first support of housebuilding and commitment time we granted a share award to all proud to have built more to tackling the countrys housing shortage.
employees below Senior Management level, We expect that the recently updated National than 450,000 homes across giving them the opportunity to share in the Planning Policy Framework will positively future success of the Group.
the country since we began impact housebuilding and Local Authorities have made good progress in preparing and in 1958.
As the largest Corporate governance submitting local plans.
housebuilder in the UK, we The Board recognises that good, strong The November 2017 budget included further corporate governance is the foundation delivered 17,579 homes in positive measures to improve the health of for any successful company.
We continue the housing market.
Notably this included the year, the second highest to embed good corporate governance astamp duty cut for first time buyers, which annual figure in our practices through our policies, processes and has now benefited over 120,000 purchasers, procedures across our business and seek to and the 5 billion Housing Infrastructure 60 year history.
apply the provisions of corporate governance Fund to unlock new sites for development.
The Group performed well again this year While political uncertainty continues Another strong performance against key financial and operational metrics.
around the countrys departure from the New Code We also continue to lead the industry in EU and ministerial changes in the Ministry for the Group, underpinned In July 2018, the FRC issued the New Code.
quality and service and reported record of Housing, Communities and Local by an effective and well We welcome the simplicity of the New Code profits for the fourth year running.
Government, the Board remain confident and the focus on building strong, transparent in the strong fundamentals of the housing established system of At the heart of our business is a commitment relationships with key stakeholders.
We have sector and our business.
already taken steps to apply some of the main the right to expect the highest quality and Market conditions remain good with a changes introduced by the New Code.
We strive to deliver this right across wide availability of attractive mortgage John Allan Specifically we have established an employee our business.
This commitment to quality finance, which, alongside Help to Buy, Chairman forum to hear the views of our workforce and service is recognised widely across continues to support robust consumer page 71 and we have also continued to focus the industry.
The Group is well positioned with on the key stakeholders whose interests Total dividend per share a substantial year-end net cash balance, Our site managers were awarded 83 NHBC will continue to be taken into account healthy forward sales position and an Pride in the Job Awards for site management throughout the Boards decision-making experienced management team.
this year, more than any other housebuilder process pages 70 to 73.
The Nomination for the 14th year in a row.
We were also Committee will continue to enhance its 43.8p Our employees awarded the Home Builders Federation approach to succession planning and maximum 5 Star rating, meaning that over 2017: 41.7p The outstanding progress the Group has diversity, and the Remuneration Committee 90% of our customers would recommend made during the year would not have been will continue to ensure that Executive usto a friend, for the ninth consecutive year possible without the capability, passion and Directors remuneration is justified and takes the only major housebuilder with this record.
Capital Return Plan over five years dedication of our Senior Management team into account the remuneration and related These achievements are a testament to our and all of our employees, whom I would like ending November 2019 based policies for the wider workforce.
During FY19, focus on leading the future of housebuilding to thank on behalf of the Board.
We ensure we will assess our governance practices on consensus earnings by putting customers at the heart of that we reward all of our employees against the provisions of the New Code and everything we do.
appropriately so that we can recruit and the Guidance on Board Effectiveness and any retain the best people whilst motivating them changes proposed or made during the year to continue to perform year-on-year.
will be reported on in our next Annual Report 1.9bn and Accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 15 Board changes Delivering returns for our shareholders Outlook and summary As announced on 2 October 2017, Sharon In accordance with the extended Capital The Group is well positioned to continue to White joined the Board as a Non-Executive Return Plan announced in February 2018 and improve its performance in future years.
Director with effect from 1 January 2018. the continued strong financial performance I believe that we have an experienced and Sharon brings a wealth of public sector and of the Group, the Board is pleased to committed Board of Directors who continue public policy experience to the Board as recommend a final dividend of 17.9 pence to focus on promoting the success and long current Chief Executive of Ofcom and having per share 2017: 17.1 pence per share and term sustainable value of the Group.
spent 25 years working in the public sector aspecial dividend of 175.0m 17.3 pence per We will continue to monitor the balance of and Government.
Her full biography can be share.
We, subject to shareholder approval, skills, experience and knowledge on the found on page 59.
Details of the recruitment will pay both the final and special dividends Board and ensure that it remains appropriate process that we followed is set out on on 6 November 2018 to those shareholders and relevant to drive the Groups strategy page 76. on the register as at the close of business on forward over the coming years.
The total proposed dividend Having concluded nine years of distinguished for FY18, including the interim dividend of 8.6 On behalf of the Board, I thank you service, Tessa Bamford stepped down from pence per share paid in May 2018, is therefore for your continued support and look the Board on 30 June 2018.
I would like to 43.8 pence per share 2017: 41.7 pence forward to welcoming you to our AGM thank Tessa for her constant commitment per share.
on17 October 2018. and significant contribution throughout her tenure and wish her every success for Charitable giving the future.
Our objective of providing people across John Allan In the run up to the 2017 AGM, shareholders the UK with homes they want to live in is Chairman lodged votes against the re-election of aligned with our social commitment to giving 4 September 2018 Jock Lennox based on concerns that he back to the communities we live and work was overboarded and therefore unable to in.
We believe it is important to support commit sufficient time to his role at Barratt.
charitable causes both locally and nationally In order to address shareholder concerns and encourage our employees in that pursuit.
Jock decided to step down from his position Each of our divisions and offices support local as Audit Committee Chair and Non-Executive charities and the Group matches funds raised Director of Dixons Carphone plc with effect by our employees.
Over FY18 we have raised from 6 September 2018 and 31 December and donated 1.2m to various charities.
We encourage all of our employees to take paid time off work to volunteer in their local communities and I was pleased to see employees across the business spend time helping their local communities, including maintaining nature reserves and volunteering at local schools.
We continue to partner with the RSPB on how nature and wildlife are incorporated into our new communities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
