EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Together for Growth Dear Stakeholder The Group provides comprehensive vehicle management services to OEMs and The Group has delivered record commercial fleet owners, and facilitates efficient changes in ownership between all types and financial results for the third successive of vendors and buyers throughout a vehicles typical 12-15 year life span.
We saw increased volumes across all divisions, with UK Vehicle Remarketing achieving the landmark of selling over one million vehicles in the year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 17.6% to 159.5m while adjusted diluted earnings per share has increased to 11.4p, up 25.3% compared to 9.1p in 2017.
Operating profit has increased by 13.3m to 87.6m, an increase of 17.9%, reflecting the growth in adjusted EBITDA offset by non-recurring restructuring costs relating to simplification of management structures.
The automotive sector remains dynamic and continues to evolve in terms of market participants, vehicle preferences and ownership models.
The transparency and liquidity that auction provides continues to attract greater numbers of vehicles as first life ownership concentration increases.
With up to 200,000 customer vehicles on our sites at any one time we have the physical capacity to support the post-manufacture lifecycle today.
BCA has a history of BCA is performing strongly, using our innovation and providing solutions at scale to the automotive industry.
BCA first infrastructure and range of capabilities to conducted online auctions 22 years ago and provide solutions to our automotive customers.
online sales now represent 41.8% of our total volume.
Our logistics, fleet care, fleet We continue to deliver integrated efficiencies, management and storage solutions combine supporting the Groups cash generation and leading inspection and imaging technology with inventory management capabilities.
underpinning our dividend Over the last year we have enhanced our digital and data leadership team through a Avril Palmer-Baunack number of appointments.
Our agile product Executive Chairman capabilities are bringing new customer focused developments such as our Buyer app and Dealer app see page 13 to further simplify and improve the efficiency of changes in vehicle ownership.
BCA core values The Groups business objectives include Honesty & integrity Our customers Can-do attitude operating to high standards of ethical behaviour.
To support those objectives, we aim for excellence in what we do through the application of the following core values: We are honest and Our customers are at the We are open for business act with integrity heart of our business with a can-do attitude 2 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Our customers are at the heart of our to give back to the community and support business as we provide physical and digital fun challenges for charity.
You can read solutions designed to meet their needs.
more about our commitments and actions UK Vehicle Remarketing won Car Dealers across these areas in our Corporate Power 2017 Auction House of the Year, Responsibility section on pages 46 to 50.
6.5% our data science team won a BusinessCars Volume growth in the UK Techies Award and our 800 truck fleet was Dividend voted carrier of the year at the Automotive The Board is pleased to recommend Global awards.
In WeBuyAnyCar, we payment of an increased final dividend of continue to see new and repeat customers 5.95p per share.
If approved at the Annual adopting this growing channel.
Throughout General Meeting to be held on Thursday 4.3% this Annual Report are case studies which 6 September 2018, this will be paid on illustrate the strength of our relationships 28 September 2018 to those shareholders Volume growth in Europe and highlight some of the products and on the Register at the close of business services that allow us to serve effectively.
The shares will become ex-dividend on 13 September 2018.
Corporate Our good cash generation and increased BCA received approval from the UK Listing dividend demonstrate the robustness 12.9% Authority on 16 October 2017 to transfer of the growth delivered.
Volume growth in WeBuyAnyCar the listing category of its Ordinary shares to a Premium Listing.
Subsequently on An interim dividend of 2.60p per share was 18 December 2017 the shares qualified for paid on 31 January 2018.
Including this, the inclusion in the FTSE 250, FTSE 350 and total dividend for the year is 8.55p per share FTSE All-Share Indices, enhancing liquidity compared to a total of 6.75p per share last to our shareholders.
The steps we took to year, an increase of 26.7%.
codify our existing policies and the changes made to the Board Committees through the Outlook Premium Listing process are set out in the The new financial year has started well, Governance section of this report on pages with performance since the year end in 51 to 76. line with our expectations.
Across all of our markets there remains significant I would like to take this opportunity to thank addressable volume to capture: where our James Corsellis and Mark Brangstrup Watts business and consumer solutions can bring for their contributions as Directors, since the efficiency and value to new customers Companys inception to their departure on during the time a vehicle changes 22 December 2017. ownership.
We are excited by and committed to the opportunities ahead Our colleagues for BCA.
The success of BCA is made possible by committed employees who co-operate and motivate each other to deliver solutions for our customers.
Our culture is important to us and we look to provide opportunity for Avril Palmer-Baunack Executive Chairman all, encourage progression and reward 27 June 2018 success.
We also look to our employees Alternative fuelled vehicles represent 1.4% of UK Vehicle Remarketing volume up 36% Innovative Co-operation Respect Modesty We are innovative We co-operate with and We treat our colleagues We are proud of our business and our motivate each other with respect achievements but we act modestly BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3
