com Chairmans statement Strong premium growth against abackdrop of challenging market conditions David Roberts Chairman After 2017s exceptional catastrophe Beazley delivered strong experience, 2018 was only slightly less premium growth in 2018 eventful.
There were two hurricanes in against a backdrop of often the US, Florence and Michael, and two challenging market conditions, typhoons in Japan, Jebi and Trami, and in November, California experienced with premiums rising 12% to massively destructive wildfires for the $2,615.3m 2017: $2,343.8m.
Profitability was impacted by underwriting losses in We are constantly mindful of the human cost of these traumatic events and the our property insurance and need to act swiftly to help communities reinsurance business, which and companies rebuild and recover.
fed into a combined ratio for By year end we had disbursed $110m the group of 98% 2017: 99%, in funds to clients afflicted by 2018s natural catastrophes.
as well as a sharply lower investment return.
The company The board is pleased to announce a generated a return on average second interim dividend of 7.8p per shareholders equity of 5% ordinary share, in line with our strategy 2017: 9%.
Together with the first interim dividend of 3.9p this takes the total dividends declared for 2018 to 11.7p per ordinary share 2017: first interim dividend of 3.7p plus a second interim dividend of 7.4p, totalling 11.1p.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 17 I took over as chairman from Dennis Holt Neil Maidment also retired from the Board changes in March 2018.
In the six years of board, and as our chief underwriting The changes that Beazley and other Denniss tenure as chairman, Beazley officer, at the end of 2018.
Neil has insurers are grappling with are more grew premiums by 37% and generated made an inestimable contribution over than incremental and they are likely to annual shareholder returns of 31%, a his 28 years at Beazley, for which I am accelerate.
They will necessitate new quite remarkable track record.
We wish him every success ways of working, new skills and a new of the board I would like to thank Dennis and fulfilment in his future ventures.
approach to the interaction between for his leadership and wish him well for people and technology.
We announced last March that Adrian Cox planning is a critical responsibility for would succeed Neil as chief underwriting a board, and therefore in the light of I see my role and that of the board as officer, a role for which he is exceptionally planned retirements we have been being to challenge, support and advise well qualified, having run our largest looking closely at the composition of the Beazleys management as they embark division, specialty lines, since 2008.
Beazley board, taking into account the on the next phase of profitable growth.
skills required to compete successfully Two prerequisites for this growth are We also announced during 2018 that in this new environment, whilst ensuring clearly present.
In recent months, I have Martin Bride, our finance director, will we can continue to discharge our been greatly impressed with the talent of retire during 2019 and we are delighted responsibility to challenge, support individuals at all levels of the organisation.
to announce that Sally Lake, currently our and advise management.
Beazley also has significant headroom group actuary, will take over from Martin to grow in all its major markets and during 2019 following a hand over.
In March 2019, George Blunden will be geographies.
stepping down from the board, having Management changes present a twofold served for eight years as Beazleys senior This breadth of opportunity is significant.
opportunity: to bring people with new independent director, as well as Cyber insurance is perhaps too often ideas and experiences into the company participating on the audit and risk cited as a growth opportunity for Beazley and to promote capable and ambitious committee, remuneration committee not because it is unimportant but individuals internally.
It is particularly and nomination committee.
He has been because it can eclipse other promising pleasing that the strength of Beazleys an outstanding servant of Beazley, opportunities.
The growth of the US talent for which the company has long helping to guide the company through business has been broad-based and our been known has enabled many of our a period of sustained growth.
George plans for growth outside of the US equally recent senior appointments to be internal.
will step down from the board at the rely on a diverse product range.
conclusion of the annual general meeting, Beazley has thrived as a specialist insurer but we will continue to benefit from his Future growth will also increasingly for more than three decades by offering counsel as a member of the board of depend on harnessing new technologies brokers products that are well designed our Lloyds managing agency, Beazley and data sources.
Beazley took a number to meet their clients most pressing Furlonge Limited.
of measures to grasp these opportunities needs.
These skills will continue to be in 2018.
In particular, our two new IT important in the years ahead.
However I am delighted that Christine LaSala will related strategic initiatives Beazley Beazley will additionally need to show assume the role of senior independent Digital and Faster, Smarter Underwriting itself as a leader in redesigning insurance director upon Georges retirement from should help capture the benefits of new business processes in a market that is the board.
Christine has a long and technology and the availability of new ripe for structural change.
I am confident distinguished career in the insurance data sources across our product range.
that Beazley possesses the skills and industry and has already made a the vision to make this leap.
significant contribution to the board.
Following the conclusion of two three-year David Roberts terms, Angela Crawford-Ingle, nonChairman executive director and chairman of the audit and risk committee, will step down from the board at the conclusion of the 2018 accounting year and when the handover to her successor is complete.
On behalf of the board I would like to extend our considerable gratitude to Angela.
She has been an excellent chairman of the audit and risk committee and has made a significant contribution to Beazley.
