Chairmans Statement T he Group is making a substantial contribution toaddressing the housing shortage in the UK.
John Watson Chairman The availability of land in high quality locations is good, Introduction supported by a generally positive planning environment The Group is making a substantial contribution to addressing which, in turn, creates an appetite for land owners to sell.
the housing shortage in the UK.
In doing so, Bellway has Access to experienced personnel, skilled construction completed the sale of 10,307 new homes 2017 9,644, labour resource and certain materials remain a challenge, surpassing the 10,000 mark for the first time in its history, but overall, whilst these constraints may frustrate the rate of following nine consecutive years of volume growth.
I am growth, they have not prevented Bellway from delivering delighted to report that this has enabled the Group to deliver increased output year on year.
another record set of results, with earnings per share rising Bellway has continued to make the most of these by 14.2% to 423.4p 2017 370.6p.
favourable market conditions, adopting a strategy for This substantial rate of growth has been achieved whilst growth.
Our approach is to deliver value over the longmaintaining our focus on build quality and customer care term, employing strict financial disciplines with respect and this has resulted in the Group being ranked as a 5 star to land investment, whilst retaining a culture of balance home builder for the second consecutive year.
robust financial disciplines mean that growth has been This responsible approach has enabled the Group to achieved whilst managing a strong and efficient balance increase output significantly, with housing revenue rising sheet.
As a consequence, return on capital employed by 2.2 times since the pre-recession peak achieved in July remained high at 27.2% 2017 27.6% and the Group ended 2007.
At the same time as achieving this, we have maintained the year with net cash of 99.0 million 2017 16.0 million, an ongoing focus on quality and customer care, helping notwithstanding record investment in new land.
to ensure that all of our stakeholders benefit from Bellways This strong financial position ensures that Bellway retains ongoing success.
its ability to be agile and respond positively to future opportunities as they arise.
Long-term value creation Reinvestment of earnings into financially attractive land A responsible approach to growth opportunities, with a focus on return on capital employed, In many parts of the country, there is still a shortage of has led to a substantial increase in value for shareholders affordably priced, good quality housing.
As a result, there is through the ongoing growth in net asset value, together with political support, across both major parties, to increase the an increasing dividend.
supply of new homes throughout the UK.
Our dividend policy is not based upon short-term sentiment, Notwithstanding this demand-supply imbalance, buying but instead considers the capital requirements and the a new home remains an attainable prospect for many.
Groups operational capability of delivering further long-term Unemployment is at a generational low and the lending compounding growth.
environment is providing competitively priced, yet Measured on a medium-term basis, over the three years sustainable and responsible access to funds.
In addition, since July 2015, the increase in NAV of 793.0p and cumulative Help to Buy continues to bolster the new build sector, dividend payments of 330.0p per share, represents total improving accessibility of mortgage finance for those with growth in value of 1,123p per share.
This equates to an at least a 5% deposit.
The cost of servicing a mortgage is impressive annualised accounting return of 23.3%, relative affordable and despite the recent rise, interest rates remain to the 31 July 2015 NAV of 1,286p.
very low by historical standards.
Bellway p. l. c. 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report For the year ended 31 July 2018, the strong trading performance has resulted in NAV rising by 16.5% to 2,079p 2017 1,785p.
Furthermore, the growth in earnings has 10,307 enabled the Board to recommend a 12.4% increase in the homes sold final dividend to 95.0p per share 2017 84.5p, increasing theproposed total dividend for the year by 17.2% to 143.0p per share 2017 122.0p.
If approved, the total dividend will be covered by earnings three times 2017 three times.
For the foreseeable future, the Board expects to maintain adividend cover of around three times earnings.
423.4p Board changes earnings per share As previously announced, Jason Honeyman, formerly Chief Operating Officer, was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 August 2018, replacing Ted Ayres, who left the Board after a period of poor health on 31 July 2018.
In addition, I will be retiring as non-executive Chairman at the AGM on 12 December 2018 and would like to thank the Board, 143.0p our employees and all connected with Bellway for their invaluable support throughout my 40 years service with proposed total dividend per the Group.
ordinary share I will be replaced by the current Audit Committee Chair, PaulHampden Smith, who will become non-executive Chairman with effect from 12 December 2018.
I would like to take this opportunity to wish both Paul and Jason every success in their new roles and look forward to them continuing their significant contributions to the Group in the years to come.
People and supply chain It is important to recognise the efforts of all those who have worked for and with Bellway over the past 12 months.
It is their tremendous hard work and commitment that has enabled us to enjoy these record results, in a safe and responsible manner.
I would therefore like to extend the Boards gratitude to all those who have contributed to another year of outstanding performance.
John Watson Chairman 15 October 2018 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
