| Chairmans statement Ian Tyler Acknowledging the skills shortage in our The Board is pleased to recommend industry, we are pleased to have signed a final ordinary dividend of 38.0p the HBFs Home Building Skills Pledge, FY17: 32.5p per share bringing the committing us to working with others total ordinary dividend for FY18 to 57.0p in the industry to recruit and train FY17: 47.5p per share, representing a more people to the highest industry- 20% increase.
We also remain In addition, the Board intends that surplus very committed to our Bovis Homes capital will be returned to shareholders Apprenticeship Scheme and welcomed totalling a minimum of 180m or c. 134 37 new recruits in the year.
pence per share in the three years to 2020, On behalf of the Board, I would like with the first special dividend payment of to thank all of our employees for their 60m, equivalent to 45 pence per share dedication, hard work and enthusiasm in paid in November 2018. driving the operational change through the The Group expects to continue to be business and delivering a step change in strongly cash generative and the Board is I am pleased to report that our financial performance.
I would also like committed to reviewing the capacity for the Group made signi cant to extend my thanks to our subcontractors further returns to shareholders over time.
and suppliers who are such an important operational and financial and valued component of our business.
The Board I would like to thank my colleagues on The housing market Following a period of re-setting the the Board for their collective support and business, 2018 has been a year of positive The fundamentals of the new build strong individual contributions during a progress across all aspects of the Group.
housing market remain positive with progressive and successful year in 2018.
Our focus has remained on delivering high strong demand across all our regions.
I was delighted to welcome Katherine quality new homes in a controlled and Interest rates remain low by historical Innes Ker as a non-executive director in disciplined approach with a high level of standards and the mortgage market October 2018, bringing strong experience customer service.
Increasing the as a non-executive director across a supply of new homes in the UK remains range of sectors including housebuilding Customers a key priority for Government and their experience, which strengthens the Board.
support for purchasers, in particular Our customers remain at the centre through the extended Help to Buy of everything we do and delivering a We value dialogue with all our Scheme, is enabling them to access significantly improved level of customer shareholders, institutional and retail and the housing market through affordable satisfaction was our number one priority have maintained ongoing engagement mortgage finance.
I am delighted with our 4 star with our major shareholders during 2018. labour in our market remains challenging, HBF customer satisfaction rating for 2018, The Board has been very cognizant of the planning environment continues to be up from 2 star in the prior year.
We are the vote on the Directors Remuneration positive, supporting a rational market for committed to retaining this rating going Report at the 2018 AGM and was housing land.
Brexit has caused a level of forwards reflecting our high quality build, disappointed with the outcome, having consumer and wider uncertainty and we and also have a range of customer facing made significant efforts to engage with are hopeful of a positive conclusion to it in initiatives including a new Customer shareholders, institutions and proxy the near term.
Relationship Management system to be advisors beforehand.
Following the vote, rolled out in 2019 to help us build a better we have sought to better understand the Ordinary dividends and Bovis Homes.
rational for the dissent including holding a capital return plan corporate governance presentation People in October 2018.
This was well attended The Board intends to continue its strategy by major shareholders and allowed People remain a key priority and each of maintaining an efficient balance sheet discussion to further explore and answer year we are investing more in training and delivering sustainable dividends specific concerns.
and development than ever before.
In setting the level of This is managed through our Bovis Homes dividends the Board considers a range of Training Centre where a range of training factors including the extent to which the opportunities are designed for all our dividend is covered by underlying earnings employees and subcontractors.
and free cash flow, the prevailing strength of the balance sheet and general economic circumstances, with particular regard to the cyclicality of the industry.
| | 4 Strategic report Business overview Strategic report | Business overview The future We have set out our clear medium term targets to be achieved by 2020 which will return Bovis Homes Group to being a leading UK housebuilder and deliver significantly improved returns to Building shareholders.
Much progress has been made towards these targets during 2018 with a number already achieved.
on strong I continue to spend a lot of my time with Bovis Homes in the regional offices and on site with the wider leadership team and am delighted to report the positive culture that has evolved foundations over the past 18 months.
I expect 2019 to be another year of great progress with a wide range of initiatives being implemented across the business to build an even better Bovis Homes Delivering improvements for the future.
We expect to deliver a controlled increase in completions volume, maintain our across the business high level of build quality and customer service and drive forward our profitability and return on capital employed in the year ahead.
Ian Tyler Chairman Shinfield Meadows, Shinfield || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 5 5
