CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our values are central to our growth strategy Q&A with our Chairman, Simon Miller How does the Board promote the Groups values so that they contribute to the success of the business?
The Boards role is both to set an example of the behaviour that is expected of all Brewin Dolphins people and to help create and sustain an organisation in which they can excel.
By excelling, we attract and retain our clients, thereby supporting the growth strategy.
The Board now recognises each year those individuals who most clearly live by the Brewin Dolphin values of Genuine, Expert and Ambitious via the People Awards.
Recognition oftheir respective contributions help drive improvement and accelerate thesuccess ofthebusiness.
Brewin Dolphin has had a good year.
Statutory profit before tax Our culture and people increased by 18.9% to 68.5 million.
Discretionary funds Brewin Dolphins culture is driven by its people.
Over the past increased to 37.6 billion, supported by strong net inflows from five years there has been a significant investment in leadership, new business and creditable investment performance.
Total funds education and training see page 40. amounted to 42.8 billion.
These results confirm Brewin Dolphins position as one of the UKs leading wealth managers.
The Chief Part of my role as Chairman is to engage with both clients and Executives report contains a detailed account of the year and is employees, which provides me with direct feedback on how the set out on pages 20 to 23. business is performing.
This was also reflected in the high levels of engagement and satisfaction that were recorded in both the The Board is proposing a final dividend of 12p per share, to be client and employee surveys.
paid on 6 February 2019 to shareholders on the register on 11 January 2019.
The ex-dividend date is 10 January 2019.
This will Corporate responsibility CR plays an important role in both bring the total dividend for 2018 to 16.4p per share, an increase shaping and expressing the Groups culture.
During the year there of9% compared to the total dividend for 2017.
The pay ratio of was a gratifying increase in CR related activity across the Group, dividends to earnings of 76%, lies within our target ratio of 60% including volunteering, payroll giving, matched funding and small to80% of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
A fuller report on these activities is set out on page 41.
Investing in the future The Board The Group generates a healthy amount of net cash, which is The Board is committed to embedding our culture, delivering high in part returned to shareholders by way of dividends and in standards of corporate governance and ensuring appropriate part reinvested in the business.
Over the five years up to standards of behaviour throughout the Group.
30 September 2018, the total return to shareholders defined There were some changes in the composition of the Board during as the share price return plus dividends reinvested amounts 2018, including the departure in May of Finance Director Andrew to 56%.
His successor is Siobhan Boylan, who will join the At the year end, the Group held 186.2 million in cash on the Board in early 2019.
She will bring us significant and diverse balance sheet and shareholder equity of 273.7 million.
Looking experience of the financial services industry, gained at a senior ahead, the most significant planned financial investment will be level with businesses including Legal & General Investment the replacement of the Groups core custody and settlement Management and Aviva.
Further details are set out in the Chief Executives Review.
Two new non-executive directors joined the Board during the The Board is confident this will support long-term growth and year.
Michael Kellard joined in December 2017 as reported in last sustained success in the business.
Simonetta Rigo joined in June 2018.
Both new Board members bring the benefits of expertise and insight gained in other areas of the retail financial services industry and both are making a material contribution to our business.
Brewin Dolphin 18 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Looking forward Annual General Meeting AGM Markets rise and fall by their nature, and recent weakness may or This years AGM will be held on 1 February 2019 at 11:30am in may not indicate a significant change, but at times like these the Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield Street, London EC1A role of the wealth manager assumes a greater importance in the 9HQ, a few minutes walk from our head office.
Light refreshments preservation of clients wealth.
The Brexit negotiations continue will be provided after the meeting.
I do hope you will be able to to contribute to market volatility.
If you are not able to do so, please write to me with any questions or comments you may have, and I will ensure that you During the year the Board considered various acquisitions and receive a timely response.
We believe that organic growth is equally as important to delivering shareholder value.
We endeavour to maintain a regular dialogue with our shareholders, large and small, and your views are always most welcome.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Simon Miller Chairman 27 November 2018 Dividend history p 16.40 15.00 16 12.00 13.00 10.75 14 12.00 9.15 12 9.90 8.25 10 6.25 8 6 4 4.40 4.25 3.85 3.65 3.75 2 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Interim Final Dividend policy 1 The Companys dividend policy is to grow dividends in line with the Groups adjusted earnings, with a target payout ratio ofbetween 60% and 80% of annual adjusted diluted earnings per share.
The policy is intended to ensure that shareholders benefit from the growth of the Group, and it aligns with the strategic objective ofgrowing our dividend.
The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders and the benefit of providing sustainable shareholder returns.
The payout range has been adopted to provide sufficient flexibility for the Board to remunerate shareholders for their investment whilst recognising that there may at times be a requirement to retain capital within the Group.
See page 34 for an explanation of adjusted measures.
See page 38 for more information.
