Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chairmans introduction I am v ery pleased to report another strong set of results with market share, revenue, and pr ofit from operations all growing Richard Burrows Chairman Given the important role that sustainability I would like to welcome Jack Bowles, our Another strong set of results plays in securing the future of our business, current CEO Designate, to the role of Chief Welcome to our combined Annual Report we are constantly seeking new ways to further Executive effective 1 April 2019.
Yet again, I am very improve our practices.
For example, in 2018 was delighted to have been able to appoint pleased to report another strong set of results we updated our Supplier Code of Conduct such an experienced and dynamic successor with market share, revenue and profit from with new human rights provisions for from within BAT.
In his most recent roles as operations all growing.
responsible sourcing of conflict minerals, as Director of the Asia Pacific Region and as Our 2018 results demonstrate not only that well as wages, benefits and working hours.
Chief Operating Officer Jack demonstrated our combustible business is in good shape, excellent strategic leadership, delivering Additionally, good governance has long been but that our investment in a multi-category strong business growth including in vapour a key priority for the Group, and we continue approach to our potentially reduced riskand tobacco heating products, as well as to strengthen our internal compliance product business is starting to pay off with building very strong management teams.
programmes to ensure transparent and encouraging results across all categories.
His track record of innovating and his responsible corporate behaviour.
For instance, experience across so many geographies and While the business is continuing to perform in 2018 we enhanced our anti-bribery areas of the business position him extremely well, it is impossible for us to ignore investor and corruption procedures with initiatives well to build on Nicandros achievements sentiment, which has been negatively including a new third-party assessment and write the next successful chapter in impacted by the regulatory threats in the US procedure and a Speak Up hotline, which BATs history.
and competitor dynamics in the potentially empowers employees and business units reduced-risk product categories.
However, we to better identify and mitigate risks in key Ben Stevens, the Groups Finance Director are confident that our strategy of continuing compliance areas.
since 2008, will also retire from the Board to deliver shareholder returns today while in August of this year.
Throughout his Our efforts in these areas continue to be investing in the future remains the right one.
30-year career at BAT, Ben contributed an recognised externally, and I am proud to enormous amount to the Company, and as report that we were once again the only Dividends an outstanding Finance Director he has been company in our industry to have been The Board has declared a dividend of 203.0p instrumental in ensuring the Companys included in the Dow Jones Sustainability per ordinary share, payable in four equal consistent earnings growth.
On behalf of Indices prestigious World Index in 2018, instalments of 50.75p per ordinary share, the Board, I would like to thank Ben for his while our Modern Slavery Act Statement has to shareholders registered on the UK main leadership and invaluable contributions.
been ranked 3rd in the Global Governance register or the South Africa branch register FTSE 100 League Table.
I am very pleased that Tadeu Marroco will and to American Depository Shares ADS be bringing his 26 years of experience within holders, each on the applicable record dates.
Board composition and outlook the Group to the Board when he succeeds The dividends receivable by ADS holders Our Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante, retires Ben this summer.
Given his broad experience in US dollars will be calculated based at the beginning of April 2019.
During his as a Director of Western Europe, Director of on the exchange rate on the applicable eight years in the role he has grown the Business Development, and Director of Group payment dates.
business substantially, delivering consistent Transformation, the Board has full confidence and strong growth in both earnings and that he will play a key role in continuing Further information on dividends can dividends.
Importantly, he was the architect of to deliver our ambition to transform our be found on page 38 of the Financial the current strategy to transform the business Company and our industry.
Review and page 298 in the Shareholder and, with the successful establishment of information section.
Additionally, Lionel Nowell, III, retired from BATs potentially reduced-risk products the Board of British American Tobacco business and the acquisition of Reynolds A sustainable and p. l. c. with effect from 12 December 2018.
American Inc. has created a stronger, truly wellgovernedbusiness Lionel had served as a Non-Executive Director global tobacco and nicotine company.
since July 2017 and had been a member of As we work to transform our business, we On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Audit and Nominations Committees since remain equally focused on our Sustainability him for his tremendous work, which has October 2017.
Agenda, which forms an integral part of our left BAT well positioned for future growth group strategy.
Chairman BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 07
