STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am happy to report that the portfolio once again delivered strong performance over the period, with a net asset value total return of 10.0%.
Susan Noble Chairman This report covers the period from 1 October 2017 to 30 September Gearing 2018.
The Investment Manager believes that there continue to be significant investment opportunities available at attractive valuations.
While we are mindful of the extended rally in many equity markets since the Investment Performance Our accounting year to 30 September 2018 was challenging for equity global financial crisis, long-term debt remains available at interest rates which appear very attractive by historical standards.
This is despite investors as volatility returned to the markets.
Our Investment Manager recent rises in interest rates around the world.
is an active stock picker, focused on finding discounted assets rather than being driven by equity markets in general and this has proven During the year under review, the Board approved a further modest beneficial over the period under review.
As described in the Investment increase in debt, of 20m unsecured private placement loan notes Managers Review, the portfolio management team has been which were issued on 1 November 2017.
If all of the Companys particularly active this year in seeking to extract value from portfolio current debt had been deployed, gearing would have been 9.5% investments.
This has borne fruit and I am happy to report that the of net assets, based on the value of assets as at 30 September 2018. portfolio once again delivered strong performance over the period, with a net asset value total return of 10.0%, which was 4.8 percentage Discount points higher than the return of the benchmark, the MSCI All Country 1 The discount at which the Companys shares trade has generally World ex-US Index.
The drivers of this investment performance are set been in the range of 7% to 12% over the year and at the year-end out in more detail in the Investment Managers Review on page 19. was 8.5%.
Your Board and Investment Manager continue to believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders to use share buybacks Income and Dividend with the aim of limiting the volatility in the discount and this year some Returns from your Companys investments may be achieved by 4.3m shares were bought back.
A direct effect of the buybacks was to increases in the value of underlying investments, a narrowing of the increase NAV per share for remaining shareholders by 0.4% over the discount to underlying asset value, distributions or a combination of accounting year.
The Investment Manager does not specifically target returns in the form of dividends from investee companies and this While share buybacks seek to address any oversupply of shares, it is means that your Companys revenue account may vary considerably equally important to stimulate demand.
Our Investment Manager has from year to year.
The Company has substantial revenue reserves continued to make great efforts to explain the investment philosophy and also has the power to distribute realised capital profits, should both to existing shareholders and to potential investors.
the Board believe that this is warranted.
The Company has either maintained or increased its ordinary dividend for the past 30 years, Board and expects to continue to do so in the future.
In this, my first annual report to you as Chairman of British Empire Trust plc, I would like again to thank my predecessor, Strone Your Board has elected to increase the final dividend to 11.0p per Macpherson, for his long service to the Company and for his share, which will result in a total dividend for the year of 13.0p per sound guidance.
This years interim and final dividends were fully covered by net revenue earned during the accounting year.
1 Based on the share price on the relevant day as at close of business on the London Stock Exchange.
06 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information OUR EDGE 1 3 AVI specialises in finding companies which own attractive 33 years experience AVI promotes active businesses where, for one reason of long-term 2 involvement to improve outperformance following or another, the market does not corporate governance and our distinctive investment fully recognise the value of these to unlock potential style 12.1% average shareholder value.
A particular emphasis is annual performance.
put on identifying investments where there is a clear catalyst for narrowing the discount, which AVI actively looks for provides a boost to our portfolios the catalyst within a company which will narrow performance above and beyond the discount.
any underlying growth achieved in the assets.
AVI believes its strategy and investment style differentiate it from other managers in the market Please visit our website for more information: because of the following: www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting On 20 December 2017, we announced the appointment of Anja Balfour as a non-executive Director.
Anja has over 20 years I look forward to seeing shareholders at the AGM, which this year will be held on Wednesday, 19 December 2018 at 11.00am at experience in managing Japanese and International Equity portfolios for Stewart Ivory, Baillie Gifford and Axa Framlington.
Since stepping 11 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN.
down from full-time investment management in 2010, she has gained considerable experience as a non-executive director and is currently a director of Martin Currie Asia Unconstrained Trust plc, of Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc and of F&C Global Smaller Companies plc.
Susan Noble Anja is an excellent addition to the Board.
Chairman 9 November 2018 Steven Bates will be retiring from the Board following the AGM.
Steven has served on the Board for over 12 years and during that time the Company has consistently benefited from his wise counsel and full engagement, for which we thank him.
We have started a search for his successor as a Director.
Outlook After a long period where markets have been resilient or even complacent about the risks which abound in the global economy, it was perhaps inevitable that we would enter a period of greater uncertainty.
Equity and bond markets have experienced a bout of heightened market volatility since the end of your Company's financial year, which has been driven by, among other things, the threat of a global trade war, the effects of rising interest rates as quantitative easing is slowly removed, and uncertainty over Brexit.
The potential effect of these major issues is very difficult to predict.
However, our Investment Managers approach is emphatically not to second-guess markets but to seek investment opportunities in individual companies where the share price does not reflect the tangible value of a holdings underlying assets and or their prospects for growth.
While we have reported another good year, there remain many opportunities for investment returns, both within the portfolio and in the broader range of potential investments which our Investment Manager constantly monitors.
This focus on company fundamentals should provide both strong returns over the long term and a degree of protection against the vagaries of markets.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 07
