Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another year of progress for British Land This has been another year of progress for British Land, despite the ongoing political and economic volatility we have seen since the EU referendum.
Business and consumer uncertainty was further compounded by the snap General Election in June 2017, which delivered a hung Parliament.
Also of note was the decision by the Bank of England to increase interest rates for the first time in over a decade, with the prospect of more rises to come.
Encouragingly, UK economic growth has remained relatively resilient, albeit at levels lower than other major economies, and one thing that remains unchanged is Londons status as a global city in which the worlds leading organisations want to do business.
In this context British Land has performed well.
The value of our portfolio was up 2.2% with EPRA NAV up 5.7% to 967 pence as occupier and investor demand continued through the year, particularly in the London office market.
Underlying earnings per share was however down 1.1% to 37.4 pence, driven primarily by reductions due to the significant asset disposals we have undertaken over the last couple of years and lease expiries on properties that we have freed up for development.
The Board has recommended a fourth interim dividend of 7.52 pence per share, making a total of 30.08 pence for the year which, together with the movement in NAV, brings total accounting return to 8.9% for 2018.
In London Offices, we are increasingly seeing our campus strategy confirmed as a clear and differentiated attraction to potential occupiers.
Sophisticated businesses today understand that the way their people want to live their lives is changing and that the worlds of work and leisure are blurring.
They also understand that in order to attract the best talent they need to provide high quality, well connected offices in places people want to spend time before, during and after the working day.
This is exactly what our mixed use London campuses deliver.
We are increasingly Evidence of the success of this strategy this year included the largest pre-let in the traditional West End for over 20 years at 1 Triton Square seeing our campus in Regents Place, to the media company Dentsu Aegis.
Elsewhere, strategy confirmed as a Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Europe SMBCE signed a pre-let for the lower three floors of 100 Liverpool Street, where we clear and differentiated are developing what we believe to be one of the best connected and attraction.
smartest new buildings in London, right next door to a new Crossrail station.
This development is part of our broader transformation at Broadgate where progress this year has been significant you can read more about this on page 18.
Overall, this has been an excellent year for leasing, our London Office portfolio is 97% occupied and valuations improved 4.5% evidence that we continue to provide our customers with the space they need.
4 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Dividends In these more volatile times, this level of thoughtful activity, the Full year dividends pence per share resilience of our strategy and our diverse, high quality portfolio set British Land apart.
We are mindful of our short term operating 2018 30.08 environment, but our strategy is aligned to long term trends.
Our 2017 29.20 experienced management team, the expertise of our people and the increasingly complex insights we collect about how people use our 2016 28.36 places allow us to continually evolve our approach to meet customer 2015 27.68 needs and work to position British Land to thrive in the future.
2014 27.00 As a result of our confidence in our strategic direction and outlook we have proposed a first quarter dividend of 7.75 pence per share and 31.00 pence for the year ending 31 March 2019, representing a further 3% increase on our 2018 dividend.
We continue to be recognised for our leading stance on sustainability, awarded five stars in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark for the second year and ranked in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index for Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 5 Star for the second consecutive year.
We have a 2020 sustainability strategy which is aligned to our corporate strategy, outlined both in this Report on page 24 There is no doubt the retail sector continues to go through a period and in our separately published Sustainability Accounts.
As part of challenge and rapid change.
The structural reasons for this are of our core purpose, we proactively design and enhance buildings complex and well documented, not least the rapid growth of online and spaces for the health, wellbeing and productivity of everyone shopping.
This year though, these challenges have come into sharper who uses them, including our employees, customers and focus as a number of operators have entered into company voluntary local communities.
In many cases, retailers have seen the challenges caused by long term structural changes compounded by shorter We support the recommendations of the Task Force on Climateterm operational issues such as cost inflation, business rates related Financial Disclosures and manage our portfolio for climate increases and more fragile consumer confidence.
Carbon intensity across our portfolio has reduced by 54% of physical retail space, British Land has been focused on versus our 2009 baseline, through the National Grids decarbonisation understanding these long term changes for several years.
We help and our own efficiency improvements.
With this 2020 target almost our customers to respond to changes and seek to provide the space achieved, we have also gone further, committing to source all our that helps them succeed, and this year we continued to be proactive.
electricity from renewable sources and partnering with RE100.
For example, we completed the substantial refurbishment of Meadowhall, enhancing its status as a regional retail destination Throughout the year Board members visited a number of key assets centre which is fit for the future, and disposed of 419 million of retail and held a strategy offsite with key members of the executive team properties that we did not feel could play a role in the future shape focused on opportunities which will drive our business in the future.
The overall shape and size of the Retail portfolio We welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors who bring a is something we remain focused on going forward as this market wealth of varied experience to our Board: they are profiled on pages continues to evolve.
58 to 91 along with more detail about the structure and activity of our Board and Committees.
During the year, Lucinda Bell stepped down Despite these challenges, leasing activity in our Retail business this from the Board and from her role as Chief Financial Officer.
Lucinda year has been good, with 1.2 million sq ft of space let or renewed, had been with British Land for over 25 years, and her achievements at rates well ahead of estimated rental value ERV.
In addition, our and contribution to our business over that time are significant.
She Retail portfolio remains virtually full with 98% occupancy.
These will be missed and I and the Board wish her well in the future.
We are impressive rental and occupancy levels are testament to the quality delighted to welcome Simon Carter back to British Land as our Chief of our offer and our belief that the best physical retail space continues Financial Officer.
Simon has a wealth of experience in property and to play an important role in enabling retailers to succeed.
We are not will make a real contribution to our business.
complacent however, and remain focused on how we continue to respond to the ongoing evolution of the retail market.
Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to the people at British Land, our partners and everyone who contributes to the success of our We continually assess how best to deploy our capital based on business.
They have all played a role in our progress this year, much the conditions prevailing at the time.
We do this in the context of of which is covered in this Report I hope you find it useful.
shareholder value and the need to fund our development pipeline, manage leverage and undertake appropriate acquisition and disposal activity.
The NAV discount that emerged in our share price in the period after the EU referendum has persisted.
This was a key factor influencing John Gildersleeve our decision to undertake a 300 million share buyback following Non-Executive Chairman the sale of The Leadenhall Building.
The buyback was completed in February.
This disciplined approach to shareholder returns and the For the Chairmans governance review, see page 62. use of capital will remain a focus for the Board going forward.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5
