STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT John Daly Chairman To deliver another year of excellent financial DIVIDEND PER SHARE Review of the year and strategic progress the team has I am delighted to have the opportunity pence overcome significant macro challenges.
to write to you as we report our results.
This includes the well-publicised shortage 2018 was my first full year as Chairman, of carbon dioxide that caused disruption following my appointment in September industry-wide, as well as the introduction 2017, and it has been a pleasure to work of soft drink levies in the UK and Ireland, with Simon, Mat and the rest of the 28.2p and retailer bad debt.
Our 2018 results have delivered another year of Capital return revenue and adjusted EBIT growth, with As a result of the financial progress made revenue increasing 5.1% to 1,503.6m this year, the Board has proposed a final and adjusted EBIT increasing 5.4% to 28.2 dividend of 20.3p, an increase of 5.2% on 206.0m.
Statutory profit after tax increased the 2017 dividend.
The total dividend for the 26.5 by 4.9% as we incurred one-off costs, year is 28.2p, representing an increase of including provisions related to our strategic 24.5 6.4% on last year.
The Board is committed supply chain project and the closure of to a progressive dividend policy, which the Norwich factory, which is scheduled has returned over 585m to shareholders to close towards the end of 2019. since flotation.
During 2018, the Executive team has Corporate culture made further progress in executing the The Board and Executive team have strategy, including: a vital role to play in shaping and Managing significant change related embedding a healthy corporate culture, to the business capability programme.
and this continued to be a focus in 2018.
The Board visited the Rugby site this Our responsible, inclusive and diverse year: the level of change undertaken culture, and the values by which we hold while keeping the factory open for ourselves accountable, ensure that our business is a testament to the dedication colleagues consistently do the right thing for of the project team and the vision for our stakeholders.
Of course, there is always the future that the Executive team have more to do and getting this culture right for Britvic is critical to our success in an increasingly competitive environment.
Bringing to market innovation and rejuvenating some of our core brands.
The focus on healthier options across the portfolio gives me confidence that we are building a business that can capitalise 2016 2017 2018 on emerging consumer trends.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors Looking ahead In November last year we announced Twelve months on from my appointment, the appointment of Suniti Chauhan and I remain confident in the long-term William Eccleshire who have both made prospects of the business.
Britvic has a a significant contribution to the Board this fantastic portfolio of brands and a dedicated Twelve months year.
Ben Gordon stepped down as a Nonand passionate team working hard to deliver Executive Director, which I shared in my excellent outcomes.
Over the last year, I from my appointment, statement last year.
We are very grateful have seen this passion and dedication at for his service and contribution over the first hand and I want to take this opportunity I remain confident in years and we wish him well for the future.
to thank every one of the team for their hard the long-term prospects More recently, in October 2018, Mat Dunn, work and loyal service.
Britvic is in a strong Chief Financial Officer, informed the Board position and the Board is confident that the of the business.
of his intention to take up the role of CFO strategy and the Britvic team will continue at ASOS plc.
Mat has made a significant to deliver growth in the future.
The AGM and positive impact since joining Britvic will be held at 11am on 31 January at the three years ago, and on behalf of the Board offices of Linklaters LLP One Silk Street, I would like to thank him for the contribution London, EC2Y 8HQ and we look forward he has made.
Further information is available in the Notice of Meeting which The composition of the Board brings a range is available on the Britvic website at of views and experience to Britvic and both www.
supports and challenges the Executive team in the execution of the strategy.
The Board John Daly and the Executive team spent time together Chairman earlier this year shaping the strategic focus 28 November 2018 for the coming year.
As well as regular board meetings, the Non-Executives are on-hand to support Simon and his team throughout the year.
As Chairman, I have met several investors in the last 12 months, both existing and prospective shareholders.
Remuneration Our approach to reward aims to link remuneration with the delivery of the Groups key strategic objectives while delivering long-term, superior and sustainable returns to shareholders.
We believe in offering fair remuneration, where colleagues are rewarded for performance aligned to the long-term sustainable success of the business.
More information on how we ensure that J2O: Find your Mojo our approach to remuneration supports J2O is helping our strategy is available in the Directors consumers find their Remuneration Report on page 68. social mojo in its latest campaign with the help of its new brand ambassador, a cockney alpaca named Mojo, featuring at the heart of the campaign.
Mojos mission is to help enliven social occasions with his cockney pearls of wisdom and a bottle of J2O.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 11
