STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Letter Throughout this report, there are early highlights of how these changes are being embedded in the organisation, andour initial progress against our plans.
LEADERSHIP TEAM In Marco Gobbetti, Burberry has a leader with an outstanding track record of delivering growth.
With a strengthened leadership team now in place, his vision and expertise in luxury brand transformation together with Julie Browns financial and commercial acumen, Burberry has the talent and the capabilities to deliver on its plans.
SIR JOHN PEACE Chairman As Burberry embarks on this next chapter, Christopher Bailey, who has been a driving force behind the Companys transformation since 2001, decided that it was the right WE ARE ON TRACK FOR THE NEXT PHASE time for him to pursue new creative projects.
Christopher stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2018.
On behalf OF BURBERRY'S TRANSFORMATION of the Board, I would like to thank him for his exceptional contribution to Burberry and wish him every success for With a new Chief Executive Officer, Chief Creative Officer the future.
and strategy, this has been the most important year in Burberrys recent history.
We are delighted that Riccardo Tisci has decided to join us.
Riccardo previously spent more than a decade at Givenchy, We welcomed Marco Gobbetti to the role of CEO on where he was Creative Director from 2005 to 2017.
After several further key appointments to the isexcitement throughout the Company, and particularly leadership team, we were delighted that Riccardo Tisci among the creative team, about the quality of individual joined us in the crucial role of Chief Creative Officer on wehave been able to attract to the role.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS STRATEGY The Group ended the year with a strong cash balance Following Marcos appointment as CEO, the Board of892m, up 83m year-on-year after 355m of share conducted a review of the Companys strategy with buyback and 169m of dividends.
Consequently, the Board management in the context of a rapidly changing luxury has recommended a 6% increase in the full-year dividend market.
The Board was united in the view that to win to 41.3p, in line with our progressive dividend policy, withtodays customer, Burberry must sharpen its resulting in a 50% pay-out ratio based on adjusted earnings brandpositioning.
This reflects the Boards continued confidence in the future growth of the business.
This will require us to change our approach to product, communications and customer experience, enabled by Our approach to capital allocation is based on a ourongoing focus on operational excellence and our frameworkthat defines our priorities for uses of cash.
We believe that the combination will Thisis underpinned by our principle to maintain a strong deliver sustainable long-term value for customers, balance sheet, with solid investment grade credit metrics.
employees andsociety and reward our shareholders.
We believe this demonstrates our ongoing commitment to appropriately using our cash to optimise shareholder returns over time.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT Over the past five years, Burberry has returned around The Board took proactive measures to address concerns 770m toshareholders through dividends, and over the with the report following its publication, and we appreciate pasttwo years has completed 450m of share buybacks the importance of shareholder alignment on remuneration including 150m from the Coty transaction.
Our aim is to continue to build on the constructive approved a continuation of the share buyback dialogue we have established, and we recommend programmeof 150m inFY2018 19. shareholders vote in favour of this years Directors Remuneration Report: see pages 96 to 121.
BOARD DEVELOPMENTS The composition of our Board continued to evolve over GOVERNANCE AND DIVERSITY theyear, with the appointment of two new non-executive The Board seeks to operate to the highest standards directors and one longer-serving Board member stepping ofcorporate governance.
The work of our Board and its down, as noted below.
I also announced my intention to Committees during the year, along with the assessment of step down as Chairman and from the Board after 16 years.
their performance, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 75 to 121.
Following a search led by Senior Independent Director Jeremy Darroch, Burberry appointed Dr. Gerry Murphy as Burberry continues to support diversity in all its forms Chairman designate.
Gerry has extensive experience in the across the organisation including the Board, seeing consumer and retail industries and I am confident he is the thevalue it brings to discussions around the Board right choice as Burberry embarks on a new chapter.
Gerry table, andwithin the Executive Team.
While all Board will succeed me after the Companys Annual General appointments are made on merit, we continue to believe Meeting on 12 July 2018. inthe importance of a diverse Board and are proud that Burberryhas always had strong gender diversity among its Our aim is to continue to refresh the Board while ensuring membership, including at executive level.
The Board will stability and continuity, particularly in the context of continue to monitor diversity on the Board and in the significant management change and the implementation business, and take steps to maintain its position as a ofournew strategy.
meritocratic and diverse company, recognising not just itsmoral obligations but the value and benefit diversity On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Philip Bowman bringsto an organisation.
for his tremendous contribution to Burberry since our IPO in 2002.
We have greatly appreciated Philips wise counsel LOOKING TO THE FUTURE and he will be missed by us all.
Looking ahead to FY 2018 19, we will focus on embedding our strategic vision into the organisation.
We are building Ron Frasch joined the Board as a non-executive director in on strong foundations, and are fully focused on successfully September 2017.
He brings a great understanding of the US delivering our multi-year strategic plan and delivering luxury market, product and a broad experience of working sustainable long-term value.
Just as important, our with a wide range of luxury brands.
Orna NiChionna also leadership team is supported by having the right people joined the Board as a non-executive director in January inplace throughout the organisation.
In addition to her experience on remuneration matters, she brings strong UK plc and relevant business I would like to end by thanking all our talented and experience to the Board.
committed colleagues for their unstinting hard work anddedication during this time of change.
I would also REMUNERATION liketo thank current and past Board members for their Our Remuneration Policy was presented to shareholders partnership over the past 16 years.
Finally, I would like to fortheir vote at last years Annual General Meeting AGM.
thank you, our shareholders, once more for your support.
Wethank shareholders for their support, with a vote received in favour of 93%.
Shareholders also supported SIR JOHN PEACE theFY 2017 18 Directors Remuneration Report but with Chairman alowervote in favour.
