Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonias The Remuneration Committee ensures Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2018. that remuneration arrangements Remuneration policy remain closely aligned to Caledonias We submitted a revised remuneration policy to shareholders at business model and strategy, the the annual general meeting held on 20 July 2017 and I am pleased that it was approved by a majority vote of over 99%.
The principal ultimate aim of which is to grow the elements of this policy are reproduced on pages 45 to 52 for ease companys net assets and dividends of reference.
No changes to the policy are proposed this year, although, in the light of recent investor concerns surrounding paid to shareholders in real terms certain long term incentive schemes, which have produced levels over the long term, whilst managing of reward that bear little or no relation to shareholder experience, the Remuneration Committee has introduced, as a matter of good risk to mitigate volatility of returns.
practice, a discretion into the rules of our performance share scheme to enable it to reduce, in respect of future grants, the number of awards that might otherwise vest if, in the Committees view, acting fairly and reasonably, the quantum does not seem appropriate in the context of the companys performance, shareholder experience or the conduct of an individual executive.
Executive pay generally remains a focus of both government and the investor community and the Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor debate and developments in market practice Membership and attendance in this area.
Our overriding objective is however to ensure that our The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration remuneration framework supports our overall strategy and business model, the aim of which is to deliver long term increases Committee during the year was as follows: in capital and income for our shareholders.
Meetings Meetings eligible Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2018 attended to attend C H Gregson Chairman 3 3 The Annual report on directors remuneration set out on pages 53 S C R Jemmett-Page 3 3 to 59 describes in detail how our remuneration policy has been D C Stewart 3 3 applied for the year ended 31 March 2018.
I would however like to highlight the following points: Annual bonus Against a background of rising inflation and a relatively flat equity market, Caledonias net asset value per share total return The Companies Act 2006 requires the companys auditor to report NAVTR for the year of 1.4% underperformed the increase in the to the shareholders on certain parts of the Directors Retail Price Index over the year of 3.3% and accordingly no remuneration report and to state whether, in its opinion, those bonuses were awarded in respect of company performance.
The parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance Funds pool achieved a total return over the year of 8.0% which, for with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, resulted in an award of 10% of basic salary for Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The parts that element of his bonus.
After assessing their individual of the Annual report on directors remuneration that have been performance and, for Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, also attainment of pool audited are indicated in that report.
The Annual statement by the objectives, the Remuneration Committee awarded overall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration bonuses to Will Wyatt, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Stephen King of policy are not subject to audit.
40%, 50% and 30% of basic salary respectively.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 43 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Deferred bonus matching awards Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2019 The deferred bonus matching awards granted in 2015 reached the Looking ahead to the 2019 financial year, the basic salaries of end of their three year performance period.
Caledonia achieved an executive directors have been increased with effect from annualised NAVTR over the period of 7.1%, which meant that 71% 1 April 2018 by 3.0%, broadly in line with inflation, which was the of the awards vested.
The vesting scale commenced at a 20% same as the standard increase given to all of the companys staff.
pay-out for an annualised NAVTR of 4%, rising to a maximum The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees have not pay-out for an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
Performance share scheme awards We plan to make performance share scheme awards following the The remaining half of the performance share scheme awards release of our 2018 full year results announcement in line with our granted in 2013 measured over five years and the first one-third normal grant cycle.
The performance share scheme awards will be of the awards granted in 2015 measured over three years subject to the same performance measures as used for the 2017 reached the end of their performance periods this year.
The 2013 award grants, which are summarised in the notes to the awards were measured by reference to Caledonias NAVTR against remuneration policy table on pages 48 and 49.
There will be no the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, and achieved maximum compulsory deferral of bonus for executive directors this year, as vesting as the outperformance of 20.6% was comfortably in excess this only applies to bonus in excess of 50% of basic salary.
of the 3.5% outperformance needed for full vesting.
The 2015 awards were measured by reference to Caledonias annualised NAVTR over the three year period which, as mentioned above, was Charles Gregson 7.1%, giving a 71% vesting level.
The Funds pools annualised total Chairman of the Remuneration Committee return relevant for 60% of Jamie Cayzer-Colvins 2015 awards for 24 May 2018 the three year period was 12.1%, meaning that 82% of this portion of his awards vested the vesting scale starting at a Funds pool annualised total return of 6.0% and rising to a maximum vesting at an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The remaining two-thirds of the 2015 performance share scheme awards will be tested in 2020.
44 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018
