12 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Ian Tyler, Chairman Our culture is based around working responsibly Cairn is an experienced oil and gas operator and has successfully discovered and developed reserves in a variety of international locations in partnership with host governments.
The business is supported by strong, long term financial investors ensuring it is funded for strategic delivery and future growth.
6 Read more: Strategy and Key Performance Indicators on P6 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Strategic Report We maintain a strong balance sheet and applied not only by employees but by all have funding flexibility which allows us to other parties that work on the Companys Our people uphold our culture deliver our immediate programmes as well behalf including contractors, suppliers and At the heart of our culture and as actively assess new ventures and portfolio partners.
They are integrated into our business are our people.
Our exploration activity is systems and processes of which the key our most important asset.
It is their principally in frontier and emerging basins ones include the Corporate Responsibility skills and experience and collective where the greatest potential value exists, Management System CRMS, the Cairn expertise which enable us to create whilst our production assets, located in Operating Standards, the Group Risk value.
The behaviours that define mature basins, provide the cash flow to Management Procedure and the Internal the way in which we work are based sustain exploration and development activity.
on the 3Rs and are known as our High Performing Behaviours.
Cairn has an established, highly experienced Our CRMS embodies our approach to and respected leadership team which is working responsibly and interprets our committed to working responsibly in our policies and principles.
It instructs our people Be Safe pursuit of strategy.
This means working in a in their decisions and the operations they safe, secure, environmentally and socially manage and is mandatory throughout responsible manner.
We ensure that we the business.
Be Entrepreneurial measure our ability to work responsibly through our Key Performance Indicators KPI.
Working to global standards Be Focused Cairn upholds and support the 10 principles The Board has ultimate responsibility for of the United Nations Global Compact, ensuring this culture of working responsibly an initiative for businesses committed to Be a Leader exists within the organisation.
We have three aligning their strategies with universally levels of assurance within the organisation: accepted principles in human rights, labour, Our values, policies and principles and environment and anti-corruption.
In 2018 we Be Collaborative our business system procedures and published our first Modern Slavery Statement standards with which all employees are in accordance with the 2015 UK Modern required to comply: Slavery Act.
Be Open Internal oversight of their application by key committees including our Senior In 2015 the United Nations published the Leadership Team which includes our UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
Be Empowered Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer These goals have provided not only our and Chief Operating Officer: and industry but the wider business community Internal and external assurance audits with a definitive framework for more 62 Read more: Our People: Driving Value on P62 and opinions.
effectively assessing the impact and value of our activities within a bigger picture of local, regional, national and potentially global sustainable development.
We now assess Our core values, known as the 3Rs, our business for contributions we can make set the tone to the UN SDGs to help minimise our impacts and maximise the benefits of our activities for countries in which we work.
Building Respect During the year we were delighted to participate in the UNGC UK Network SDG Nurturing Relationships roadshow in Edinburgh, presenting our experience on working responsibly.
Acting Responsibly We are committed to working to International Finance Corporation IFC Performance They are underpinned by our Business Standards on Social and Environmental Principles, our Code of Business Sustainability, which are in line with the Ethics and a number of Corporate UN Global Compact principles.
Since 2012 we have also been a participating company in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI which is a The Code of Ethics identifies the standards coalition of governments, companies and of business ethics and conduct which we civil society that have adopted a joint expect and our Business Principles identify approach to applying the EITI global the behaviours we expect to achieve these standard, promoting transparency of standards.
The Code of Ethics must be payments in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
