06 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Chairmans introduction Its been a significant year Every day, Capita affects the lives of millions of people, either directly or indirectly.
It is a systemically important business, with an integral role as a services provider across many areas of the economy and society.
Capita is in transition as, under new leadership, our people restructure and rebuild the business.
A major turnaround, affecting every aspect of the business, is being undertaken.
A corporate purpose has been defined for Capita for the first time.
We are working towards our stated objectives of a return to organic growth and sustainable free cash flow.
As weve previously explained, there is a long way to go to complete the Capita transformation.
The Board is very conscious that shareholders have been supportive and patient and that the actions taken and progress made are, as yet, to be evidenced in terms of financial performance.
During 2018, trading conditions and the economic and political environment in which we operate remained uncertain.
At the same time, the company has had to recognise and confront a number of challenges.
However, much good work has been done and, despite the challenges, real progress made.
Weve drawn a line under the past, simplified and strengthened, and are regaining forward momentum.
I believe we can now look Positive steps have been taken towards the creation forward positively to what a transformed of a truly diverse, responsible, sustainable and and repositioned Capita can truly become.
Progress and performance Sir Ian Powell, Chairman Its been a significant year in the story of Capita, with positive steps taken towards the creation of a truly diverse, responsible, sustainable and digitallyenabled organisation.
Weve made progress in a number of key areas.
There is a clearly articulated strategy in place, underpinned by our newly defined purpose that we create better outcomes.
A rights issue, backed by healthy proceeds from a series of disposals, has helped address the debt side of the balance sheet and is already funding new investments.
We have also agreed a pension deficit recovery plan, and a new operating model has been rolled out.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 07 In terms of financial performance, Capita The need for increased diversity is becoming Our purpose must act as our guiding star: reported adjusted revenue of 3.9bn in recognised much more as essential across its what were working towards, but it 2018, a decline year-on-year, while adjusted Capita and will continue to be a major focus also has to be shown in everything we do.
profit before tax was slightly ahead of our for me and the leadership team.
We are a It should challenge every person and every expectations at 282.1m.
digitally-enabled company, and require a decision, including how and where we invest workforce that reflects those technologies.
our money, to achieve better outcomes for The Board fully supports the multi-year But innovation increases with diversity of each other, our shareholders and clients, and transformation plan and is monitoring thought, so we need people with different the communities we serve.
Delivering on its progress closely.
We have again backgrounds, experiences and voices, all this purpose will enhance the long-term recommended that dividend payments given the opportunity to succeed, if the sustainability of the business.
will remain suspended until sufficient company is to have a sustainable future.
sustainable free cash flow is generated.
Looking forward We realise that social mobility and social responsibility are crucial to our business.
Capita is on the way to becoming a fully Governance and diversity At Capita, we are well placed to deliver transformed business: and I would like Governance at Capita has been further programmes that support the communities to offer my sincere thanks to Jon Lewis, overhauled in the past year: and not just at we serve.
We are involved in numerous his leadership team and all of our people Board level, as the changes have gone much schemes, with the specific aims of for working so hard, with such energy wider.
The whole organisation is undergoing improving digital education and supporting and commitment, through a time of a fundamental transformation and, as part of social mobility, particularly through our significant change.
that, how it is governed from the divisions graduate and apprenticeship schemes, and and functions to individual businesses and We must make sure we deliver consistently community volunteering programmes.
It is contracts has been reviewed and redrawn.
on our contracts and commitments, increasingly clear that encouraging social Everyone in Capita now has a personal and follow through with our corporate mobility is not only the right thing to do responsibility to help it transform as purpose.
There needs to be a relentless but will help our business succeed.
focus on earning the respect and trust responsible business also means being open of all our stakeholders, including our and transparent in the way we manage our At an executive level, several more senior fellow shareholders, to whom we operations and deliver our services.
We need managers have arrived in post to provide the remain grateful and who have been to be more aware of the effect we have on company with a first-class new leadership very supportive throughout the many the communities that we serve and our role team capable of delivering profound, changes and challenges of the past year.
Its work in progress, but the company-wide controls being put in place will lead to a more stable Culture and values and efficient Capita: they will enable the To really transform Capita, we have to business to provide services to the benefit achieve cultural and behavioural change of clients and deliver financial results in a both internally and in all of our external much more effective and predictable way.
All our people need to know The directors and I will continue to review how to make the right choices for the right the constitution of the Board: we will ensure reasons, take decisions in the right way and it matches the overall purpose of Capita be guided by our new corporate approach, and its new strategic direction.
We want a which is no longer based on short-term Board with a global perspective and diversity, decisions in pursuit of near-term growth and we want this reflected throughout the and in-year profitability.
company: thats why the appointment of That is why a clear set of values and two employee directors is so significant.
behaviours has been put in place, We are determined that the perspective underpinned by our purpose and supported of employees is represented at Board and embedded through the new operating level.
Im confident it will mark us out as a model.
The purpose goes much further than forward-looking organisation and help us being simply an over-arching corporate attract, recruit and retain employees.
Everything the company does in As Ive insisted since I joined, diversity the years to come must relate back to this matters at Capita, and we have made purpose in a real and practical way.
In particular, the gender pay gap across the organisation remains disappointing but we are looking at the most effective ways of addressing the problem.
