Chairmans statement Henry Staunton, Chairman CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE, WITH RESPONSIBLE OVERSIGHT Covent Garden could be launched as an independent, prime central Total return Dividend per share London retail-focused REIT and Earls Court a land enablement and development company centred around the Earls Court Masterplan.
Preparations for a possible demerger are well-advanced and could be implemented promptly.
-2.0% 1.5p The Company has received a number of proposals in relation to the sale of certain of Capcos interests in Earls Court.
Capco has held discussions with a number of parties to establish the likely value Overview and deliverability of the proposals.
The Company will evaluate the I am delighted to have been appointed as Chairman of Capital & merits of various options, having regard to market conditions, Counties Properties PLC during the year.
This year the external long-term shareholder value and prudent capital management.
environment has been challenging, yet against this backdrop management has delivered encouraging operational progress Backed by a strong balance sheet, low leverage, high liquidity and across our prime central London portfolio.
Covent Garden, which modest capital commitments, Capco is in a position of financial represents 80 per cent of the Groups portfolio by gross value, strength to navigate market uncertainty and remains focused on continues to deliver positive performance.
However, the ongoing creating long-term value for shareholders.
political and macro-economic uncertainty continues to impact the London residential market resulting in a decline in the value of our Performance investments at Earls Court.
2018 was another active year for Covent Garden, delivering positive performance, generating further rental growth and capturing Update on possible demerger income.
The challenges to the broader retail market are well The changing income profile and scale of Covent Garden, together documented, but the quality of our assets and our approach to with the readiness of the Earls Court land for development and management of the estate continues to drive positive leasing successful disposals of the Empress State Building and Venues, demand creating a highly attractive destination for Londoners means that it is an appropriate time for the Board to consider the and visitors to the Capital.
The estate had a record year for openings structure of the Group.
with brands such as SushiSamba, Tiffany & Co. and Cora Pearl further strengthening Covent Gardens attractiveness as a During the course of 2018, Capco advanced its preparations for leading global retail and dining destination.
The completion of a possible demerger which could result in two separately-listed the Floral Court development, which is the largest undertaken businesses based around its prime central London estates.
8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements at Covent Garden to date, was an important milestone and demand Given the current market conditions and options under for the residential accommodation has been encouraging.
consideration, 2018 was undoubtedly a challenging year for our employees, and the Board would like to thank each of them and Economic and political uncertainty continue to impact the London management for their continued work and commitment.
residential market contributing to a further decline in the valuation of our investments at Earls Court.
However the consented Shareholders Masterplan is located amongst central Londons most valued Capco is listed in London and Johannesburg, and a significant postcodes with the potential to deliver a new district for the Capital.
amount of the Companys shares are held by South African With the Earls Court Partnership Limited ECPL, our investment investors.
At times there are different market expectations in the vehicle with Transport for London TfL land available for UK and South Africa, and one example of this is the level of development, ECPL has received interest from potential occupiers authority to issue new shares that shareholders expect to grant to and investors.
The disposal of the Empress State Building for Boards.
The Board continues to feel that, to preserve flexibility, it is 250 million enabled Capco to realise significant cash proceeds.
The appropriate to seek the conventional level of authorities expected Lillie Square development continues to progress with Phase 1 now by shareholders in UK listed companies where possible.
This has complete and Phase 2 construction progressing with over again resulted in significant votes against two of our AGM 80 per cent of units pre-sold.
resolutions and Capcos inclusion in The Investment Associations public register of shareholder dissent.
The Board always seeks Despite good operational performance, Capcos total shareholder shareholder views before deciding the levels of authority to be return for the year, which comprises share price performance plus sought, and will continue to maintain regular dialogue with our the dividends paid during the year, was negative 27.3 per cent.
South African shareholders on this topic.
Total return for the year, which represents the change in net assets plus the dividends paid during the year, was negative 2.0 per cent.
Along with the Executive teams comprehensive programme of The total value of Capcos property portfolio fell by 2.4 per cent on investor briefings, I continue to be willing to engage with a like-for-like basis to 3.3 billion.
Financial position and dividends Board oversight Capco maintains a strong balance sheet, with low leverage, high The Directors receive updates on performance of the Companys liquidity and modest capital commitments.
Responsible capital assets from Executive Directors and senior management at each of management and funding from diversified sources ensure Capco our formal Board meetings and the more informal Board updates.
During the year, Capcos We also visit our assets in Covent Garden and Earls Court and meet liquidity was strengthened through the successful execution of operational management regularly, which ensures that we are the sale of the Empress State Building for 250 million, a premium well-aware of the business opportunities and challenges, as well as to the 31 December 2017 valuation.
Capco is well-positioned to the views of a range of stakeholders including shareholders, local support the current capital requirements of both estates as well communities, partners, lenders, government and employees.
as take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
This year the Board and management devoted a significant amount The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, of time to evaluating the merits of the options available to the which brings the total dividend for 2018 to 1.5 pence per share.
Company and ensuring that the business will be well-positioned across a range of scenarios.
The Board and employees Following Ian Durants decision to retire from the Board during the The Board has also spent time considering the new 2018 UK year, I was delighted to be appointed as Chairman of the Company.
Corporate Governance Code to ensure that we are ready to operate Ian led the Board as Chairman for eight years from Capcos under its principles over the course of the coming year.
This inception, and the Company benefited greatly from his judgement includes an emphasis on culture, trust and consideration of and experience.
The Board is grateful for his significant stakeholder views.
Looking ahead At the same time, Gerry Murphy became Chair of the Audit The macro-economic and political environment remains uncertain, Committee and Senior Independent Director, and Charlotte Boyle however we are confident in Londons status as a truly global city became Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
I am pleased to with the ability to attract investment, visitors and talent from report that they are already making a positive contribution in their around the world.
Our strategy is to deliver long-term value new roles, and the Board continues to operate effectively.
creation for shareholders with an increased focus on Covent Garden and realisation of value from Earls Court.
The Company will The Board has continued to consider its current composition.
evaluate the merits of various options, having regard to the market Recognising the need to maintain significant property experience and political environment as well as prudent capital management.
on the Board, we are delighted to announce the appointment of Backed by a strong balance sheet Capco is very well-positioned to Jonathan Lane as a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 March deliver long-term value for shareholders.
A former Chief Executive and Chairman of Shaftesbury, Jonathan brings a wealth of West End property experience to the Board, and we look forward to his contribution as we unlock the potential of Capco and its assets.
On appointment, Jonathan will also become a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Andrew Strang has decided to stand down from the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with effect from Henry Staunton 1 March 2019.
Anthony Steains will join the Remuneration Chairman Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
Graeme Gordon has informed the Board that he will not be seeking re-election at the 26 February 2019 Companys forthcoming AGM.
The Directors and I thank Graeme for his long and supportive service to the Company, and his wise counsel.
