Chairmans Statement Card Factory performed well in FY18 with strong like-for-like sales growth, whilst profits were impacted by the prevailing headwinds from foreign exchange and national living wage Geoff Cooper Chairman Card Factory performed well in FY18 with strong like-for-like In April 2017 we announced the appointment of our new Chief sales growth, whilst profits were impacted by the prevailing Financial Officer, Kris Lee, following the retirement of Darren headwinds from foreign exchange and national living wage.
With Kris extensive experience in senior financial and commercial roles in the retail sector, his energy, drive and Whilst this year marks the fourth anniversary of our IPO, it is entrepreneurial mindset fits well with the Card Factory culture also the 20th anniversary of the Companys formation.
Having and will be invaluable to the Group as we move forward with started life as a local family owned discounter, the Group has our growth strategy.
developed into a market leading, high margin, national, value retailer with over 900 stores and two transactional websites.
The Board has increased the total ordinary dividend for the In the year we also opened our first stores in the Republic of year by 2.2% to 9.3p per share, reflecting our strong cash Ireland.
During the last 20 years the Group has demonstrated generation and confidence in the future prospects of the an ability to grow sales and profit, notwithstanding recent cost business.
This is in addition to the 15.0p per share special headwinds, increase market share and generate significant dividend paid in December 2017.
In line with our stated capital returns for shareholders.
The Boards objective is to continue policy, we currently expect to make a further return of surplus to build on this strong track record in the yearsahead.
cash to shareholders towards the end of the current financial year, and further information is included in our CFOsreview.
The Group remains focused on its successful four pillar growth strategy, underpinned by its unique vertically integrated model which provides significant competitive advantage, particularly in Geoff Cooper challenging retail environments, as seen in 2017.
In her report Chairman that accompanies these results our Chief Executive Officer, Karen Hubbard, provides an update on the Groups current 9 April 2018 strategic priorities.
The Board is excited by the opportunities, both strategic and operational, that Karen is exploring to further improve an already very successful business.
14 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials destination for all cards something for everyone Fantastic new Ranges During the last 20 years the Group has demonstrated an ability to grow sales and profit, notwithstanding recent cost headwinds, increase market share and generate significant returns for shareholders Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Fantastic gifts Online sales are very promising
