Strategic Report TheDirectors consider that within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs business strategy is byreference to the consolidated strategy of Carnival Corporation & plc.
Accordingly, this Strategic Report presents the required strategy and business review for the combined group in order to satisfy reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Dear Shareholders, 2018wasanother strong year for our company.
We achieved the highest full-year earnings in our companys history, our fifth consecutive year of adjusted earnings growth and third consecutive record year.
More importantly, 2018marked the return to double-digit return oninvested capital.
Backin 2013, weset an objective to transform our company and, within five years, to reach double-digit return oninvested capital-- the mark of a high-performing company.
I sincerely thank our more than 120,000team members whowent above and beyond, and byconsistently exceeding our guest expectations, delivered for both our guests and our shareholders.
In just five years, our team more than doubled our return oninvested capital and nearly tripled our adjusted earnings per share, through executing our strategy to create demand in excess of measured capacity growth while leveraging our industryleading scale.
It wastheir efforts that drove, over that time period, an $11billion increase in market capitalization and the return of $11billion to shareholders through strong dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases.
All of this wasaccomplished while also achieving an improvement to A-and A3credit ratings from S&Pand Moodys, respectively.
It wastheir passion and their commitment that enabled us to overcome a host of headwinds and still perform at these higher levels.
Andwhencombined with the strong support of our valued travel agent partners, underpinned our sustained earnings improvement.
Creating Demand in Excess of Measured Capacity Growth While the journey to sustained double-digit return oninvested capital is built onthe foundation of exceeding guest expectations, wehave many other notable accomplishments that helped pave the way.
Ourproactive public relations efforts to increase consideration for cruise and reduce misperceptions about cruising have clearly had a positive impact ondemand creation.
Theabsolute number of positive media mentions is five times what they were just five years ago and today our brands consistently capture over 75percent of all positive media in our industry.
Through our marketing efforts, our brands have shared the spotlight with many well-known personalities who brought with them a greater audience of potential new-to-cruise like, to name a few, Oprah Winfrey for Holland America Line, Shaquille ONeal for Carnival Cruise Line, Shakira for Costa, and even Her Majesty the Queen for P&OCruises UK.
Ourbrands were featured ontelevision programs all around the world including: GoodMorningAmerica, The TodayShow,  the U. S. and in the UK, Ant&Decand the ITVreality show, TheCruise.
In addition, wecreated our ownoriginal TVprogramming which has already reached more than 400million views and counting, airing onmajor U. S. networks including ABC, NBC, Telemundo and Univision.
Our proprietary shows-- Emmy-award  Corwin, , VacationCreation, and for the fast growing Spanish-speaking market, LaGranSorpresa -- are among the most popular travel series onTV, using authentic storytelling to share the powerful waytravel bysea connects people, places and cultures around the world.
All of these programs and more can also be found onour ownover the top digital platform, OceanView, or our ownmobile app, OceanViewmobile.
Through our history-making voyage to Cubain 2016, wecaptured over 55billion highly positive media impressions, and became the first U. S. cruise operator in more than 40years to bring cruise guests directly from the U. S. to Cuba.
Atthe same time, our voyage opened an exciting newdestination option in the Caribbean for our guests.
1 Strategic Report We made more global newsthrough the historic signing of a joint venture agreement with China State Shipbuilding Corporation CSSC, forming a local cruise operating company and forging a significant long-term relationship to help build the cruise industry in China.
Andwemade history with the debut of OceanMedallion, our patented guest experience innovation, which enabled us to become the first travel company ever to be asked to keynote at CES, the largest technology trade showin the world.
We believe MedallionClass can elevate the guest experience byenabling the delivery of more personalized guest services including features like expedited frictionless embarkation: keyless and personalized stateroom access: ondemand services, easy to follow wayfinding, the best Wi-Fi at sea, interactive entertainment and more.
There is nothing like OceanMedallion in the travel industry today, and weare excited about its potential to further our mission of consistently exceeding our guests expectations.
Todate, OceanMedallion has received 36billion favorable media impressions for our company and has won recognition globally as an innovation effort, including our company being recognized byFastCompanyas one of the TopTenMost Innovative Companies in the travel category.
These kinds of global exposures are all part of our continuous effort to keep cruising at the forefront of consumers vacation consideration set.
Reinforcing Measured Capacity Growth Ofcourse, our ongoing fleet replenishment efforts are central to our strategy to create demand in excess of measured capacity growth.
Over the last five years, wewelcomed 12state-of-the-art larger, more efficient vessels, while at the same time nine less efficient ships exited our fleet building an inherently more returnresilient fleet.
Goingforward, wewill continue to achieve greater economies.
Over the next five years, wewill welcome 17 more efficient ships, and continue to divest our less efficient ships, representing net capacity growth of roughly five percent compounded annually, in keeping with our philosophy of measured capacity growth.
We expect this more efficient capacity to be a driver for earnings growth going forward.
Using Our Industry-Leading Scale to Create Greater Value We continue to make meaningful progress onour cross-brand efforts to use our industry-leading scale to create greater value.
We began rolling out newtechnology across our brands both onboard and shoreside including enhanced targeted marketing, improved CRMcapabilities, newmobile apps and redesigned websites which collectively contribute to an enhanced guest experience.
We deployed our newstate-of-the-art revenue management system across six of our brands.
We also accelerated progress onour cost containment efforts, delivering more than $350million of cost savings in just five years.
We believe wehave more runway ahead to continue the momentum.
Affirming Our Sustainability Commitment Over the past five years, wealso had many notable achievements in our sustainability efforts, including the opening of our significantly expanded Arison Maritime Center, home of the CSMARTAcademy in the Netherlands, to provide state of the art maritime training to nearly 7,000deck and engineering officers annually, through cutting-edge bridge and engine room simulators and curriculum.
Andweopened three state-of-the-art Fleet Operations Centers around the globe to provide real-time support, ship-to-shore, 24hours a day.
Onthe environmental front, weexceeded our target unit fuel consumption reduction of 25percent -- three years ahead of schedule -- and wemade history with the cruise industrys first ship able to be solely powered by liquefied natural gas, the worlds cleanest burning fossil fuel.
We are fully committed to continuous improvement in health, environment, safety and security.
Executing Along the Path to Sustainable Double-Digit ROIC Thelast five years have been transformative, achieving breakthrough results against considerable odds.
It is a solid foundation onwhich to build.
In fact today, our business model is stronger than ever, having built into the fleet even greater return oninvestment resilience ontop of an even stronger balance sheet.
Asour journey continues, wewill stay onmuch the same path -- creating demand in excess of measured capacity growth while leveraging our industry-leading scale to deliver a sustained and growing double-digit return on invested capital over time, while at the same time continuing to return cash to shareholders.
2 While wehave accomplished much, wehave much more workto do.
We are ever mindful that there are headwinds and risks, and weare working hard to ensure that wemitigate and weather them.
Thankyoufor your continued confidence and your shared vision of building uponthe great legacy that is Carnival Corporation & plc as wecontinue to exceed guest expectations while delivering lifelong memories through the worlds greatest holiday experiences.
Arnold W. Donald President and Chief Executive Officer January 28, 2019 3 Strategic Report
