INTRODUCTION Chairmans statement This year, against an operationally challenging backdrop, Centamin produced 472,418oz of gold, delivered a solid cost performance and returned excellent exploration results across our portfolio of assets.
Josef El-Raghy Chairman Dear shareholders, 2018 performance Clear strategy This year, against an operationally Centamins core strategy remains On behalf of the Board, herewith, I challenging backdrop, Centamin focused and consistent: deliver would like to present the 2018 results.
produced 472,418 oz of gold, beat organic growth by optimising the Purpose-driven growth cost guidance and returned excellent performance of our existing operation, Ten years ago, we produced our first exploration results across our portfolio while progressing an active pipeline of gold bar from Sukari, a seminal of assets.
Our workforce responded future growth prospects through the milestone in the Companys history to the operational challenges with discovery and development of and the Egyptian modern mining dexterity and professionalism.
orebodies that meet our operational industry.
Today, we have produced in and cost objectives.
Stringent cost Throughout 2018, the Company was excess of 3.8Moz of gold from Sukari, management and closely managed, in regular communication with you, its with greater than 15 years scheduled disciplined capital allocation has shareholders, and the broader market future production from this global delivered another year of meaningful to revise expectations in accordance Tier 1 gold asset.
cash generated from operations of with the operational challenges faced.
I would personally like to thank our We recognise the impact of these partners, the Egyptian Mineral short term revisions on the During 2018, we successfully delivered Resource Authority EMRA, for their shareholder experience and would like on most of our strategic pillars: support over the years our shared to take this opportunity to thank you Financial Flexibility, Stakeholder vision of what we can, and have, for your support and engagement.
Returns and Active Growth Pipeline achieved together is testament to the Together, we demonstrated the objectives, and made marked success of that partnership.
Mining underlying resilience and financial progress on Sustainability objectives.
has yet to fulfil its true potential in robustness of the business and Operational developments in 2018 Egypt, providing jobs, infrastructure, continued to make progress in meant we could not deliver against community opportunities, in addition delivering on our strategy.
all the objectives set within our Asset to direct fiscal revenues through Quality strategic pillar.
Solutions royalties and profit share.
We look implemented throughout the year forward to continuing to work in demonstrated good progress: we partnership with EMRA to ensure fully exited the transitional zone, a Egypt develops its gold resources for spare LHDR is on site and operational, future generations, delivering long and we continue to work through the term economic growth to the benefit factors driving increased dilution in of the country and all of our other the underground, demonstrated by stakeholders.
While this remains a core area of focus, we believe we have navigated the challenges and have the right strategy in place to deliver on our promises in 2019 and beyond.
8 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information E t h n i c 1 8 d i v e r s i t e y c n e d n 5 8 e p e d n I G e n d e r INTRODUCTION Warehouse and power station at Sukari.
Our aggressive approach to Board diversity managing the bottom line, and thereby maximising cash flow, resulted in free cash flow generation of US$63.4 million, after the aforementioned stakeholder returns, in spite of a 13% decrease in gold production.
In line with the Companys sustainable Board dividend policy, the Board of Directors composition is pleased to propose a final dividend for 2018 of 3.0 US cents per share, for shareholder approval at the upcoming annual general meeting AGM.
The Board returned US$28.9 million to shareholders as an interim dividend of 2.5 US cents per share.
The proposed total dividend of 5.5 US cents per share, equal to US$63.5 million cash dividend payout for 2018, is equivalent to returning 100% of free cash flow Reliable stakeholder returns In 2018, Centamin generated and to shareholders.
distributed a total of US$99.6 million to Centamin aims to generate tangible our host country governments by way value for each of its stakeholders, of profit share, royalties, tax and thereby contributing to the licence fees, and a further socio-economic development of its US$40.8 million paid to employees in host countries and supporting long benefits and salaries.
Throughout the term sustainable operations to the year, proactive local engagement with benefit of its employees, partners the communities we operate within has and communities.
The Group been a critical process in ensuring we workforce consists of 1,500 direct understand their needs to effectively employees, 94% are local to the develop and deliver mutually beneficial country of the asset, and a further sustainable initiatives.
840 contractors, of which 87% are employed locally.
Operating and growing a regional hub-based approach lends itself to a cultural, ethnic and gender diverse workforce.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 9 1 8 d i v e e c r n s e i t i r y e p x e y r 8 4 t s u d n i g n i n i E M x e c 8 2 u t i v e INTRODUCTION Chairmans statement continued Reliable stakeholder returns At the Board level, we are delighted Material upside continued to welcome Dr Ibrahim Fawzy as an We start the tenth year of independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company is in a strong financial commercial production with an Dr Fawzy is a pioneer who has been position with cash and liquid assets increased production outlook of responsible for driving and developing of US$322.3 million, as at 490,000 520,000 ounces, as we Egyptian industry reform through the 31 December 2018, and no debt or are actively working through the wide range of senior positions he has hedging in place.
The Board outstanding factors impacting held over many years.
His extensive continues to review capital allocation underground dilution at Sukari.
experience within the public and opportunities in line with the These actions include the installation private sectors will be an excellent Companys growth and cost of a Cemented Hydra Fill Plant CHFP, complement to the corporate strategy objectives.
We have a number of which will be used to stabilise the and the strength of our existing growth opportunities within our stoping voids and reduce the impact balanced, multi-disciplinary Board.
portfolio which we will progress until of dilution through cascading.
a stage we can measure them against In March, Trevor Schultz stepped In 2018, we were able to contain our our internal growth and cost down from the Board having been cost pressures on an absolute basis: objectives.
The Company has a with the Company for twelve years, however, in 2019 we forecast an 8% sustainable dividend policy in place, much of which was successfully 11% increase in cash costs per ounce having returned US$418.7 million leading the phased construction of and a 1% 7% increase in all-in over the last five years excluding the Egypts first modern mechanised gold sustaining costs per ounce.
This is proposed 2018 final dividend and mine.
We wish him well in his future largely driven by increasing input regularly reviews alternative means endeavours and look forward to costs, due to the increased volumes in of returning capital to shareholders.
preserving his legacy as we continue both mining and processing, as well as to maximise operational efficiency of Maintaining a strong rising fuel, reagent and consumable Sukaris infrastructure, as delivered in Board for the future prices.
The Company is in the final 2018 with the plant throughput in stages of a detailed design and There has been a key focus excess of design capacity and feasibility study for a solar farm that throughout 2018 on succession improved recoveries.
could ultimately produce planning and recruitment across the circa 40MW AC.
Once installed, this Group, not just at Board level.
Routine Succession planning will continue with will deliver significant cost saving and review of the operational organisation vigour into 2019, maintaining a strong environmental benefits, reducing our structure and emphasis on Board for now and the future.
The reliance on fossil fuels.
professional development has resulted Nomination Committee is actively in multiple internal promotions and pursuing the further appointment of This year we grew our global resource successful external recruitment, three independent Non-Executive by 5% to 15.7Moz, predominantly ensuring we have the right team to Directors, specifically with technical driven by increased contribution from deliver our strategy.
Sukari is operated and capital market expertise.
In our Cte dIvoire assets.
Sukari from the ground, on a regional-hub particular, one individual who will underground reserves were replaced approach, led by the General succeed myself, as Non-Executive in excess of mining depletion, Manager.
As Doropo continues to Chair, will guide the Board, delivering on our primary underground progress up the value chain towards management and Company forward exploration objective.
We remain potential development, we are in achieving our future milestones.
confident in delivering further Group expanding the regional team, ensuring reserve and resource growth we have the right people in place to supported by consistent investment deliver the next stage.
into exploration, potentially shaping future development prospects outside of Egypt as well as defining additional sources of high-grade tonnes at Sukari.
10 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information INTRODUCTION Drilling in West Africa.
Corporately we always look for an We welcome you to attend the AGM, opportunity to increase our which will be held in Jersey on 8 April landholding within the underexplored 2019.
The AGM result in 2018 required Arabian Nubian Shield, leveraging off immediate action by the Board and a of our established in-country consultation process was undertaken foundation, workforce, resources and with shareholders and proxy advisory technical expertise.
Centamin, groups to address their concerns and through the construction and understand the reasons for the operation of Sukari, has attracted in significant votes cast against the excess of US$1 billion in foreign members of the Remuneration investment into Egypt, the success of Committee and the remuneration which makes us the largest direct policy report.
Following that review financial investor in mining.
We process and taking account of continue to work closely with EMRA feedback following the consultation and would support fiscally fair and process, the Board is pleased to commercial terms to unlock Egypts recommend the approval of the resource potential and attract more updated remuneration policy, foreign investments, for the benefit of remuneration report and performance the country.
share plan to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board, for and on behalf of Centamin plc.
Josef El-Raghy Chairman 1 March 2019 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Whats in this section Strategic report 14 Chief Executive Officers statement 17 Market review 18 Business model 20 Resources and relationships 22 Strategy summary 24 Strategy in action 34 Key performance indicators 38 Risk management 50 Operational review 55 Exploration review 70 Financial review 80 Corporate social responsibility 12 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT Cleopatra underground at Sukari.
