Strategic Report Chairmans Statement After five years as Chairman of Centrica, Meanwhile, Centrica continues to be this marks the end of my time helping to exposed to commodity prices and weather guide the destiny of this great company.
which have experienced even greater So, I think it is a good moment to reflect volatility in recent times.
Our control over on all that has happened and offer my the external environment is very limited.
perspective on the ways in which the This has been the unsettled context energy markets, the political environment of my time at Centrica.
The company and the business have evolved over I joined was very different from todays that time.
a vertically integrated, more asset It has been a period of many changes and heavy, energy-focused conglomerate challenge, both externally and internally.
with a poor record of serving many of The political tectonic plates have moved its customers.
It was already apparent at in ways that have proved very difficult to the very beginning of my tenure that this predict, culminating in Brexit in the UK and resource-led business model, constructed the election of President Trump in the US.
at great cost, was unsustainable.
Since the Global Financial Crisis, public Something had to change if Centrica was trust in business has steadily eroded.
So, we developed We in the corporate sector must a new strategy which offered the chance to shoulder our share of the blame for restore the Company to profitable growth.
We certainly have not argued This involved re-engineering the business in the case for business and free markets mid-flight while the context around us was as effectively as we could have done.
Equally, governments and regulators, The strategy we launched in 2015 was encouraged by pressure groups and the based on a reaffirmation of our core commissars of social media, have taken purpose to provide energy and services advantage of the prevailing mood to pursue to satisfy the changing needs of our interventionist and populist policies which customers.
It consisted of three elements: have damaged investor sentiment and reshaping the portfolio of businesses: business confidence without achieving becoming materially more efficient: and their purported objective of benefiting developing new engines of growth.
We also consumers to any great extent.
sought to shift the Companys narrative and its relationship with stakeholders.
The business Zeitgeist has been that disruption is good.
In many sectors, We have been largely successful in 26,276 new entrants with new ways of working achieving the first and second elements.
thousand customer have undoubtedly brought benefits to We have re-focused more investment accounts consumers in the shape of increased on our customer-facing businesses and includes 5,560 choice and affordability.
But there have become simpler as an organisation, also been unintended consequences divesting many of our asset-based fide&P sites less secure employment, distorted operations: we have developed new markets, more tax avoidance and capabilities in our traditional energy insufficient consideration of what supply and services businesses, and in our 30,520 healthy future enterprise ecosystems newer distributed energy and connected Direct Group headcount might comprise.
home activities as we adapt to a more decentralised energy market where advances in technology are placing control in the hands of our customers.
We have also run a disciplined cost efficiency programme which has helped to protect our cash flow, credit rating and dividend over the past four years.
4 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We provide heat, light and essential services to millions of households and businesses: we help to secure vital energy supplies for the nation: we generate significant economic benefits through jobs, investment and our supply chain.
This is a great business which I am confident has a great future.
When it comes to the third element of Whatever our disagreements, we have Board succession and planning has been our strategy developing new engines always tried to engage constructively with at the forefront of our minds in 2018 as of growth we are not there yet, but governments of any stripe and to behave numerous changes took effect which will the signs are encouraging.
Our customer as a good corporate citizen with a social significantly alter the dynamic of the Board segmentation and proposition development conscience and a key contributor to the for the next few years.
We embrace the capabilities have advanced beyond economic prosperity of the countries in importance of diversity and inclusion in recognition in my time with the Company, which we operate.
all Board recruitment and we support while we have seen material growth rates the recommendations of the HamptonFor our shareholders the past few years in Connected Home and Distributed Alexander and Parker Reviews in relation have been a bumpy ride.
This is evidence that to gender and ethnic diversity.
We are short-term setbacks and a historically we are evolving our offerings to meet actively seeking to achieve a broader, challenging external environment, I am the changing needs of our customers.
confident that our strategy is the best way But we acknowledge that we must Improving our relationship with our to restore growth and ensure the survival improve our record in this area.
stakeholders is also a work in progress.
It is difficult to see how sticking to Centricas old business As part of a structured and continuous We have made great efforts to provide model would have produced a better Board succession programme, three of a better service to our customers, with short-term or long-term outcome for our Executive Directors, Mark Hanafin, some encouraging results.
Jeff Bell and Mark Hodges, have stepped are down in energy supply in all our down from the Board and have been During my time in the boardroom we have geographies.
But we still have a long way succeeded by Richard Hookway, Chris to go in rebuilding trust, which is essential found ourselves deep in discussion on a OShea and Sarwjit Sambhi, respectively.
very wide range of topics.
The strategic if we are to retain customers in a world I would like to extend a warm welcome to of price caps.
Are we developing Richard, Chris and Sarwjit and to thank the cash flows and the disciplines that we Our employees have been extremely Jeff, Mark and Mark for the valuable need?
What are our profitable growth loyal and hardworking through a time of service they have given to Centrica.
Do we have the right constant change: a significant reduction in capabilities?
Is our remuneration I would also like to welcome two new the number of posts across the business: structure and policy fit for purpose?
Non-Executive Directors to the Board, the sale of assets: and the creation of new Pam Kaur and Kevin OByrne.
I would like to thank every one We have deliberated at length about the Board in February 2019 and has of our people, not just for the past year, the shifting skills base.
We have made considerable experience of audit, but for my entire time at Centrica.
They great efforts to develop the truly compliance, finance and risk management are a credit to the business.
representative workforce which a which will be of significant benefit to the 21st century organisation requires.
With the UK Government and regulator we Board.
Kevin, who brings a wealth of retail We know that we need to push diversity have had our well known differences and and finance experience, joins the Board harder to achieve that.
This applies just we made clear our opposition to the price in May 2019 and will succeed Margherita as much in the boardroom as it does cap on all default tariffs.
Although we Della Valle as Chairman of the Audit in the rest of the business.
accept the implementation of the cap Committee.
Margherita will retire from and are now focused on continuing to the Board in May having completed her serve our customers effectively under it, nine-year term in office.
I would like to we have requested a judicial review of thank Margherita for her hard work and some of the assumptions which underly it.
contribution to Centrica over that period.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Strategic Report I Chairmans statement Further information on all of these Board As Centrica looks to the future, many changes is set out in my Governance questions remain to be answered.
Can Statement and in the report of the our mix of businesses grow?
Can we Nomination Committee, both of which remain competitive by continuing to drive can be found in the Governance section efficiency gains?
Can we rebuild the trust of this Annual Report.
of customers in a world of price caps?
Can we further improve our risk management We also announced in December that, and mitigation?
Can we build the muscles after 22 years with the Company, our and demonstrate agility to be able to Group General Counsel & Company respond to changed circumstances Secretary, Grant Dawson, has elected quicker and more effectively?
Over a long career with the Company, Grant has The answers to those questions are grounded in the strategy which we been a valuable guide to the Board and executive team and a real servant developed in 2015.
We took a long, hard look at the Company and we felt of Centrica.
He is succeeded by Justine Campbell, who has been at Centrica that we had a duty to take this great Company and create a future for it.
since 2013 and has in-depth legal and regulatory experience in both the We knew that market and political energy and telecommunications sectors.
conditions would be turbulent and volatile, As you read this, as announced in May so we asked ourselves: Is this a strategy 2018 I will have departed my role as that is good for all seasons?
It has been both a privilege the answer to that question is Yes, and stimulating challenge to lead the even with events that we could not have Board.
But now that our portfolio foreseen at the time, including Brexit.
restructuring is coming to an end, We can argue about the nuances of the I felt that it was the right time to go.
portfolio balance we have created.
But we We are fortunate to have in my successor have preserved cash flow and the dividend Charles Berry someone ideally suited and that speaks volumes.
That by itself in talent, temperament and experience is not enough to prove the Company can to guide the Board as Centrica returns grow.
But we have laid the groundwork to sustainable long-term growth and on which I am confident my successor further develops its new narrative.
Last year I announced that I had asked I hope this marks a point where Centrica our Non-Executive Director, Joan Gillman, is on a far more positive footing.
At a time to provide reassurance that the voice of when our national economy faces great our people is being heard loud and clear uncertainty and emerging threats, it is in the boardroom.
I am pleased to say worth reflecting on the importance of that Joan has been effective in doing this Centrica as a business for the UK.
and I would like to thank her for her input We provide heat, light and essential in this key area.
services to millions of households and Good employee engagement is vital for businesses: we help to secure vital energy the future of Centrica.
Without it, we supplies for the nation: we generate cannot hope to serve our customers to the significant economic benefits through best of our ability or develop the attractive jobs, investment and our supply chain.
new propositions that we need to survive in This is a great business which I am such a competitive environment.
In recent confident has a great future.
years, our record has been disappointing.
Happily, our employee engagement scores Rick Haythornthwaite improved in 2018, but remain well below Chairman where we want them to be.
We must 20 February 2019 continue to do more to support our people.
Read more about our workforce engagement on Page 78 6 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Introducing our new Chairman I have known Centrica since its inception over 20 years ago, first as a competitor when I was at Scottish Power, then during my time as chairman of Drax up to 2015.
Charles Berry So it is a special privilege for me to take on the role of It is a truism that we face serious challenges as a business.
Chairman at a company that I have long recognised To my mind, none is greater than climate change.
weather events around the world make it ever more evident that companies need to address this issue and it is clear I have enjoyed starting to get under the bonnet of Centrica to me that Centrica can make a big contribution.
over the past few months by immersing myself in the business, visiting sites across the globe from Staines to New Jersey We have developed new capabilities such as Distributed and familiarising myself with our activities: everything from Energy & Power which are completely consistent with energy supply and services, energy marketing and trading, a more effective approach to tackling climate change.
to the innovations we are developing to benefit our customers.
As a Group, we are strategically positioned to respond effectively to the three driving forces of change in our What I have seen is richer and deeper than I expected sector decentralisation, digitisation and decarbonisation.
and my expectations were already high.
I have witnessed the extensive commitment and quality of our colleagues As I look forward to my time guiding the deliberations of and the diverse range of their capabilities.
This is reassuring, the Board, I will also be looking to ensure that we continue given the challenges we face.
to improve our engagement with all our stakeholders.
In particular, in line with the UKs new corporate governance I have nearly a quarter of a century of personal experience code, which came into effect this year, Joan Gillman has in and around the energy sector.
I hope to bring all this to taken on the role as designated Non-Executive for bear in helping to craft a way forward for Centrica and engagement with our employees.
supplementing the already considerable skills of my Board colleagues.
It is important for you to know that we are not doing this simply to tick boxes, but because it is the right thing to do and will As a member of the steering group of the Hampton-Alexander make the business stronger.
I look forward to Joan developing Review, I am deeply committed to the need for and the her role and inputs to the Board through 2019 and beyond.
There is strength in diversity, both at Board and team level, and Centrica is clearly focused on These are difficult times for businesses and Centrica is no exception.
We face intensifying competition, political achieving that.
But I am confident Rick has worked hard throughout his time as Chairman to that our range of capabilities and the skills of our people refresh the Board and nurture its evolution.
Im delighted to will ensure a bright and prosperous future for the Company.
welcome to the Board Pam Kaur and Kevin OByrne as our I very much look forward to being part of it.
new Non-Executive Directors, Chris OShea, Sarwjit Sambhi and Richard Hookway as new Executive Directors and Justine Campbell as Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
I look forward to working with them all.
I would also like to pay tribute to Rick for his calm and insightful leadership of the Board over the past six years.
Read more about Corporate Governance on Pages 66 to 112 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
