CHAIRMANS LETTER A TRANSFORMATIVE YEAR Anthony Bloom CHAIRMAN The Groups UK and ROW operations also continued to perform OVERVIEW well, against a bar set very high by 2017s record year in Europe.
2018 was a transformative year for the Cineworld Group.
Iam pleased to report that the UK achieved revenue growth of The acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group Regal 3.3% with the figure for ROW revenue growth being 3.6%.
on 28 February made us into a global operator and the second largest cinema chain in the world.
By the end of 2018, Following the combination with Cinema City International N. V. the Group was operating 9,518 screens in 790 sites across Cinema City in 2014, the Board and Executive Management 10countries.
This significant achievement would have been Team adopted a Strategic Operating Plan which consists of: difficult to imagine when we began operations in 1996. the opening of new cinemas in areas considered to have the Since that time, both profits and dividends have increased potential for double digit growth rates: each year, and in the UK alone over 5,000 jobs have been the pursuit of suitable acquisition opportunities: created.
The Group is very proud of this record and I am confident its growth will continue in the future.
the refurbishment of the existing estate by introducing state-of-the-art design and installing the latest cutting So it gives me great pleasure to present shareholders with edge screening and other technology: this Annual Report, being the Groups first inclusive of the results of our US operations.
As you will see, the acquisition a consistent focus on cost reduction: has proved very successful commercially as regards the the implementation of a programme to continuously integration of the business.
optimise the customer experience: and Group Pro-forma revenue for the year increased by 7.2% to always living up to our vision to be The Best Place $4,711.4m 2017:$4,394.5m, and Adjusted Pro-forma EBITDA to Watch a Movie.
The growth was driven by the inclusion of the US operations, where on a Pro-forma During this landmark year in the Groups development, this basis, revenue and Adjusted EBTIDA for the Regal business Strategic Operating Plan remained the focus for generating grew by 8.6% and 13.2% respectively.
These broad objectives remain relevant for the Group and going forward will be extended to encompass The US now represents 74.8% of revenue on a Pro-forma the operations of Regal.
basis with the UK representing 14.8% and the Rest of the World ROW 10.4%.
As the US is by far the largest segment of the Groups operations, the Board has decided that the Groups results should be reported in US dollars to provide a more meaningful picture of its activities: this Annual Report is the first in that currency.
02 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements While mentioning Regal, I would like to acknowledge the Camela Galano was appointed to the Board as an Independent tremendous work undertaken by the management and staff Non-Executive Director.
Camela began her career at New Line on both sides of the Atlantic with regard to the integration Cinema, progressing to the role of President of International and development of the Regal business and cinema estate.
Sales, Marketing & Distribution, where she oversaw the I am delighted with the results achieved, but those results in international distribution of innumerable titles, including the no way diminish the significant challenge the task presented.
blockbuster trilogy The Lord of the Rings.
Subsequently, Of course, the acquisition remains a significant opportunity for Camela became the President of International Film Acquisitions us and I believe that with the strength and experience of our for Warner Bros.
Following her time at Warner Bros. she people, the Group is well positioned to make the most of it.
served as President of Relativity International, overseeing global sales, marketing and distribution management of While 2018 has seen a focus on the integration of the US, Relativitys own titles, acquisitions and third party releases.
there has been no reduction in the development of the estate Camela is a long-time member of the Academy of Motion and operations in the UK and ROW.
We have opened six sites Picture Arts and Sciences and the British Academy of in the UK and one in ROW, while also refurbishing four sites Film and Television Arts.
Camela is Head of International in the UK.
As well as expanding our geographic footprint, the Regal acquisition also had a considerable impact on the Groups OUTLOOK Balance Sheet.
The acquisition was funded by the proceeds Looking to 2019 and beyond, it is clear to me that it will be of a fully underwritten rights issue which raised $2.3bn, and an exciting time for the Group.
Our well diversified cinema $4.1bn was raised with debt.
estate, along with continued investment in the UK and ROW circuits and our development plans for the US leave us well As at 31 December 2018 the Groups Adjusted net debt to placed to take advantage of the strong film slate ahead.
Adjusted EBITDA ratio was 3.7 times.
The Group is cash generative and has a strong record of sound capital allocation, We will focus on maximising cash flow to expand and refurbish enabling a significant reduction in debt in the years following the our cinemas, while at the same time reducing borrowing levels Cinema City combination while we also invested the strategic and maintaining our well established dividend policy.
I remain rollout of new sites and our refurbishment programme.
confident that we have the right team and resources to continue growing and making the most of the opportunities ahead.
To demonstrate its confidence in this regard, and given the increase in statutory profit after tax to $284.3m 2017: $129.5, Anthony Bloom the Board has increased the cash dividend paid for the full year CHAIRMAN by 163.1%.
The proposed final dividend per share is 10.15c.
28 March 2019 BOARD AND MANAGEMENT The Board is committed to attaining the highest standards of corporate governance and applying the utmost rigour in our approach to areas such as gender, diversity, health and safety.
Environmental concerns were an area focused upon, and appropriate improvements were made in our practices by reducing plastic usage and energy conservation projects.
In 2018 the Group On behalf of the Board I would like to express sincere thanks became a global to our highly professional Executive Management Team and cinema operator.
all of our employees for their dedication and hard work both in ensuring the successful completion of the Regal acquisition and in achieving the gratifying results now presented: their efforts are a credit to the Group.
The following Board changes took place during the year: On 17 January 2019 the appointment of Alicja Kornasiewicz as Deputy Chair was announced.
Alicja will succeed to the position of Chair when I step down at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2020.
Alicja has extensive experience in business, finance, politics and regulatory bodies, and has been a valuable member of the Board since 2015.
I would like to congratulate her on her appointment.
Renana Teperberg, Chief Commercial Officer joined the Board as an Executive Director.
Renana joined Cinema City International as a cinema cashier in 1997 while studying for a BA in psychology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
After progressing to General Manager, she moved to the Cinema City Head Office where she subsequently became Head of Programming and Marketing.
Following the combination with Cineworld, she became Senior Vice President of Commercial and then Chief Commercial Officer in 2016.
Renana played a major role in the acquisition of Regal.
Renana holds an executive MBA in business management from IDC Herzliya.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03
