06 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Strong and distinctive Culture These help us to define and articulate the Having completed my first full year as common attributes which underpin our long track record of acting ethically and chairman of the board, I am delighted responsibly in our dealings both with external stakeholders and with each to introduce this years Annual Report.
They support the strong reputation we have built with customers, clients, partners, and other stakeholders, which is This has been another successful year for Business Model and Strategy critical to the long-term sustainability of Close Brothers, as we have continued to Close Brothers has a distinctive and our business.
deliver strong returns to our shareholders, long-established business model, and we while maintaining high levels of service for take a long-term, sustainable approach to Customer Engagement our customers and partners and strong every aspect of our business.
This means In the last year I have had the opportunity engagement and commitment from our maintaining prudent and consistent to experience first hand the genuine engagement our people have with employees.
underwriting standards, even in competitive markets, treating our customers and partners across our The group has delivered continued customers and partners fairly and businesses, and the diversity of our growth in profit and earnings, with a supporting and developing our customer base.
In all parts of our business, our personal approach and strong return on opening equity of 17.0%.
The business has continued The Banking businesses have continued to invest for the future so that we can local presence give us a deep to deliver growth at good returns in a continue to deliver value to our customers understanding of our customers needs competitive market.
Winterflood achieved and maximise opportunities over the and what they value most in our interaction with them.
another strong year and the Asset longterm.
Management business has made significant progress with strong growth We remain strongly committed to this During the year we have further in both client assets and profits.
distinctive model, which is deeply formalised our collection and analysis of customer feedback.
This has helped embedded in the organisation and in our The board is pleased to recommend a corporate culture.
At the same time, we us to understand better where our final dividend of 42.0p per share.
If constantly challenge ourselves on personal service matters most, and approved at the Annual General Meeting, strategy to ensure that our business where we can best use technology to improve our customers experience this will take the full-year dividend to continues to meet customers needs and 63.0p, a 5% increase on last year, in line maximise our business opportunities in and serve them more effectively with our progressive dividend policy.
The board has spent both now and in the future.
significant time debating the risks and A Talented and Diverse Workforce opportunities that arise from changing customer behaviour, technology, I have also been deeply impressed by regulation and the wider economic and the continued passion and engagement political environment, to ensure the of our people, in serving our clients and in Dividend per share doing the right thing for the organisation decisions we make today continue to deliver value in years to come.
and for the communities we interact with.
Building a deep and diverse talent pool, A Strong and Distinctive Culture and maintaining the engagement of our 63.0p people, remains a core strategic priority Across its diverse businesses and employee base, the group has a strong for the group.
2017: 60.0p and distinctive culture which recognises both a common sense of purpose and We also continue to make good progress on increasing the diversity of our the differentiation of our individual businesses.
During the last year the workforce.
During the year we have board has overseen work to develop a become signatories of the Women in statement of the groups overriding Finance Charter, with a target of 30% female senior managers by 2020, and purpose and the cultural attributes which support it: service, expertise and have further initiatives in place to extend relationships together with teamwork, our diversity beyond gender and to prudence and integrity.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 07 01 Our wider corporate responsibility is We remain strongly important to our people, and we maintain a range of programmes to support the committed to our causes that matter most to them, as well distinctive model, which is as promoting charitable work and community engagement amongst our deeply embedded in the wider employee base.
Some of these are detailed further in the Sustainability organisation and in our Report on pages 44 to 54.
Board Changes During the year, we announced that Jonathan Howell would be stepping down from his role as group finance director Michael N. Biggs following the Annual General Meeting in Chairman November, and on behalf of the board Iwould like to thank him for his very substantial contribution to the group over the last 10 years.
03 We were pleased to appoint Mike Morgan, chief financial officer of the groups Banking division, as his successor following an extensive search process.
Mike brings a wealth of experience and deep knowledge of the group, and his appointment ensures strong continuity in the management team.
Our Employees Finally, I would personally like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and very significant contribution over the last year.
Their relentless engagement and support is critical to delivering service to our clients and continuing to help the people and businesses of Britain thrive over the long term.
Michael N. Biggs Chairman 25 September 2018 Photographed on location at Alicat Workboats Ltd.
