Strategic report Chairmans statement Strength in diversity PERFORMANCE Henry Klotz, I am delighted to be able to report another Executive Chairman robust set of results which once again are an endorsement of CLSs strategy of focusing on geographical diversity as a long-term investor in the three largest economies in Europe: the UK, Germany and France.
During the year, EPRA NAV rose by 8.5% to 309.8 pence per share 31 December 2017: 285.6 pence.
As a result of this diversity, we are ready to face the prospect of Brexit-related macro uncertainty with great confidence in the underlying strength of the business.
PROPERTY PORTFOLIO In 2018, our property portfolio rose in value by 3.7% in local currencies, with an outstanding performance in Germany which saw an uplift of 9.3%.
At 31 December 2018, the portfolio was valued at just over 1.9 billion, of which 51% was in the UK, 33% in Germany and 16% in France.
For many years, we have benefited from our established presence in these markets.
In each we operate the same core strategy: a focus on office buildings in high quality, predominantly non-prime locations in larger cities and managed by our own staff.
Having our in-house management well-established in each local market remains key to our success as it allows us to establish strong relationships with our customers, gain a deep knowledge of their changing requirements, and ultimately improve the service we provide, to our mutual benefit.
It is also hugely important for new business opportunities to be fully integrated in the local property networks.
In 2018, we invested 70.0 million in acquisitions, primarily in London, where our confidence in the longer-term future provided opportunities to acquire at attractive prices.
06 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information the tradition in Germany and France has CULTURE BOARD CHANGES been to have more flexible leases than We continue to promote an open, John Whiteley, our Chief Financial Officer, in the UK, but our tenant base in the UK entrepreneurial culture for our who has been with us for almost ten has long enjoyed such flexibility, and we workforce, with an efficient decisionyears, has chosen to retire later this year expect this to continue.
making structure which engenders and the process to find his successor is responsibility and enables a hands-on well advanced.
I would like to thank John The key for us is to have a close operating process.
for his hard work and contribution to CLS relationship to our customers in order to over the years and to wish him well in his be well informed about and understand We enhance the communication new status as a young pensioner.
the evolving requirements for their within the organisation to engage our businesses.
The main risk that I see is employees: in 2018, we introduced an Malcolm Cooper, who joined the Board in if the demand for our premises in the in-house social media initiative.
In order May 2007 and is our Senior Independent UK were to decrease significantly, but to attract and retain high-quality talent, Director and Chairman of the Audit as we have a strong focus on keeping we have to understand and respect the Committee, has expressed a wish to the vacancy below 5%, and 43% of different business cultures in which we stand down in 2019, but to continue in our UK rental income is derived from operate and to dovetail our Group culture post to assist in the handover to his the UK Government, I believe the risk with that of local markets.
successor and to the new CFO.
The high levels of engagement within As Chairman, it is one of my primary The economic and political environment our team, levels of professionalism and responsibilities to ensure that the Board is as challenging to interpret as I have expert knowledge all make a tangible is effective in running the Company, known for some time.
The impact of contribution to the strength of our and that succession plans are in place Brexit on our business is, of course, organisation.
On behalf of the Board, I for all directors.
The composition of difficult to predict, but the spread of our would like to thank all of our employees our Board does not currently comply operations across the three strongest for their continued hard work and with the provisions of the Code in that it European economies places CLS at a commitment to the success of CLS.
does not have a majority of independent competitive advantage.
non-executive directors: indeed, this SUSTAINABILITY has always been the case, but this is We shall continue to follow our mediumOur aim is to be a leading sustainable exacerbated when non-executives have term strategy and long-term vision, business, and in 2018 we have taken been with us for more than nine years.
whilst constantly challenging both to every opportunity to invest in renewable A key focus of mine in 2018 has been to ensure they remain robust.
Our balance technology, such as additional hold discussions with the Board with a sheet is strong, our business well-placed, photovoltaic panels and thermodynamic view to refreshing the composition of the and we remain focused on continuing to heat pumps.
Our committed in-house non-executives in the short to medium deliver value to our shareholders.
team is dedicated to environmental term and broadening the experience issues across all our markets both within they bring to the Board, and I expect to CLS and in our local communities, and be able to announce progress on this in Henry Klotz we are working hard to implement best due course.
Executive Chairman practice in all areas.
Our corporate, social and environmental responsibility DIVIDEND report contains details of our work In line with our strategy that the dividend on sustainability and can be found on should be progressive and well-covered page 30. by EPRA earnings, the Board is pleased to propose a final dividend for 2018 of 4.7 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT pence per share, making the total for the Around 60% of the shares in the Company year of 6.9 pence, being 1.9 times covered are held by representatives of the by EPRA earnings and an increase over Board, and by engaging with external last year of 8.7%.
shareholders we typically are able to meet at least once a year with around OUTLOOK 90% of our shareholder base, and others In the UK there has been a trend for wishing to join it.
This is important: new market entrants in the property we meet most shareholders every six sector to provide very flexible leases months, and we consult with them although, with a question remaining on an ad hoc basis on specific topics, over the sustainability of their business such as directors remuneration.
In this models, this may now be slowing down.
way we are able to run the business We embrace these changes, which have with a mindset very much in step with had a positive impact on the way in which shareholders views.
people work due to the way some UK offices are designed.
For many years, CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 07
