Strategic Report Chairmans Statement We have strengthened the governance framework overthe last Focusing twoyears on our core The position today We can see the benefits of our improvement actions starting to come through across most of mission the business, particularly so in Mission Systems.
However, there has been a disappointing performance from Advanced Electronic Solutions.
We have therefore strengthened management, increased focus on execution and formulated an overhead cost reduction plan.
While Cobhams overall performance is benefiting from a firm sense of direction and management discipline, the turnaround was always going to require a number of years to complete, and our improvement journey will continue in 2019.
We have completed a number of divestments in the year, most notably exiting the wireless test and measurement market, bringing more coherence, and less volatility, to our portfolio.
As a result, we now have a more focused defence, aerospace and space business.
By 31 December 2018, we had eliminated the Groups gearing, reporting a modest net cash position.
This achievement was in part a result of the divestment proceeds, in part thanks to the 2017 contribution from shareholders, but also due to an ongoing focus on cash, with work continuing to shape a truly cash-focused culture.
Again, there is work left to do, in particular to resolve our remaining contingent liabilities.
However, today Cobham has demonstrably a much stronger balance sheet.
We are also making progress resolving our previously reported contingent liabilities.
As part of this we settled all the disputed matters relating to the Boeing KC-46 tanker programme damages assertions in February 2019.
At the same time, we agreed a revised hose and drogue qualification and production schedule, although this is dependent on receiving key third party approvals, and reassessed the remaining risks on the programme.
The 2018 financial impacts from this settlement 4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Five reasons to invest in Cobham have been set out in more detail in the Chief When considering the need for Board refresh, I 1.
Executive Officers Statement, which follows.
have always tried to balance, as an overriding Deep technical expertise, principle, the need for continuity and stability differentiation and significant Separately, we have set out in note 30 on page 147 with the need for change.
In 2017, John McAdam intellectual property enabling an ongoing tax dispute, relating to interest was recruited as the Senior Independent Director.
Cobham to do things others cant to deductions on one of the Groups financing John has a wealth of experience on a number of deliver capabilities that are critical to arrangements.
The Group is actively involved in FTSE 100 boards.
I am particularly grateful to him our customers attempting to resolve this matter ahead of a for deputising as Chairman during my 2018 Tribunal hearing scheduled for autumn 2019. surgery and recuperation.
Leading market positions, offering We also announced in August 2018 that the Furthermore, Ren Mdori, Norton Schwarz and the potential for superior returns  Financial Conduct Authority had discontinued its Marion Blakey joined the Board in 2018.
They have investigation into the Companys compliance with brought in-depth experience of financial matters, 3. the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules our end-user community and aviation regulation and the Market Abuse Regulations between April and administration respectively.
All have operated Broad international demand fortheGroups capabilities and 2016 and February 2017. at the highest levels in their fields.
In addition, know-how from a range of Alison Wood remains on the Board, offering long marketsincluding government Given the strengthening financial position and experience, in particular of matters relating to andcommercial customers improving performance, the Board has approved a strategy and risk.
Today, the Board has the relevant new capital allocation policy.
This is built on a experience from which to support and 4. prudent gearing level and prioritises organic constructively challenge the Executives.
Further Positions in markets with significant investment in the business.
The Board intends to details on the skills and experience of the Nonbarriers to entry including lengthy reinstate a dividend payment with the 2019 executives are contained in the Corporate and expensive qualification, complex regulationand a need interims at a prudent level.
The Board anticipates a Governance section on pages 52 and 53. foraproven reputation first full-year payment of 1.0p per ordinary share, based on our 2019 expectations.
The Board In addition, the anticipated Board governance 5. intends to grow the dividend progressively, while framework evaluation was completed, resulting in A focus on operational ensuring an appropriate level of projected earnings the implementation of enhancements.
Changes improvementwith quality, on-time and free cash flow cover.
include more time spent on strategic matters and on delivery and efficiency expected to strengthening the Boards knowledge of the Group.
drive an increase in the operating The Nomination Committee has been restructured margin with enhanced delivery and re-energised, and we now have a Board Risk alsostimulating revenue growth The journey Committee, comprising a mix of Executive and When I became Chairman, just over two years Non-executive Directors.
ago, it was against a very different and challenging backdrop.
This included elevated gearing We also have a much stronger succession planning Chairman succession and a need to strengthen operational and process, with a clearer view of strengths and When I was originally appointed Chairman, I said it financialdiscipline.
weaknesses and a path to remedy identified gaps.
would be for a term lasting a little over two years.
I have always said that done properly, succession Having led the Board through a period of significant From the outset, it was clear significant actions were planning takes time to embed, and longer to bear change and having been a Director of Cobham needed.
These included supporting the transition of fruit.
However, I feel confident we now have the since December 2010, I have informed the Board of the new Executive management team, to create the foundations from which we can nurture and my intention to step down as Chairman.
A search conditions to support their future success, as well as promote future leaders.
for my successor is now underway and it is intended a need to strengthen the Balance Sheet.
that I will leave the Board by the end of 2019.
The Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions In addition, a programme of material change was CAES board was further strengthened by the needed to re-invigorate the Board through the addition of General Chilton, former head of US appointment of experienced Non-executives.
CAES governance reflects Looking forward undertook to perform a review of the Boards proper adherence to our Special Security There is work left to do but much to be optimistic governance framework.
An enhanced succession Agreement SSA which enables CAES to participate about.
I am confident, based on the sound planning process was also required to help develop in US government classified programmes.
There foundations laid, that 2019 will be another year of future managers from within.
were also changes made to the executive team.
progress with the turnaround gaining traction to build on the Groups traditional strengths.
As I have said, Cobhams financial and operational In summary, I am proud of what we have done to Whentaken together, these provide the Board performance is now showing an improving trend strengthen the Groups governance framework, with confidence in Cobhams medium and longer under the new leadership, with relentless focus on consistent with the priorities I previously laid out.
customers, on operational improvement priorities Of course, we could not achieve anything and on cash generation, which must always lie at meaningful without our employees, and their the heart of how the Group is run.
We have also expertise and hard work have been instrumental in launched a new purpose and behaviours, which our progress.
Their deep domain knowledge and complements this progress.
technical expertise, together with their dedication Michael Wareing and a willingness to make hard yards, have always Chairman impressed the Board and we offer our appreciation.
