CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Consistent performance transition was seamless and Dominic has led the organisation resolutely to deliver another excellent set of results.
Together with the Board, he also reviewed and refreshed our strategy, which he presented to investors in May.
The strategy, characterised by continuity and evolution, has ourcorefood business at its heart.
We will continue to drive  by delivering great food to clients andconsumers combined with a rigorous focus on execution.
Asweseek to improve the quality and sustainability of our financial resultswe will be putting even more emphasis on people and social purpose.
Ourperformance in 2018 reaffirms the Boards confidence in thestrategy and business model, which are central to our long termsuccess see pages 10 to 13.
Our Group Finance Director, Johnny Thomson, will stand down fromhis role at the end of 2018.
We are very grateful to Johnny for his significant contribution to Compass over the last nine years and wish him all the very best for the future.
Karen Witts will succeed Johnnyas Group Chief Financial Officer.
Karen, who joins us from Kingfisher PLC, has financial and operational expertise that is highlycomplementary to our team and brings with her a wealth Paul Walsh ofexperience in retail and technology.
We very much look forward Chairman toworking with Karen as we continue to execute our strategy and create value for shareholders.
ANOTHER EXCELLENT YEAR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2018 was another excellent year for Compass as we continued Our people are central to our ability to achieve our goals in a tocreate value by delivering consistent and sustainable financial responsible and sustainable manner.
Two years ago, we sharpened results.
Revenues in North America once again grew strongly, our focus on this important area to support the longer term ambition performance in Europe accelerated and Rest of World progressed of our business and stakeholders.
As part of this strategic review, well.
Margins improved further as we continued to focus on pricing we agreed to proactively support the UN Sustainable Development and efficiencies.
Details of our operational and financial performance Goals SDGs and selected those where we believe that we can can be found on pages 10 to 34. make the most positive impact.
There is still much more to do but I am pleased with the progress that we have made so far.
We owe our success to our colleagues all over the world.
com for more performance is testimony to their passion and commitment to about our activities.
Compass and I would like to once again thank them for their hard work during the year.
GOVERNANCE AND THE BOARD Companies today are judged by their integrity and trustworthiness SHAREHOLDER RETURNS as much as by their financial performance.
One of my key As a result of our strong performance, the Board is recommending a responsibilities as Chairman is to set the tone for Compass and 13.9% increase in the final dividend for the year of 25.4 pence per ensure good governance see pages 44 to 100.
In this I have been share 2017: 22.3 pence per share.
This results in a total dividend extremely well supported by the members of the Board.
With their for the year of 37.7 pence per share 2017: 33.5 pence per share, diverse backgrounds, they bring balance and a wealth of skills and an increase of 12.5%.
The final dividend will be paid on 25 February experience to our organisation that complements the talents of our 2019 to shareholders on the register on 18 January 2019. executive team.
I thank them all for their valuable contribution as we SUCCESSION AND STRATEGY continue to maintain oversight of the strategic, operational and compliance risks across the Group, define our path to success and On 31 December 2017, Richard Cousins, our long-standing uphold the high standards expected of us.
Chief Executive whose retirement was planned for 31 March 2018, died tragically in a plane crash.
We were all deeply shocked and In May 2018, we announced the appointments of Mrs Annesaddened by Richards passing.
It was a great privilege to have Francoise Nesmes and Mr John Bryant as non-executive directors known him personally and to work with him these last few years.
with effect from 1 July and 1 September 2018 respectively.
These appointments form part of an ongoing review of Board membership As a result of Richards untimely death, Dominic Blakemores to ensure that an appropriate number of independent non-executive appointment as Chief Executive was advanced from 1 April 2018 to directors is maintained through orderly succession and without 1 January 2018.
Despite taking over in such sad circumstances, the 8 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT compromising the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
POSITION IN FTSE 100 INDEX Don Roberts nine year term of appointment came to an end on AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 8May 2018 and he retired from the Board on 31 May 2018.
John Bason became the Senior Independent Director from 1 June 2018 20 in succession to Don.
2017: 25 We are delighted to welcome Anne-Francoise and John to the COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE Board.
I am confident that their backgrounds and experience will beinvaluable assets to support the Company over the coming years.
VS FTSE 100 OVER LAST 3 YEARS % Iwould also like to thank Don for his outstanding contribution to Compass over the last nine years and to welcome John as the Last 12 months 7.8% newSenior Independent Director.
5.9% 1.9% Last 24 months 14.1% SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK 5.3% 8.9% Compass had another very strong year.
Revenue growth was Last 36 months healthy, driven by excellent growth in North America, an 62.0% 38.1% acceleration in Europe and good progress in Rest of World.
23.9% We continue to drive operating efficiencies around the business Compass FTSE 100 rebased andwere able to move the margin slightly forward, with improvements in Rest of World offsetting a more difficult volume COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE andcost environment in Europe, especially the UK.
VS FTSE 100 INDEX Given the excellent cash generation and overall strength of the Group, we have invested in the business to support the exciting long 2017 2018 18 term growth opportunities we see.
At the same time, we continued to reward our shareholders with strong dividend growth while reducing our leverage back to our target of 1.5x net debt to EBITDA.
17 We are making progress with our strategy to focus on Performance, People and Purpose.
We have codified our best practices around 16 the Group and will now use our Management and Performance MAP framework to roll them out across our larger markets.
15 We are actively managing the portfolio to increase our focus on foodand are in the process of disposing of up to 5% of revenues innon-core businesses.
We continually look at bolt-on acquisition 14 Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept opportunities that strengthen our offer and meet our strict Compass FTSE 100 rebased returnscriteria.
Our expectations for FY2019 are positive.
The pipeline of new contracts is strong and our focus on organic growth, efficiencies and cash gives us confidence in achieving another year of progress.
We expect organic growth to be in the middle of our 4-6% range with modest margin progression.
In the longer term, we remain excited about the significant structuralgrowth opportunities globally, the potential for further revenue growth and margin improvement, combined with further returns to shareholders.
Paul Walsh Chairman 20 November 2018 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 9
