ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 08 Chairmans letter I am pleased to provide an update onContourGlobals exciting and largely successful first full calendar year following our IPO inNovember 2017.
Financially, 2018 was a year of strong 1.
Disciplined, opportunistic In January 2019 we announced the progress for the Company Adjusted approachtoallocating capital acquisition of two natural gas-fired EBITDA grew 19% to $610.1 million, which The merger and acquisition environment combined heat and power plants in Mexico was consistent with our guidance at the inthe power market remains active and with a capacity of 518 MW.
Strategically, we made significant this provides the Company with the advances our strategy to pursue highprogress pursuing and executing on opportunity to deliver high value growth quality accretive growth in contracted ourpipeline of attractive acquisition, aslong as we remain disciplined and cashflows from creditworthy counterdevelopment and repowering selective in our approach.
We are also parties inthis case, Mexican industrial opportunities we are ahead of the starting to realize potential in our companies.
Subject to shareholder timeline we presented in our IPO greenfield projects.
approval, the transaction is expected prospectus and remain excited about toclose in the first half of 2019 and future prospects forgrowth.
We also In May 2018, we completed the acquisition Ilookforward to reporting on the continued to achieve an outstanding of a 250 MW concentrated solar power teamsprogress with the integration healthand safety record, added capability CSP operating portfolio in Spain our ofthisacquisition in next years report.
to our already strong management team, largest acquisition to date.
Because the and continued to add expertise to our seller was confident that ContourGlobal All three of these projects are consistent Board.
We took advantage of the robust would close in a timely manner, we were with our disciplined, opportunistic private capital markets in infrastructure able to negotiate the transaction on approach to investing capital and they andsold minority stakes intwo Renewable abilateral basis and avoid an auction should produce strong risk-adjusted portfolios at attractive premiums to cost.
This resulted in both certainty returns forthe Companys shareholders Public equity markets, however, have forthe seller and an attractive riskformany years to come.
We expect our beenchallenging while we have ample adjustedinvestment for ContourGlobal.
pipeline to remain robust for the next liquidity and can bepatient, we are This acquisition is expected to generate several years.
However, if that changes, disappointed that the Companys share strong, regulated cash flows for the next wewill not hesitate to meaningfully 17years.
In part because of this transaction, price does not reflect ourview of accelerate the return of capital to theintrinsic value of the Company and the our Renewable division accounted for shareholders.
progress we have madesince our IPO.
about half of our 2018 Adjusted EBITDA.
Weremain confident that if we continue to execute value-creating projects, the share We also made significant progress on THE MERGER AND price will begin to reflect ContourGlobals our500MW Kosovo greenfield lignite ACQUISITION ENVIRONMENT intrinsic value.
Our next milestones will be theaward of the IN THE POWER MARKET In last years letter, I highlighted the engineering, procurement and REMAINS ACTIVE AND importance of two aspects of construction EPC contract andthe ContourGlobals approach and both finalization of the project financing THISPROVIDES THE proved crucial to our success in 2018. arrangements.
Construction ofthis project, COMPANYWITH THE which is critical to the improvement in Kosovos air quality and economic growth, OPPORTUNITY TO DELIVER is expected to begin by the end of2019.
Proven ability to create Board appointments WE EXPECT OUR valuepostacquisition As mentioned in last years report, we PIPELINETO REMAIN The combination of a our focus on appointed Ruth Cairnie as an independent generating long-term contracted and Non-Executive Director in January 2018, ROBUST FOR THE regulated cash flows, and b our teams and we recently appointed Mariana NEXTSEVERAL YEARS.
proven ability to create incremental Gheorghe as an additional independent , has generated Non-Executive Director with effect from HOWEVER, IF THAT significant interest from financial 30thJune 2019.
Mariana has significant CHANGES, WE WILL investment partners seeking to make experience in the energy sector and in passive, minority investments in some eastern Europe.
I am confident that the NOTHESITATE TO ofour assets.
These farm-downs Board has the right balance of skills MEANINGFULLY andexperience to support the Company significantly bolster our project returns andproduce a meaningful amount of inthenext stage of its development.
Depending on the timing and the RETURNOF CAPITAL magnitude of the cash produced from Corporate governance these farm-downs, it will either be ContourGlobal has always had a strong TOSHAREHOLDERS.
re-invested into our robust pipeline culture of compliance but we recognize orreturned to shareholders.
that we can never be complacent.
Oursystems, policies and procedures, Subsequent to the acquisition of our upgraded in 2017 to support the robust Spanish CSP portfolio, in December 2018 governance structure required of a we entered into an agreement with Credit listedcompany, continued to develop Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners throughout the year.
CSEIP, one of the leaders in infrastructure investing in Europe, to sell 49% of the Dividend portfolio at an attractive premium to our Given the strong performance in 2018 cost.
We expect the transaction to be andtaking into account the strength of completed in the first half of 2019: this ourbalance sheet, the Board is proposing achievement will allow us to crystallize a final dividend above the high end of significant value shortly after acquisition.
The Board is This transaction followed the successful pleased to propose a final dividend of completion of the sale of 49% of our Italian 9.4cents US dollar perordinary share.
and Slovakian solar photovoltaic portfolio The dividend will be paid, subject to to the same partner.
In both cases, we will shareholder approval, on30thMay 2019 retain operational control and receive toshareholders on theregister at ongoing operational and maintenance 3rdMay2019.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to We also entered into a development thank our management team and all of our agreement with CSEIP which provides employees for their continued dedication mutually beneficial opportunities for value and hard work.
creation in the Italian and Slovakian solar sector.
We welcome the opportunity to Craig A. Huff collaborate with a long-term financial Chairman partner that values our strong .
