Chairmans letter Sir Christopher Gent Chairman Dear Shareholder Developments during the year Paul Moraviec decided to retire as Chief Executive Officer CEO 2018 performance in October 2018.
The Board was pleased to appoint Rick Anderson I regret that for the second consecutive year ConvaTec has delivered as Interim CEO until a permanent candidate for the role has been a disappointing performance.
We have not met shareholders and identified.
Rick has 25 years of senior executive leadership the Boards expectations and we have not capitalised on the Groups experience in the medical device industry.
Having served as a leading positions in growing chronic care markets.
While the core Non-Executive Director on our Board since our IPO, Rick also has strengths of our business remain unchanged, our strategy has not immediate and close knowledge of ConvaTec.
Further information been effectively executed.
The Chief Executive Officers review on about his background is set out on page 80.
The search to find a page 8 provides a detailed explanation of the issues that we permanent successor for the CEO role is ongoing.
encountered during the year in this regard, and the immediate steps that the Board and the Executive Committee are implementing to The Board mandated Rick to develop a plan to transform the address the Groups performance.
Groups commercial and operational performance.
He, together with the Executive Committee, has undertaken an extensive review of Despite this disappointing performance, on a reported basis the our strategy and business and has developed a refreshed execution Group generated an operating profit of $268 million on an adjusted model to better capitalise on our core strengths and market basis, $429 million on revenue of $1,832 million, and generated opportunities and deliver sustainable profitable growth and cash flow from operating activities of $352 million.
The Group long-term value for all stakeholders.
Further information about remains financially sound with a robust balance sheet and net assets our refreshed execution model is set out on pages 28 to 31. of $1,617 million, including net debt of $1,305 million.
The Board remains confident in the Groups ability to improve both revenue In addition, Rick has continued to strengthen our management team growth and operating margins.
The fundamentals of our business and I am delighted to welcome Supratim Bose as Executive Vice and the markets in which ConvaTec operates support this view.
President and President, APAC and David Shepherd as President, However, in the short term, there is a requirement to invest in the Advanced Wound Care to ConvaTec, as well as congratulating Groups core capabilities and processes, to enable it to take George Poole as the new President of the Americas Region.
advantage of and deliver on our potential as well as to address the failures in execution which have led to a diminution in the Groups The Board and governance value.
Consequently, 2019 will see a lower operating margin.
In July, our strategic investor Novo Holdings A S, who is entitled to nominate a Non-Executive Director to serve on our Board, advised Dividend that it wished to change its Board representative.
Accordingly, Kasim Reflecting our view on the potential of the Group over the medium Kutay resigned as a Non-Executive Director in July and was replaced to long term and its financial strength, the Board is proposing a final by Sten Scheibye.
Sten has significant healthcare experience.
His dividend of 3.983 cents per share in respect of 2018, subject to previous roles include serving as President and CEO of Coloplast shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2019.
Further information about Stens This is in addition to the Companys first interim dividend of 1.717 background is set out on page 81. cents per share, which was declared on 2 August 2018.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 5.700 cents per share, in line with our With effect from 1 January 2019, Ros Rivaz and Regina Benjamin dividend policy to target a payout ratio of 35% to 45% of adjusted assumed responsibility for Board-led employee engagement.
Information about the programme of activities they will undertake is included on page 99.
06 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 I regret that for the second consecutive year ConvaTec has delivered a disappointing performance.
ConvaTec is a fundamentally sound business and we now have a refreshed execution model to ensure the Group better capitalises on its core strengths and market opportunities.
Corporate responsibility Governance highlights Our Purpose is to improve the lives of the people we touch, and Information about our governance framework and how it supports this sets the context for our approach to CR.
Our most important our strategy is set out on pages 78 and 79.
Key governance activities stakeholders are the people who experience the various chronic during the year included: conditions that our products and services aim to help enabling them to live an improved life by giving them more confidence, The Board mobility and freedom.
Our task in meeting their needs is constantly Reviewed strategy and commissioned the development of a plan growing as populations in developed markets age, as the users of to improve commercial and operational performance.
our products live longer, and as more people in developing Approved refreshed execution model.
economies demand improved healthcare options.
We aim to meet Participated in externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
this increasing demand for our products in ways which also generate value for other stakeholder groups such as healthcare professionals Nomination Committee and administrators, our shareholders, our employees and the people Considered interim leadership arrangements.
who work in our supply chains, whilst respecting the natural Undertaking global search to identify new CEO.
environment on which we all rely.
Approved Board-led employee engagement process.
Reviewed the Groups new people strategy.
We are making good progress in our CR programme and have seen continued improvement in the external assessment of our Further information on page 86. performance, including our entrance to the FTSE4Good Index Series in June.
We believe our main challenge now lies in Audit and Risk Committee strengthening our approach to environmental protection.
We have Reviewed transition of certain Group functions from the US approved a new climate change strategy which seeks to limit the to the UK.
environmental impact of our operations and our products and Considered Financial Reporting Councils reviews.
packaging, and to better identify business vulnerabilities driven Oversaw improvements in management information and by environmental issues.
As Chairman of our CR Committee, I receive regular progress Further information on page 90. reports on implementation of the programme and you can read more about the activity of this Committee on page 100.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Reviewed inaugural climate change strategy.
Our employees Reviewed CR positioning against best practice and peer In a difficult period, our employees have continued to serve and performance.
deliver for our customers and I wish to pay tribute to their hard work and to the contribution that they continue to make in achieving our Further information on page 100.
They will play a key role in delivering the improvements in our performance which we now plan and I wish to place on record Remuneration Committee the Boards gratitude for all of our employees continuing dedication Agreed retirement arrangements for Paul Moraviec.
Ensured remuneration arrangements appropriately support retention and motivation of executive team members.
In conclusion Considered impact of share price performance on LTIP allocation Your Board continues to believe that ConvaTec is a fundamentally for 2019. sound business with good potential for growth and creation of shareholder value in the long term and is committed to providing the Further information on page 102. resources, capabilities and investment required to achieve this.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 14 February 2019 07 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
