Strategic report Chairmans statement I am delighted to report on another year of significant progress in2018, which marked 60years since Countryside was founded.
We were the UKs fastest-growing listed Our Housebuilding division continued to Returns to shareholders gainscaleduring the year, increasing completion homebuilder during the year, exceeding the targets After another year of strong profit growth, we set at the time of our Initial Public Offering numbers by seven per cent and improving margins theBoard proposes a final dividend of 6.6 pence through enhanced operational efficiency.
Subject to approval at the Annual thesuccess of our differentiated business model successfully managed our ASP to remain relevant General Meeting AGM on 24 January 2019, and accessible to our core target audience and commitment to creating Places People Love.
the dividend will bepaid on 8 February 2019 We see further opportunities for future growth, .
to shareholders registered at 21 December 2018. which form the basis for our new medium-term Together with the interim dividend of 4.2pence Our financial and operational results for targets outlined at our Capital Markets Day per share, this will give a total dividend of theyearwere excellent, leading the sector in inJune 2018.
both earnings and completions growth.
Improving efficiencies across our business, particularly within Accelerating growth Priorities of the Board our Housebuilding business, enabled us once We acquired Westleigh during the year, more to exceed our ROCE target.
The Board regards corporate governance accelerating the growth of our Partnerships asakey discipline that supports our aim Despite the significant investments made during divisionin line with our mixed-tenure approach ofincreasing value for our shareholders by the year, our balance sheet remains strong and and expanding our geographic reach into Yorkshire continually improving Group performance.
we continue to have clear visibility over our and the East Midlands.
We also moved to improve During 2018, we focused on further refining future growth plans.
We ended the year with efficiency and build greater resilience in the supply Group strategy, with particular emphasis on the asecure balance sheet and 45m of net cash.
chain by investing in a closed-panel timber frame role of the Partnerships division as protection Our forward order position and pipeline in factory.
See page 15 for full details.
against any future slowdown in the housing both divisions are very strong, positioning market.
We also conducted a wide-ranging uswell to continue delivering against our Board evaluation exercise see page 50 for ambitious growth plans.
As we enter 2019, our key areas of focus continue to be to support implementation ofthe Groups business strategy, to enhance succession planning for the Board and Executive Committee and to embed corporate governance and risk mitigation plans further across the business.
Various Board changes took place during the year.
Federico Cancianis last day of service was 5December 2017, Richard Adam stepped down on 31 December 2017, and Douglas Hurt joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
On 1 October 2018, we announced that Becky Worthington had been appointed Chief Operating Officer and Mike Scott was promoted to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
I wish them both well in their new roles.
Our people As at 30 September 2018, we had over 1,800 employees, which is a more than 50 per cent increase on a year ago, largely driven by the Westleigh acquisition.
We recognise that our people are the most important factor in delivering planned future growth and maintaining quality, satisfaction and safety standards.
Inresponse tothelabour-supply issues faced by the industry, wetherefore concentrated ondeveloping people at all levels, as well as investing in a new modular build factory in Warrington.
We also continued to recruit apprentices, graduates and trainees in significant numbers.
Once again, I would like to thank our customers and our partners during the year, and every one of our employees for all their hard work and commitment to our business.
David Howell Chairman 20 November 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 5
