Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OUR CULTURE STAKEHOLDER ALIGNMENT AND ENGAGEMENT A BUSINESS BUILT ON OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES TO SUCCEED IN OUR VISION OF BEING THE WORLDS MOST SUSTAINABLE MEAT BUSINESS, WE WORK WITH A WIDE RANGE OF STAKEHOLDERS.
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES, SET OUT OPPOSITE, ALIGN CLOSELY WITH THEIR REQUIREMENTS.
QUALITY VALUE INNOVATION PEOPLE We are passionate about We continue to make value We have dedicated teams We create a supportive We recognise the importance of regular engagement with our stakeholders to ensure we capture and embrace feedback high quality, great tasting adding acquisitions and to researching consumer but entrepreneurial and emerging trends.
We focus on invest heavily in operating trends and food innovation environment, which allows premium quality products facilities enabling us to opportunities across the both individuals and the Our key stakeholders and the ways in which we engage with them are detailed below: and categories, using offer innovative, high globe.
We constantly business to prosper.
We authentic, artisan quality, great value food research and test new work closely with our processes wherever to our customers from recipes and ideas, allowing customers to develop new possible to maintain the some of the most efficient us to deliver creative food products for the rapidly SHAREHOLDERS heritage and integrity food production facilities concepts to our customers.
changing retail of our food.
Requirements REGULATORS PRODUCERS AND SUPPLIERS Return on investment Requirements Requirements Strong governance Adherence to food safety standards Responsible, sustainable procurement Sustainability Traceability of products Long-term relationships Engagement Meet environmental regulations Focus on ethical standards and animal Results presentations and post-results welfare Engagement meetings Regular audits and inspections Engagement Annual report and accounts and AGM Proactive engagement with regulatory Collaboration with pig producer groups Corporate website bodies Supplier audits Collaboration to create a robust Sharing of ethical data through SEDEX Read more on page 83. regulatory landscape Read more on pages 22 and 23.
CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS COMMUNITIES Requirements Requirements Innovative and tasty food Positive local impact of operations PEOPLE High quality products Sustainable use of resources Dedicated, sustainable supply chains Job opportunities Requirements Engagement Engagement Learning and development Management of customer relationships Support for local charities Career opportunities New product development partnering Engagement with local schools, colleges and Health and safety C ollaboration on sustainability objectives university Engagement Employee volunteering Works Committees Appraisal and training processes Staff surveys Read more on pages 16 and 17.
Read more on page 37. have over 40 apprentice butchers DEVELOPING TALENT learning traditional knife skills in a Our passionate and dedicated Read more on pages 26 and 27. dedicated area of the butchery hall.
employees have driven the growth During the two year programme this of our business and have helped practical, hands on experience is to create a unique culture across combined with studying at college.
On completion of the course, our apprentices will move into permanent Our commitment to the recruitment, EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT full-time roles with the potential to training and development of our During the year we performed a comprehensive internal materiality The overriding goal of this process was to intensify employee dialogue, progress into management positions.
workforce is demonstrated by our study to identify the most important sustainability topics for our to gather opinions, expectations and ideas, and to consider these new apprenticeship programme, employees.
The survey was performed by an external consultant in relation to our business operations.
We also wanted to better Due to the success of the with over 90 apprentices currently to ensure impartiality and secure the anonymity of the respondents.
understand the impact of current and future global sustainability programme, we are planning to being trained within our business.
Each key operating site was visited with both online and offline surveys challenges on our employees, and to help manage these by finding extend the scheme to double the Our apprentices, many of whom completed by our employees.
We also identified those employees number of apprenticeship places are recruited from local schools who actively want to support and participate in our new sustainability in order to support the continued and colleges, learn new skills whilst programme Second Nature.
We were overwhelmed by the response growth plans of the business.
working within our production Read more about our new sustainability with over 600 employees stepping forward to be our Change Makers.
initiative on pages 34 and 35. facilities.
At our Fresh Pork primary processing facility in Hull, we currently 8 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 9 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE We have delivered a strong financial We strive to improve our core offer, recognising INVESTING IN A SUSTAINABLE Our commitment to animal welfare was performance for the year and made further that consumers tastes and expectations BUSINESS MODEL recognised by us retaining our Tier 1 ranking in progress in delivering our strategy.
We grew continue to evolve.
Innovation is an essential We have always ensured that our business the 2017 global Business Benchmark on Farm like-for-like revenue by 13 per cent and strand of this process and we successfully model reflects our commitment to corporate, Animal Welfare BBFAW.
The BBFAW report increased adjusted profit before tax by developed and launched new Ready to Cook social and environmental responsibility.
recognised Cranswick as one of only five 22 per cent.
and Slow Cook ranges for one of our lead During the year, following extensive internal companies globally to have achieved the customers.
We also work tirelessly throughout and external stakeholder engagement, highest Tier 1 level.
INVESTING IN OUR ASSET BASE the year to ensure we can offer our customers we launched our Second Nature initiative.
During the year we spent a record 59 million and consumers innovative and authentic I am delighted at the level of engagement we INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE across our already well invested asset base.
products over the peak Christmas trading encountered both from our own colleagues We have made further strong progress This brings the total investment in our period.
in developing and enhancing our talent infrastructure over the last eight years programme.
We need to ensure that we to over 270 million.
INVESTING IN VALUE ADDING INVESTING IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN have the capability and depth of resource to CORPORATE ACTIVITY Our vertical supply chains in both pork support the growth and development of the Our new 28 million Continental Products A key component of our strategy is to and chicken are essential components business.
We continue to invest heavily in our facility in Bury, Lancashire is currently being complement our organic growth drivers with of our business model.
We own our own pig apprenticeship programme and now have over commissioned.
This has been our largest value adding acquisitions.
Whilst this remains breeding and rearing operations and fully 90 apprentices in roles across the Group.
Our OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS capital project to date and gives us an asset a key objective, the last financial year was a integrated chicken supply chain including graduate programme continues to attract which underscores our commitment to period of consolidation after a very busy period milling, hatchery and growing operations.
Our well-established developing this fast-growing sector.
of corporate activity in the year to March 2017. per cent of the British pigs and 100 per cent training and development programmes have, We made good progress in assimilating and of the chickens we process are from our own this year, been augmented by establishing In November we announced our plans to developing both our Crown Chicken and farms.
We will continue to invest in both supply a mentoring programme to support career build a new chicken processing facility in Eye, Ballymena businesses which were acquired in chains to ensure that we are able to give our progression and personal development.
Our HIGH QUALITY OPERATING Suffolk.
We will spend over 50 million on April and November 2016 respectively.
Both customers and consumers the confidence that people are our greatest asset and I would like PRODUCTS EXCELLENCE the plant and we have committed to further businesses have made pleasing progress.
We our pork and chicken products are sourced to thank our highly skilled and committed substantial investment in our upstream have lifted output from our Ballymena facility from animals that have been sustainably colleagues for their enthusiasm and support We produce high quality Continued investment agricultural operations to ensure that we have by 50 per cent and we have ambitious growth and ethically reared.
in driving our business forward so successfully.
food, safely, in technically ensures that our factories a sustainable supply chain to serve the new plans for our Crown Chicken business.
and legally compliant are some of the most processing facility.
We received confirmation in INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES facilities.
efficient food production April of this year that our planning application INVESTING IN NEW MARKETS As a large employer we recognise that we facilities in the UK.
had been approved and we are now preparing We remain firmly focused on developing our are a focal point for the communities in which the site in readiness for the build project.
We saw some of the heat come our operations are based.
In East Yorkshire, investment will give us an industry leading out of the Chinese market after a very buoyant East Anglia and the other regions where our asset and will more than double our current period a year earlier but our like-for-like volume facilities are situated, we take a proactive capacity as well as extending our capability performance improved quarter by quarter and approach to supporting local initiatives.
to offer a broad range of added value fresh returned to growth in the second half of the In 2017 we were a City Partner to Hull, UK Read more on pages 20 to 23.
Read more on pages 24 to 27. chicken products.
We received the positive confirmation, City of Culture.
We also engage extensively last autumn, that Northern Ireland had been with local schools and colleges by providing We also continue to invest heavily across our granted approval for direct exports to China mentoring programmes, offering interview broader asset base to ensure that our facilities and, at the same time, that our Hull facility workshops and through raising awareness and operations remain fit for the future.
had also been given approval to ship more of the food industry.
These approvals INVESTING IN OUR CORE BUSINESS had little impact on the period under review Over the last 12 months we have strengthened We continue to support our strategic retail but leave us well placed to continue to develop our asset base, enhanced market positions and SALES GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY partners in our core categories.
Business our Far Eastern export trade going forward.
We secured under long term supply agreements We continue to explore new markets, both in continue to make good progress against each of Our long-term sales We invest heavily to secure enables us to focus on delivering high quality the Far East and globally and have developed our strategic objectives and we are well placed growth strategy is to our supply chains and products and to drive category innovation trade routes into Japan, Australia, New to continue our successful development in the consolidate existing provide career which are both precursors to successfully Zealand and Canada.
current financial year and over the longer term.
market positions, develop opportunities to our growing our core business.
new products and employees, and these channels, and grow our investments provide We processed record pig numbers through our international operations confidence that we three primary processing facilities with much and customer base.
have a long-term of the output being transferred to our added Organic growth initiatives sustainable business.
value businesses for conversion into premium are complemented by products for our customers.
Chief Executive Read more on pages 28 to 31.
22 May 2018 10 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 11
