4 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Chairmans statement 2018 has been a landmark year for CYBG with the continued delivery of our strategy and the well-executed acquisition of Virgin Money.
This sets us up for an exciting future that I believe will deliver real value for shareholders and create a powerful force in UK banking.
2018 was another year of strong progress A value deeply ingrained in our heritage is for CYBG, with the continued execution our commitment to supporting the Clear alignment in cultures against our organic strategic pillars communities we serve.
2018 has seen provides opportunity to sustainable customer growth, efficiency another strong year of support provided by leverage the strengths of and capital optimisation while at the our colleagues with, for instance, 2,000 same time delivering the Virgin Money hours of volunteering time across our both businesses acquisition.
This was the Groups first range of community projects: a further Brand cultural alignment between acquisition, not to mention the UKs first year of fundraising for Hospice UK with businesses major public bank acquisition since the 6.5m now raised during our 10-year Balanced approach planned to integration financial crisis.
The hard work and focus of partnership: an impressive 500k raised by strategy the Board, Executive Leadership Team and almost 300 colleagues sleeping out in aid Building a best of both model will leverage all of our colleagues during this time has of Social Bites campaign to end talent of both CYBG and Virgin Money been impressive,.
It gives me great homelessness: and the much-needed colleagues confidence that we have the right team in support we provide for critical front-line place to lead us through the next phase of services for the most remote areas with our transformation.
The Groups continued successful delivery Given the contribution our colleagues means that I am pleased to announce that make, it is only right that CYBG in turn the Board is recommending the payment of does its utmost to take care of them.
The an increased ordinary dividend of 3.1p per introduction of our first Well-being in the share.
When we paid our inaugural dividend Workplace survey has shown our 12 months ago, I talked about how this commitment to creating an inclusive, safe represented a landmark event in the and healthy environment where people can process of transforming CYBG into a bank excel.
The relaunch of our mental health personally thank David Browne, who that generates and distributes a sustainable awareness training module and People retired from the Board in June, for his return on its equity to shareholders.
The Leader toolkit has also helped ensure contribution over the past six years.
payment of this years dividend, a trebling of colleagues feel supported and have the last years, is true to this aspiration.
The right tools available to them.
Finally, I would like to extend a very warm Groups enhanced prospects following the welcome to our new colleagues and Board Inclusion is also very much at the heart of acquisition means I am confident we can members who have joined us from Virgin our culture and we continue to make great deliver on our progressive dividend Money.
We look forward to working with strides in developing a diverse and inclusive ambitions going forward.
and learning from you, and the clear culture.
We have five colleague network alignment in our cultures means I am One of the key strengths of CYBG is our groups now in place for gender, age, confident we will be able to leverage the colleagues commitment to our customers disability, ethnicity and sexual orientation, strengths of both businesses to build and during the year I have seen a continued all sponsored by members of our Executive something greater than the sum of the focus on doing the right thing for Leadership Team.
Examples of this include Lack of clarity surrounding the terms of the initiatives such as our successful B-Tox UKs departure from the EU has led to an campaign which aimed to help our uncertain economic outlook.
However, the customers get their finances in order and work undertaken by the Board suggests the introduction of a new forum for that CYBG is well-placed to manage any embedding daily customer feedback into short-term volatility.
Like all organisations, there is always more we can do and I would like to thank all of our colleagues, Jim Pettigrew improvements to be made, but I truly the Executive Leadership Team and the Chairman believe that CYBG has the customer at the Board for their continued dedication to the 26 November 2018 heart of what we do and this can only be transformation of CYBG in what has been good for customer outcomes.
I would also like to Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information
