DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to report on another year of sustained progress during which shareholders funds have increased by 9.5% to 1,813 million 2017 increase 11.9% to 1,656 million.
Against a background of difficult market conditions in the UK, the 5.9% 2017 7.2% growth in the value of our property portfolio is a creditable result.
Whilst we have seen a slowdown in the general rate of increase in property values, a number of development projects in both the UK and USA have neared completion and generated significant increases in value: these are discussed further in the following pages.
Once again we have seen stronger growth in dollar terms in the value of our USA portfolio, 9.2% 2017 6.2%, particularly aided by the compression of rental yields.
Our overall rental income has increased by 4.6% 2017 6.6% to 131.3 million 2017 125.5 million.
The increase has been spread across a wide range of UK and USA properties.
Unusually, in this year there were fewer ongoing schemes of major work with the result that service charge income is well down on the previous period.
Outlook Continuing political and economic uncertainty in the UK will provide a challenging environment for the Group in the coming year.
Although the UK is due to leave the European Union in March 2019 the basis of departure and the arrangements which will follow are still completely unclear.
Forecasts of economic growth continue to be revised downwards.
In contrast, the domestic economic outlook in the USA is much more positive although this may be adversely impacted if a full blown tariff war develops between the USA and its major trading partners.
We remain committed to the pursuit of long term growth in net asset value created by projects of development and enhancement designed to generate significant increases in rental values.
The timing of major projects is driven by general economic conditions, planning and construction timetables and does not necessarily align with the annual reporting cycle.
We are always long term in our approach and I remain confident that the pursuit of our tried and tested strategy will ensure that the Group continues to progress.
Dividend In keeping with our stated objective of prudent, sustained dividend growth, the Board is pleased to propose an increase in the total dividend of 5p to 103p 2017 98p.
Our sincere thanks must go to those whose efforts have delivered these results.
B S E Freshwater Chairman Above, right and contents page: 11 East Chase Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
Front cover: 77 North Washington, Boston, Massachusetts.
Inside front cover: 260 West End Avenue, Manhattan, New York.
Opposite page background: 427 West 51st Street, Manhattan, New York.
