06 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 07 In November 2018, it was announced that I will retire at the next AGM on 17 May 2019 to be succeeded by John Burns as Non-Executive Chairman.
The Board agreed that Paul Williams should succeed CHAIRMANS Johnas Chief Executive.
Paul has been a Board member since 1998, having joined Derwent Valley in 1987.
He has been an integral part ofthe Groups success story.
We are pleased by the support this announcement has received from our shareholders, and it provides STATEMENT us with the ongoing leadership to take the Group forward.
After nine years as a Non-Executive Director, Stephen Young will Derwent London continued to make alsobe retiring at our next AGM and I would like to thank him for hisconsiderable contribution to the business.
We already have an goodprogress in 2018 despiteprolonged excellent replacement in Lucinda Bell, previously Chief Financial political and economic uncertainty.
Officer of British Land, who was appointed in January 2019.
Shewillfollow Stephen as chair of the Audit Committee.
Against the background of protracted Brexit negotiations, we have Increasingly, we are focusing on the broader impact of our business achieved 26.8m of new lettings, a 5.1% increase in underlying on a wider range of stakeholders and we have established a earnings to 99.1p per share and a 20.0% increase in EPRA EPS Responsible Business Committee chaired by Non-Executive Director, to113.1p per share.
The EPRA NAV rose 1.6% to 3,776p per share Cilla Snowball.
While we believe that we already have some of the 1 after paying out dividends of 136.5p.
Our financial strength was best ESG standards in our industry, we remain committed to recognised when we were assigned a corporate credit rating of improving them and 2018 saw us raise the bar again.
White Collar 2 A-byFitch, and we have subsequently arranged a 250m US private Factory EC1 won numerous awards, including RIBA National and 3 4 placement, which was drawn down in January 2019.
We adopted the BCO National Innovation awards and 25 Savile Row W1 won a SKA UN Sustainable Development Goals as part of our reporting process, Gold rating.
We have now committed to extending our Community launched an internal management and leadership programme and Fund out to 2021, having completed its first five years in 2018, and completed oursuccession plans.
wesaw good progress towards achieving our 2027 science-based carbon targets.
We propose raising the final dividend 10.3% to 46.75p per share, taking the full years dividend to 65.85p per share, an increase of Derwent London has a well located office portfolio and a tried and 10.2%.
Looking forward, we expect to raise the 2019 dividend at tested strategy that is constantly being flexed in response to the asimilar rate.
For the past decade, our average ordinary dividend market.
We remain dedicated to creating the space that allows growth has been 10.4% per annum and, in addition, we have paid businesses to thrive, as well as benefits both for our investors and special dividends totalling 127p per share in the last two years.
forthe communities in which we operate.
The long-term success of this model is dependent on the skills of our people and the Groups This month is the twelfth anniversary of the merger between relationships with its many stakeholders.
Derwent Valley and London Merchant Securities.
I was one of thearchitects of this transaction and subsequently became the Finally, I would like to thank all those who have been involved enlarged Groups Chairman.
I believe that we have more than withDerwent London over many years and to wish the Group delivered on our aspirations, outperforming both the relevant continuing prosperity.
I know that there are plenty of opportunities property and equity indices by a substantial margin.
As well as inthe portfolio, and I am very confident that the leadership team growing the business, wehave enhanced our brand, designing willbeable to capitalise on them as well as adding fresh initiatives andcreating innovative office space with the flexibility required ofitsown.
bytodays occupiers, locatedin improving areas and at middle market rents.
Robert Rayne Chairman The Groups sustained performance over many years reflects our culture and that can only be nurtured through strong leadership.
Derwent London benefits from a talented team, which has been led from the beginning by its exceptional Chief Executive, John Burns.
Ithas been my privilege to have worked with him.
However, any 1 Environmental, social and governance achievement can only be measured through its continuing legacy 2 Royal Institute of British Architects 3 and, with this objective in mind, the Board has focused on succession British Council for Offices 4 planning with the aim of ensuring a smooth management handover.
RICS rating PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Total property return Total shareholder return BREEAM ratings Measures the income and Measures our share price Measures environmental impact capital return on our portfolio and dividend performance of commercial buildings Excellent 6.0% 0.9% Exceeding our benchmark, the MSCIIPD Outperforming the FTSE 350 Both Brunel Building and 80 Charlotte Street Central London Offices Index, of 5.3% Real Estate index return of -9.2% are on track to meet this target
