10 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Recommended final dividend per share 40.4p 5% 2017: 38.5p Total dividend i per share 65.3p 5% 2017: 62.2p Total shareholder return % 23% 2017: 12% ii This years performance demonstrates the We expect 730 million new consumers will consistent and rigorous execution of our be able to afford international premium spirits strategy and is testimony to the passion and over the next 10 years, driving growth in our commitment of all our people around the business and creating long-term value for all world.
My thanks to everyone at Diageo for our stakeholders.
The global environment Culture We find combined economic and political We are seeing the benefits of the challenges around the world, including transformation of the company under Ivans questions about international trade and future leadership.
The entrepreneurial spirit, partnerships between countries.
Diageo is embodied by many of our brands founders, experienced in navigating volatility.
Our broad The entrepreneurial spirit, is very much alive in todays Diageo.
Our portfolio, geographic footprint and leadership embodied by many of our culture and values will continue to drive position in many markets, together with the performance and help attract and retain the flexibility of our operating model, enable us to brands founders, is very best talent.
There is more work to do, but adapt well to change.
much alive in todays Diageo is an increasingly agile, efficient, We continue to prepare for all scenarios consumer-centric business.
around the United Kingdom's exit from the Diageo.
Our culture and European Union in 2019 and are taking Brexit Opportunities for growth values will continue to drive in our stride.
We look forward to agreement We are a global leader with an enviable on a final deal that will provide stability for portfolio of brands and an extensive performance and help our workforce and business operations in the geographical footprint.
We will seize the attract and retain the best United Kingdom and the European Union, opportunities presented by demographic as well as clarity on existing and future trade change and rising incomes that allow people talent.
There is more work deals between countries.
As one of the United to choose premium brands.
These are trends to do, but Diageo is an Kingdom's most important manufacturing that make total beverage alcohol a very export companies, we are working with the attractive sector for growth.
Spirits continue increasingly agile, efficient, UK government to ensure our priorities are to take share from wine, premium beer consumer-centric business.
continues to outperform mainstream beer and people want to drink better, not more.
Javier Ferrn i Includes final recommended dividend of 40.4p.
ii Euromonitor 2015 and internal analysis.
Chairman Strategic report Chairmans statement DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 Creating value Our broader sustainability and responsibility Board changes Looking in more detail at the drivers of framework is embedded in our business In April 2018, we announced the appointment of Susan Kilsby as a Non-Executive Director.
performance, we have made further good strategy and focused on targets for nonfinancial performance, which are included Susans expertise in finance and M&A make progress toward our medium term guidance and across the four areas in which we in this report see pages 40-55. her contributions a valuable addition to the measure our performance: efficient growth, Boards deliberations.
Diversity and inclusion In March, we agreed with Ursula Burns that value creation, credibility and trust, and We know that for our business to thrive, we her appointment as Non-Executive Director motivated people.
Our value creation KPIs, depend on diverse talent and thinking with return on average invested capital ROIC would be delayed.
The delay is a result of her a range of backgrounds, skills and capabilities.
and total shareholder return TSR both ongoing commitments at VEON Ltd, where Our employees must reflect our broad she is currently Executive Chairman on an increased, to 14.3% and 23%, respectively, consumer base.
We believe diversity is one of interim basis.
We look forward to welcoming this year.
Progress has also been made the key enablers that helps our business to across our efficient growth KPIs.
Ursula to the Board in due course.
grow and I am particularly proud that Diageo We continue to target dividend cover The future has focused on achieving greater diversity at the ratio of basic earnings per share before Diageo is a global leader in a highly attractive the most senior levels: women currently make exceptional items to dividend per share industry, in which the increasing number of up 50% of our Board.
The legal purchasing age consumers continue to The Executive Committee is a team recommended final dividend is 40.4 pence trade up.
It is also a business with a long cycle, of highly successful men and women per share, an increase of 5%.
This brings as it takes time to build brands sustainably.
representing six different nationalities, the recommended full year dividend to The consistent execution of strategy has speaking multiple languages and all having 65.3 pence per share and dividend cover to delivered further progress this year and the lived and worked in countries across the 1.8 times.
We continue to expect to maintain Board and Executive leadership remain fully globe.
40% of the Executive Committee dividend increases at a mid-single digit rate committed to building long-term value.
until our dividend cover is comfortably back I am pleased that we are also receiving in range.
In January 2018, Subject to shareholder approval, the Diageo was recognised by the Bloomberg final dividend will be paid to UK shareholders Gender-Equality Index for our performance on 4 October 2018.
Payment will be made and disclosure around gender equality and to US ADR holders on 10 October 2018. we ranked fifth in the Thomson Reuters Javier Ferrn Earlier this year, we completed the Global Diversity and Inclusion Index.
In Chairman purchase of 58.9 million shares, returning November 2017, Diageo ranked third in the 1.5 billion to shareholders.
Having delivered FTSE 100 for women on boards and in another year of strong cash flow generation, leadership in the Hampton-Alexander the Board has approved an additional share Review.
And Diageo was named joint first buyback programme of up to 2.0 billion in the FTSE 100 companies with female during fiscal 2019. executive directors, in the Female FTSE Board Our role in society Report 2017 from Cranfield University School Making a positive contribution to society is of Management.
Social philanthropy Our intent is to have our senior leadership played a big part in the lives of the founders team 35% female by 2020, with an increase of many of our brands and we have a long to 40% by 2025.
This figure currently stands track record of supporting the communities at 34%.
around us through targeted programmes, as Celebrating our inclusive and diverse well as creating jobs and increasing prosperity.
culture is core to Diageos purpose of We believe that promoting a positive role celebrating life, every day, everywhere.
for alcohol in society and fostering inclusive This purpose is inclusive in nature, valuing growth through our value chain are everybody irrespective of background, fundamental to achieving our long-term religion, sexuality or ethnicity.
Ivan outlines in more Our commitment to fostering greater detail how we have developed our alcohol in inclusion and diversity can also be seen society strategy to deliver more.
I am proud of through our brands: Smirnoffs Were Open the work Diageo continues to do in helping to campaign supports LGBT inclusivity.
In May, reduce alcohol harm and I am pleased to see Diageo also pledged support to the United the wholehearted commitment across the Nations Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct company to stretching targets that will deliver for Business.
