CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Delivering sustainable returns In 2018, the Group delivered profit before tax of 582.6million 2017: 539.0 million.
The Groups diversified product and channel portfolio, disciplined underwriting and our engaged employees have helped ustoachieve this commendable result.
Governance highlights Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders Your Board seeks to The effectiveness Your Board provides Your Remuneration andstakeholders ensure that decisions ofyour Boards shareholders with Committee ensures are of the highest anditsCommittees anassessment of aclose correlation Your Board maintains standard.
It challenges performance is theGroups position between creating strong relationships strategic proposals, considered annually and prospects.
We valuefor shareholders, and regular interaction performance delivery inan effectiveness monitor and review and remunerating with shareholders.
theeffectiveness of Executive Directors Their continued support responsibilities.
theGroups risk andsenior executives for the strategic aims is See page 70 management and appropriately.
Your Board See page 66 internal control systems.
also has regard See pages 75 and 88 totheinterests of See page 74 otherstakeholders.
See pages 66 and 75 12 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to market losses due to credit spread widening and continued CEO succession capital expenditure as the Group invests with the aim of Following a rigorous search process, the Group was delighted improving its capabilities and efficiency.
to announce, on 26 February 2019, that Penny James, Chief Financial Officer CFO had been selected to succeed Paul The Group aims to grow the dividend in line with business Geddes as Chief Executive Officer CEO with effect from the growth.
Accordingly, the Board has recommended a final conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 May dividend of 14.0 pence per share 2017: 13.6 pence, 2019.
Paul will step down as a member of the Board and will anincrease of 0.4 pence per share.
If approved, the total leave the Group at the end of July 2019. regular dividend of 21.0 pence per share will represent 2.9% growth on 2017s regular dividend 20.4 pence per share.
Penny joined the Board on 1 November 2017 and This reflects the Boards continued confidence in the Groups succeededJohn Reizenstein as CFO on 1 March 2018. earnings and the progress the business continued to make.
Pennys deep understanding of our sector, combined with outstanding leadership skills, financial and risk expertise and The Board also resolved to pay a special interim dividend deep strategic thinking, gives the Board confidence that Penny of8.3 pence per share.
After both dividends, the solvency 1 is ideally suited to leading the delivery of the Groups short-term capitalratio will be 170% as at 31 December 2018. strategic imperatives, including technological and business The Board has taken into account the high level of political transformation, and the development of the next stage of andeconomic uncertainty, including in relation to the UKs exit ourstrategy.
from the EU Brexit and considers it appropriate for the time th This year marks the 10 anniversary of Pauls appointment being to maintain a prudent solvency capital ratio towards the asCEO.
In that time Paul has made a huge contribution to upper end of the solvency capital ratio risk appetite range of theGroup and the Company is deeply indebted to him for his 140% to 180%.
The Board will keep this position under review strong leadership.
During his tenure, Paul has been leading the as it monitors developments in the political and economic management team which successfully separated the business environment.
In normal circumstances, the Board expects the from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, floated it on the Group to operate around the middle of its solvency capital London Stock Exchange and turned it into a successful ratio risk appetite range.
The Board thanks Paul for his Brexit enormouscontribution and wishes him well for the future.
Brexit, when the UK is due to leave the EU, is scheduled Strategy totakeplace on 29 March 2019.
Although the Group is The Group aims to make insurance much easier and better predominantly a UK business, it does, for example, have value for our customers.
The Board supports and challenges exposure to financial markets and it imports goods and services theGroups management to develop and execute a strategy in order to fulfil insurance claims, including from the EU.
The which is aligned to this aim.
Our strategy looks to position us Group has been monitoring events carefully and proactively as a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business, to taken steps to mitigate the likely impact on the Group to the enable us to meet our customers needs now and in the future, extent we consider it to be appropriate and proportionate to regardless of their channel preference.
do so, given the considerable uncertainties: however, in the event of a disruptive Brexit the Group will not be immune.
We Supporting this strategy is a substantial and ongoing change have more information on this in the Risk section, on page 48. and investment agenda.
We look to continue to invest in our direct offering, as we believe it enables us to deliver the best ESG practices value for our customers and our shareholders, through our The Board subscribes to the principle that a business model differentiated brands and propositions and simple customer thatis sustainable in the long term will be better able to drive journeys.
Our investments in technology and digitisation are value for its shareholders and other stakeholders, contributing intended to improve competitiveness, agility and efficiency.
This tothe development of a sustainable economy.
The Group has also supports our ambition to grow our profitable share of the strong values and is customer focused to ensure it is continuing price comparison websites market, particularly by moving us to meet customer needs.
The Board is proud of the high level towards best-in-class pricing.
By leveraging our manufacturing engagement of its people, whose wellbeing is one of the pillars strengths and investments in digital capabilities, we are in our approach to ESG, reflected in our support for Mind and continuing to support our aim of winning new partnerships.
the Scottish Association for Mental Health as well as numerous wellbeing initiatives across the Group.
Our investment portfolio Dividends and capital management has started to be weighted towards green bonds and The Groups solvency capital ratio prior to all proposed investments which attract higher ESG ratings.
Each of our UK dividends was 194%, resulting from good capital generation offices seeks to act constructively with the local community and from the business and lower capital requirements due in part to we encourage our people to allocate at least a day each year increasing the level of reinsurance purchased by the Group in out of their working lives to support charitable or community recent years.
This was partially offset by higher unrealised mark initiatives.
Our people donated nearly 4,800 hours of company Note: time to volunteer within their communities during 2018.
Further information can be found on page 32.
CO. UK 13 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Linking remuneration to performance Board and Committee membership changes We remain committed to ensuring that executive pay is Further to the announcement of the new CEO you will recall from alignedwith the Companys strategy of targeting sustainable my statement last year that John Reizenstein and Andrew Palmer shareholder and customer value.
This is primarily achieved by stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in the Annual Incentive Plan AIP and Long Term Incentive Plan May 2018.
LTIP being aligned to performance measures shareholders Three Non-Executive Directors NEDs joined the Board in consider important.
This is underpinned by the delivery of a 2018: Mark Gregory and Gregor Stewart were appointed on significant proportion of remuneration through shares and 1 March: and Fiona McBain joined us on 1 September.
Board is already benefiting from their skills and experiences.
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity RoTE of Clare Thompson, independent NED, has decided to step down 21.5% for 2018.
A decrease of 16.5% 2017: an increase of from the Board at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Having 3.3% in the share price over the year to 318.7 pence 2017: served as a Director since 2012, Clare has made an immense 381.7 pence at 31 December 2018, together with dividend contribution to the Group.
Her experience and wisdom have payments, provided a total shareholder return TSR of minus been invaluable in helping the Board and senior management 7.7% for the year 2017: 8.1%.
This compares favourably to to deliver excellent results for shareholders and customers.
She the FTSE 350 which had an overall return of minus 9.5% at leaves the Board with our thanks and best wishes for the future.
31December 2018 as financial markets reacted to global The Chairs of three Board Committees also changed during trade tensions and Brexit.
Over the past five years, shareholders 2018.
Gregor and Mark were appointed as Chair of the have received a TSR of 87% compared to the FTSE 350 AuditCommittee and Investment Committee respectively excluding investment trusts of 22%.
The Group has continued replacing Andrew Palmer.
Danuta Gray also replaced to deliver good results each year, which has enabled the ClareThompson as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Board to declare cumulative dividends, including special dividends, equivalent to approximately 106% of the Initial I would like to thank each member of the Board for their Public Offering IPO share price.
More information on the significant contribution, commitment and service, and look Groups remuneration policy and share awards are disclosed forward to working with them in 2019 as the Group in the Directors remuneration report on pages 88 117. continuesto strive to build on its success to date.
IT infrastructure Employees The Board continues to provide oversight of the ambitious The Groups employees are fundamental to the Groups programme of activity to upgrade and better integrate the success and sustainability and to ensuring a high level of major IT systems within the Groups technology infrastructure, service to our customers.
I would like to thank each of them aimed at improving the Groups digital offering, customer fortheir hard work, initiative and commitment to our mission.
Good progress has Their positive energy, embodiment of the Groups values been made in this area and 2019 is set to be an important andunwavering dedication to our customers have helped year for the Group in terms of the delivery of the new platform.
ourbusinesses progress over the successful years since theIPO, and have put us in a strong position for the future.
Customer, culture and conduct Meeting the needs of our customers is central to the Groups strategy and sustainability.
The Board recognises that opportunities will arise to improve further the services offered tocustomers, and along with its investment in IT capability to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the business, it has also encouraged a MICHAEL N BIGGS range of customer experience initiatives which are designed CHAIRMAN todeliver increased levels of customer satisfaction.
The Group maintains active relationships with its insurance regulators through constructive dialogue.
The Board promotes anopen and collaborative culture, and provides oversight of the Groups conduct with customers.
It oversees the Groups culture and the conduct policy, which aims to ensure that fair customer outcomes are achieved and that employees behave with integrity.
The Group also has an Employee Code of Conduct which sets out standards to which our employees are required toadhere.
14 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS
