Dominos Pizza Group plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement 16 17 18 UK LIKE-FOR-LIKE SYSTEM SALES GROWTH 4.6% 2017: 4.8% Our franchisees continue OVERVIEW to excel both against their I am happy to be reporting on a year of continued growth for Dominos.
We competitors and their peers have responded to a very difficult period for the casual dining sector beset by around the world.
cost inflation and overcapacity by investing in our infrastructure, supporting Stephen Hemsley Significant events franchisees and paving the way for Non-executive Chairman Continued good growth further long term growth.
in the UK despite a Dominos UK & ROI remains one of the tougher environment for very strongest franchises across the global our customers Dominos network, and we are fortunate Performance is a testament to to enjoy long term, mutually-beneficial the quality of our franchisees partnerships with an outstanding group of International expansion provides franchisees.
They continue to invest in new growth potential on many stores, with a further 59 opened during fronts.
We experienced some the year.
challenges in 2018, including business integration and For our part, we completed our investment weakness in execution in the new Warrington Supply Chain Centre, which will support franchisees Your Boards approach to growth plans for many years to come, and capital allocation balances have embarked on a major programme to immediate returns with upgrade our customer-facing IT platforms investment in the longer term to drive further sales growth.
for sustainability of growth Outside the UK, we continue to make operational improvements and invest to strengthen our businesses.
In Ireland, we took a 15% stake in our largest franchisee, investing alongside a private investor.
This lays the foundations for further store openings in Ireland.
At the start of the year, we completed the acquisitions of a further 44.3% stake in Dominos Iceland and, through our minority stake in Germany, the number two independent operator in that market.
Both businesses have performed very well this year.
In Norway, the integration of last years acquisition of Dolly Dimples 9.8% 4.8% 4.6% Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 03 has presented challenges, and losses have will, subject to shareholder approval at the who continue to love our pizzas despite been greater than anticipated.
At the year Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2019, the increasing choice and innovation in end, we took an impairment on the values be paid on 25 April 2019 to shareholders the market.
of Norway, Sweden and Switzerland, on the register at the close of business on reflecting their increased risk profile and 22 March 2019.
See our Sustainability Report starting the issues encountered during the year.
on page 40 To support these uses of capital and to Nonetheless, all of these markets offer establish a more efficient funding structure, BOARD CHANGES long term growth prospects and the the Board also raised the Groups leverage opportunity to create lasting value for target to 1.752.5 times net debt to EBITDA.
During the year our CFO Rachel Dominos shareholders.
Given that the Group was in a net cash Osborne decided to leave Dominos to position only three years ago, this is clearly pursue other interests.
In October we The significant level of non-underlying a significant development of policy.
Our announced the appointment of a new items incurred this year reflects a period 350m credit facility gives us flexibility CFO, David Bauernfeind, who comes of transformation for the Group, as we should we see appropriate opportunities, with significant PLC experience and has renew our infrastructure and integrate but our expected level of net debt leaves already made a positive impact in the new businesses.
us able to delever appropriately should the business.
Steve Barber, the Chairman of environment deteriorate.
the Audit Committee, also informed the See Group at a glance on pages 4-5 Board of his intention to step down at the OUR STAKEHOLDERS Annual General Meeting in April 2019.
CAPITAL ALLOCATION AND RETURNS Dominos has an unusual but highly I would like to thank both Rachel and TO SHAREHOLDERS successful business structure built on Steve, on behalf of the Board, for their enduring collaboration between a number The Dominos business model generates contributions to the business.
of skilled and experienced contributors.
high returns on capital and strong cash CONCLUSION Running pizza restaurants is hard and flows.
The Board has a clear framework committed work, and I would like to 2018 has been a year of solid financial for capital allocation, making sure that acknowledge here our franchisees performance, but we are determined existing businesses are invested in to ongoing dedication to customers and the to improve operational and financial maintain and grow competitive advantage, brand.
From time to time, commercial performance in our international appraising new growth opportunities and tensions can rise to the surface, but I am businesses, and ensure a smoother returning cash to shareholders, all within confident that we remain strongly aligned relationship with some of our franchisees.
for long term growth, and the Board and Despite some economic and political With the completion of Warrington, executive team are working hard to challenges, as the leading brand in the our capital investment fell this year to ensure that these current differences most popular cuisine in the market, 28.9m.
Acquisition spend totalled are short-lived.
supported by outstanding business 60.1m, as outlined above.
We returned partners and over 10 million customers, We are also part of a global network: 103.5m to shareholders, of which we are well set for profitable growth.
Dominos businesses around the 44.3m was through the regular dividend world share best practice and a joint and 59.2m was through share buybacks.
We all support Stephen Hemsley The total dividend for the year will be 9.5p, each other.
Our common interest is up 5.6% year-on-year.
The proposed final Non-executive Chairman sustaining and improving the customer dividend for the year of 5.45p per share experience.
Finally, I thank our customers, 11 March 2019
