Chairmans Statement WINNING SHARE AND PUTTING THE CUSTOMER FIRST Dunelm has made significant strategic Introduction Performance progress in the last few years and I am Dunelm has grown to become the Against the backdrop of challenging confident that under Nicks leadership market leader in homewares in the UK.
and volatile market conditions, over we will turn our strategic plans into It has a network of 169 superstores the last financial year we grew our substantial value creation.
selling a broad product range with total sales by 9.9% to 1,050.1m, with most lines being unique to Dunelm positive like-for-like sales performance We are proud of Dunelms strong offering outstanding value and choice.
We have continued to culture and amazing colleagues.
Our strategy in recent years has been win homewares market share and I would like to thank them all for to build on these strengths by growing strengthen our leadership position.
their hard work and commitment.
our online participation, evolving Our store like-for-like sales increased Although our business is becoming towards a truly multichannel business.
by 1.0%, while like-for-like online more digital, the human touch from all This strategy has necessitated large sales were up 37.9%, reflecting our our colleagues is as important to our investments in our systems and in increasing focus on this channel success as always.
our supply chain logistics, and the as customer shopping behaviour acquisition of Worldstores in November 2016 accelerated this transition.
The year under review was complicated by a combination of management changes, the integration of Worldstores and a fragile economic environment.
However, the appointment of our new CEO, Nick Wilkinson, in February brought cohesion and impetus to our strategic thinking and as a Board we are pleased with the immediate progress he has achieved.
The Worldstores integration is virtually complete and the acquired unit will in future no longer be reported separately, as all the continuing sales are transferred to the Dunelm.
com site, which will incorporate key elements of the Worldstores systems.
As a result, our fast-growing online business will become better established and will be our primary focus for future growth.
com Stock code: DNLM 4 Business Overview We are now well placed for future profitable growth in a multichannel world.
Our strategy will bring continuous improvement online and in stores continues to shift.
We opened ten In March, we appointed Rachel Dividends new superstores in the year including Osborne as a Non-Executive Director The Board has recommended one relocation taking our network to gain the benefit of her experience maintaining the final dividend at to 169 superstores, and we still see as CFO in a variety of consumer facing 19.5 pence per share, bringing the opportunity to grow our national store businesses.
Unfortunately, Rachel total dividend for the full year to network in a measured way.
subsequently changed her executive 26.5 pence per share, an increase role which created a competitive of 1.9% on the previous year.
While Profit before tax and exceptional items conflict and she stood down from the dividend cover before exceptional fell by 6.7% to 102.0m, reflecting a Board in August.
We have initiated a items of 1.5x remains below our target full year of trading losses reported search for Rachels replacement and range, it reflects both the non-recurring in respect of Worldstores, a small will update on progress in due course.
costs associated with the Worldstores reduction in our core business gross acquisition and integration, and margin, and increased operating The future our confidence in Dunelms future costs due in part to the higher mix of Our mission at Dunelm is to help growth prospects.
As a result of new store everyone create a home they love.
openings, refits and investment in Notwithstanding a difficult retail Board changes our digital technology infrastructure, environment, after a challenging period Nick Wilkinson has made a strong start we maintained a relatively high level of change and investment we are now as CEO and is already bringing fresh of capital investment of 44.0m well placed for future profitable growth energy to our wider leadership team.
Profits after tax and in a multichannel world.
Our strategy exceptional items were in line year-onLaura Carr will join as CFO on 29 will bring continuous improvement year at 73.3m 2017: 73.1m.
November and will bring valuable in our proposition both online and in retail and commercial experience stores, based around our broad range Our balance sheet remains strong with having been CFO of Indigo in Canada of great value and stylish products, limited leverage net debt:EBITDA and most recently Group Financial our well invested infrastructure, our before exceptional items of 0.89x at Controller of Compass Group plc.
In right-sized estate, and the committed year-end and cash generation remains the meantime, we have been fortunate colleagues who live and breathe our a key feature of our business model to have David Stead return as Interim business principles every day.
with free cash flow of 52.9m in the CFO following the departure of Keith year FY17: 14.2m.
I look forward to working with Nick and Down in May.
David was previously the rest of the Board to capitalise on our CFO from 2003 to 2016 and I the exciting opportunities ahead.
would like to thank him for returning to smooth the CFO transition.
Andy Harrison As previously advised, Simon Emeny, Chairman our Senior Independent Director, stepped down at our AGM in 12 September 2018 November 2017 after ten years service.
Liz Doherty, who chairs our Audit & Risk Committee, has succeeded Simon as Senior Independent Director.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 5 Strategic Report Customer First We continue to adapt and evolve as our customers needs change.
Our foundations are strong and they give us a great platform to accelerate our multichannel capabilities.
Our colleagues make Dunelm what it is.
Friendly service, product expertise, and willing to go the extra mile.
com Stock code: DNLM 6 Contents Our Marketplace 8 Our Business Model 10 Our Vision & Strategy 12 Key Performance Indicators 14 Business Review 16 Financial Review 22 Risks and Risk Management 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 28 Sustainability 35 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 7
