CHAIRMANS LETTER Delivering long-term value The 2018 financial year has been a tough but successful one for basic headline earnings per share increasing by 43.4% to easyJet, with industry-wide disruption being more than offsetby record 118.3pence 2017: 82.5pence.
Total profit before tax increased revenues.
Uncertainty around Brexit, high oil prices and the wider by60 million to 445 million.
Non-headline costs of 133 million macro-economic environment have led to arecent fall in the share 2017: 23 million included a 40 million transition cost of Tegel price which is disappointing, but easyJet iswell positioned to face and a 65 million charge relating to a change in our approach to current marketchallenges and take advantage of any opportunities technology development.
Basic total earnings per share increased arising.
In 2018 the Group has increased the numberof passengers by 17.4%to90.9 pence 2017: 77.4 pence.
flownby over 10.2% to 88.5 million passengers 2017:80.2 million DIVIDENDS and revenue has increased to 5,898 million 2017: 5,047 million.
easyJets dividend policy is to pay shareholders 50% of headline Inthe year, we acquired partof Air Berlins operations at Tegel, earnings, reflecting the Boards confidence in the long-term theintegration of which isprogressing well.
This acquisition is an prospects of the business.
I am pleased to recommend to important strategic move that secures a leading position in one shareholders a dividend of 58.6 pence for the 2018 financial ofEuropes biggest markets.
year, an increase of 43.3% from the previous year.
BOARD BERLIN TEGEL Johan Lundgren became Chief Executive on 1 December 2017 As noted above, easyJet acquired part of Air Berlins operations at andduring his first year has taken the opportunity to meet many Berlin Tegel Airport, completing the transaction in December 2017. employees, customers, regulatory bodies and other stakeholders This secured a market-leading position across the Berlin market, which to seek their views on, amongst other things, the Groups strategy is one of Europes biggest, and Berlin is now oursecond biggest city and culture.
This has culminated in the presentation to the base after London.
The start-up of operations has gone well and Boardof Our Plan, which is an evolution of our existing strategy, the total loss before tax this year of 152 million wasbroadly in incorporating a number of new strategic initiatives.
On behalf linewith initial expectations.
We will continue to optimise both our ofthe Board I would like to thank Johan and his team for their operations and schedule in Berlin to underpin its long-term success.
contribution during his first year: the Group continues to go from strength to strength under his refreshed and focused leadership.
OUR PEOPLE I would like to thank all of easyJets employees and in particular In addition to Johans arrival as Chief Executive there have also thecrew who, despite all the disruption experienced this year, been other changes on the Board.
We welcomed Julie Southern ensure easyJet provides the warmest welcome in the sky.
We are on 1 August 2018, who brings extensive experience of the airline committed to investing in creating a great place to work, on the industry and a background in  finance roles.
ground aswell as in the sky.
Juliewill assume the role of Audit Committee Chair on1January 2019.
After seven years with easyJet, Adle Anderson has recently notified During the year we have introduced a number of new people to us of herintention to step down and will be leaving with effect the Airline Management Board AMB, who have market-leading from theAGM on 7 February 2019.
On behalf of the Board, Iwould expertise and experience that is aligned with the new strategic liketo thank Adle for her important contribution to easyJet and priorities and who will lead the business in its next stage of specifically inher role as Audit Committee Chair.
also stepped down from the easyJet Board in December 2017 THE FUTURE following completion of nine years on the Board.
On behalf of the easyJet continues to be well positioned for the future, with a Board, Iwould like to reiterate my thanks to Keith for his important sound business model and strong financial base.
Whilst there contribution to the easyJet Board and to easyJets success.
aresome challenges to face in the next 12 months, including RESULTS theimpact of Brexit, there are also significant opportunities easyJets results this year have been driven in particular by andthe business is well set to sustain our leading position in astrong revenue performance, which increased by 16.8% to Europes aviation market.
5,898million 2017: 5,047 million, including 198 million from Tegel routes.
This was partially offset by costs, which were negatively affected by severe disruption, an industry-wide issue, combined with inflationary pressures.
This resulted in headline JOHN BARTON profit before tax increasing by 170 million to 578 million and Non-Executive Chairman 1 www.
