Overview Chairmans Statement Allan McKenzie Chairman Overview Performance Over the year to 31 August 2018 the Companys net Overall, the Companys portfolio benefited from your asset value NAV rose by 2.3% on a total return basis Managers decision to increase exposure to Chinese and the share price rose by 3.4%.
Notably, half of the top 10 contributors to the benchmark MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index portfolios performance were from the mainland, gained 2.2%.
including China International Travel, China Conch, Kweichow Moutai, Shanghai International Airport and This rise in Asian equities over the year came alongside China Resources Land.
Further Chinese companies were a significant increase in volatility during the second half.
added to the portfolio in the second half of the Unlike 2017, when stock markets tracked the reporting period.
A more detailed analysis of your synchronised global economic upswing, the new year Companys performance can be found in the Investment was disrupted by three key factors.
The first was the Managers Review.
squeeze on US dollar liquidity, caused by the White House led tax reforms that compelled American Gearing companies to repatriate their foreign cash hoards, as Since 2011, the Companys gearing has been provided well as the Federal Reserves accelerated interest rate by its 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 normalisation.
The second reason was the increased US CULS, which matured at the end of January 2018.
The hostility towards key trading partners that resulted in a Company continued to make use of its capacity to series of tit-for-tat tariff increases.
Thirdly, heightened implement structural gearing through the 50 million worries of contagion afflicted emerging markets after a one year unsecured multi-currency revolving credit loan series of individual mishaps in Argentina, South Africa, facility with Scotiabank Ireland Designated Activity and Turkey, which could be partially attributed to the Company.
Due to downward pressure on Asian markets first two factors.
As a result, China lost a fifth of its value and economies, the Manager has only drawn down from its peak in January, while the broader developing around half of this facility with the view to increase markets followed suit in mid-August amid concerns that gearing further when there is greater clarity in the the market turmoil might spread.
As at 31 August 2018, 25.5m was drawn down under this facility and net gearing represented 2.2% of There has been some stabilisation in investment net assets.
performance over the last 12 months.
This may be a result of investors greater focus on corporate The Board continues to believe that the sensible use of fundamentals in light of the market gyrations, as well as modest financial gearing should enhance returns to your Managers continued efforts to identify long-term shareholders and further gearing options will be capital growth opportunities, including building considered prior to the maturity of the loan facility at exposure to China, particularly in companies that are the end of January 2019. benefiting from emerging structural technology and growing domestic consumption trends.
The changes Discounts and Share Buybacks made to the underlying portfolio have started to yield The Board has continued to demonstrate its results: contributions from your Managers choice of commitment to the buying back of shares in order to holdings outweighed the negative impact of the keep Dragons discount in line with its peer group.
The portfolios exposure to individual markets and adverse final conversion date for CULS holders was 31 January currency movements in the review period.
2018 which resulted in the listing of 14.4 million new Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 3 Overview Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary shares on 9 February 2018.
Not all of these the index over the year.
The Board will, of course, shareholders wished to retain their holdings and the continue to monitor the Managers performance.
Company was willing to buy back some of these shares.
The Board During the year ended 31 August 2018, 18.2 million The Board is pleased to report the appointment of shares were bought back into treasury at a cost of 67.9 James Will as a non-executive director on 1 October million.
Since the period end, a further 827,000 shares 2018.
James is the former Chairman of law firm have been bought back into treasury at a cost of 3.0 Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP where he was a senior million.
The discount at the end of August 2018 was corporate partner, heading its financial sector practice.
12.2% compared to 14.7% at the previous year end.
He has experience in working with companies across a wide range of industry sectors, including financial The Company trades at a comparable discount to the services, technology, energy and life sciences.
He is broad Asia Pacific Equity investment trust peer group.
currently the chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust, Sentiment towards the sector remains lukewarm in light as well as the audit committee chairman of Herald of the uncertainty created by the prospect of a Investment Trust.
damaging US-China trade war, as well as ongoing concerns around the health of a number of weaker Charlie Ricketts will join the Audit Committee with effect global emerging markets.
from the AGM, replacing Allan McKenzie.
Fees Continuation Vote The Board maintains an ongoing dialogue with the As shareholders will be aware, they are given the Manager on the level of management fees payable by opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company the Company.
In the last 5 years, the management fee every three years.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust is one of the has been reduced from 1.0% of net assets to 0.85% of largest investment trusts specialising in the Asia ex net assets up to 350 million and 0.5% on net assets Japan sector.
The Board believes that the Trust offers over 350 million, which has resulted in a reduction in investors a broad and marketable exposure to Asian ongoing charges from 1.23% to 0.8%.
equity markets, many of which continue to provide attractive long-term investment opportunities in the The Board will continue to monitor fee levels and region.
The Directors believe that the prospects for maintain the dialogue with the Manager.
Asian markets remain positive, and your Company is managed by one of the leading Asian fund managers.
Revenue Account Your Board, thus, strongly recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
I am pleased to report that the Companys revenue return per share increased to 5.03p for the year to 31 The Board has an ongoing programme of contact with August 2018 2017 4.68p.
It remains the Boards policy shareholders.
The Board and the Companys advisers to pay a final dividend marginally in excess of the have recently consulted a number of the larger minimum required to maintain investment trust status, shareholders of Dragon, some of whom had indicated which may, of course, lead to some volatility in the level their wish for a tender offer to be offered in conjunction of dividend paid.
The Board, therefore, recommends the with this years Annual General Meeting at which the payment of a final dividend of 4.0p per Ordinary share three yearly continuation vote will be considered.
2017 3.3p which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 21 December As a result, the Board will, subject to the continuation 2018. vote, propose a tender offer for 30% of the Companys issued shares at a discount of 2% to formula asset value Review of Manager being net asset value less the costs of the tender offer Last year, I reported on the due diligence exercise that on the calculation date, which will be at the end of the the Board had carried out on your Manager in 2017.
noted that the Board would continue to review the Managers performance.
To that end the Board again The tender offer is expected to be conducted, following visited with the team in Singapore in April 2018 and the necessary shareholder approval, in early 2019.
A gained comfort with the leadership and changes made document setting out the terms of the tender offer will to date.
I am encouraged that the Companys recent be sent to shareholders shortly in December 2018. performance has improved and is marginally ahead of 4 Annual Report 2018 In these circumstances, the Board believes that this shown restraint in not pushing for the maximum proposal is in the interests of shareholders.
It ensures amount flaunted in the rhetoric.
This supports the view that shareholders who do not tender any shares are that all the sound and fury has merely been posturing protected against the costs of the tender offer and so far and both countries have left ample room for receive benefit from a modest uplift in their net asset future negotiations.
President Trumps Art of the Deal value.
It also provides an exit mechanism for the approach to trade relations is starting to become shareholders who have asked for one.
somewhat predictable, with his opening gambit giving way to a subsequent more composed compromise, as The Companys largest shareholder, City of London was the case with the recently concluded NAFTA deal, Investment Management, has provided an irrevocable now known as the United States-Mexico-Canada undertaking to vote in favour of the continuation vote Agreement.
With these factors in mind, the outlook for Asia seems Annual General Meeting relatively positive, with an environment that should suit your Managers style, and should bode well for your The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Company in the years ahead.
Managers London office on Monday 17 December 2018 at 12.00 noon, followed by a lunch for shareholders.
On a personal note I intend to retire from the Board in This will give shareholders the opportunity to meet the July 2019.
A new Chairman of the Board will be Directors and Manager after the formal AGM business appointed at that time.
It has been a great privilege to has concluded and we welcome all shareholders to have been on the Board since 2006 and Chairman since attend.
The AGM will continue to be alternated between 2009.
My focus at all times has been to look after the Edinburgh and London.
I would like to thank all who have served with me on the Board since my initial Outlook appointment.
I would also like to thank all of you who Like the rest of the emerging markets, the situation in have interacted with me at annual one-to-one meetings Asia appears bleak at first glance, especially in view of and at AGMs.
the US dollar liquidity crunch, the US induced trade war, the tensions in the South China Sea and the Feds For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc planned interest-rate hikes.
Allan McKenzie Deeper analysis suggests that Asia does not face the Chairman same challenges as those emerging economies currently under such close scrutiny.
This is because 1 November 2018 none of the Asian countries is in the same boat as those in the other troubled regions, having learnt well the lessons from the 1997 financial crisis.
Inflation is relatively low, economic growth is still resilient and central banks have been uncompromising in their approach.
Indonesia, which was identified lately as being vulnerable to the emerging markets contagion, saw its central bank raise interest rates successively to quell inflation and staunch the rupiahs decline.
Fears over Chinas moderating growth rate and elevated debt levels appear overdone as well, chiefly because its financial system is a closed one, with little likelihood of spill-over impact if the situation goes awry.
In addition, Beijing has been responsive and shown a steady hand during difficult spells.
It could also bring to bear its massive arsenal of foreign exchange reserves that stand at more than 1.5 times that of Japan, the next nearest country on the World Banks top five list.
On the US-China trade war front, while shots have been fired and tariffs imposed, both sides have nevertheless Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5
