STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement As a result of this good performance, we will provide additional funds, if required, are announcing a further 20 million share to settle our outstanding 100.5 million buyback programme, commencing with corporate bonds due in December 2018. immediate effect.
Alongside these finance initiatives, we Within Ei Publican Partnerships, our majority appointed Rothschild & Co to help us explore leased and tenanted business, like-for-like various routes to optimise value from our net income per pub was up by 1.2%, with large commercial property portfolio.
This growth across all geographic regions.
This is may include the disposal of all or part of the now the fifth successive year and twentieth portfolio.
Should no material monetisation uninterrupted quarter of like-for-like growth.
occur beforehand, we would expect our This performance not only validates our Commercial Properties business to grow to strategy but is a testament to the strength around 500 pubs by September 2020. of relationships that our operational teams Once again, I would like to thank all of have built with the vast majority of lessees our colleagues across our businesses and tenants.
It also demonstrates the for their hard work, commitment and benefit of transferring examples of best enthusiasm during this year, which has seen practice from our experience in our other considerable change in the way we run our managed and joint venture businesses.
Regular colleague engagement In our managed pubs we achieved like-forsurveys continue to show a significantly 2018 was a pivotal like sales growth of 7.1%.
These comprise high level of engagement and support for year for Ei Group.
The 308 pubs trading as fully managed our strategy.
We are fortunate to have such operations, together with another 47 trading a dedicated group of colleagues.
strategy is now business as Managed Investments alongside 11 as usual with strong In July, we announced David Maloneys specialist partners.
The strong investment performance across each retirement from the Board after ten returns we are achieving upon conversion years service, most of it as Senior of selected sites to Managed Operations of our operating models.
Independent Director and Chairman of have been maintained and we are confident the Audit Committee.
The Board is very that we will continue to grow long-term Robert Walker grateful to David for the immense time, incremental earnings from transferring Chairman commitment and wisdom he brought to additional selected pubs from our leased his roles during these years.
At the same and tenanted estate.
time, and replacing David, we announced Our free-of-tie, rent-only Commercial the appointment of Jane Bednall to the Properties business now comprises 412 Board.
Jane brings extensive experience It is now three and a half years since the properties.
Average net income per property in consumer understanding to the Board announcement of the Groups five year rose 8.2% in the last year and now stands which will be valuable as the business strategy.
This aimed to create a portfolio at 72,300. develops in the future.
of businesses comprising a variety of operating models and trading styles, All in all, a strong performance across each A final word about Brexit.
The Board has designed to optimise value from each of our operating models.
regularly evaluated the potential impact of of the Groups pubs.
These business various outcomes on our businesses.
Since Equally important, the Group has a longmodels included fully managed, leased most of our products and their ingredients term, secure, flexible and tax-efficient and tenanted, and free-of-tie commercial are UK sourced and since the majority of finance structure comprising bank properties.
our businesses are still wet-led, requiring borrowings, securitised notes and corporate less labour, we regard the likely impact Execution of the strategy remains on target bonds.
In 2018 a number of initiatives were as relatively small in nature.
We remain and in line with our original objectives, after successfully undertaken to provide greater confident in our ability to surmount any taking account of adjustments to meet the flexibility in executing the Groups strategy.
rapidly changing market place in which we In July 2018, holders of a portion of Unique operate.
In simple terms, the strategy is At the end of the day, ours is a self-help securitised notes voted to support our now business as usual.
proposals that allow the Group greater Underlying EBITDA remained flat at 287 flexibility in disposing of non-tied pubs out R M Walker million, even after the disposal of 174 pubs of the Unique estate and in September Chairman during the year.
Underlying profit before tax 2018, we increased the size of our bank 19 November 2018 PBT was 122 million, compared to 121 revolving credit facilities to 150 million, million in 2017 and underlying earnings per extending the facilities to August 2022.
We share EPS was 21.2p versus 20.5p in 2017. also have a 50 million term loan which 4 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 5 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Our market Our pubs form part of the UKs top leisure activity, the out-of-home eating and 1 drinking market, worth 89 billion per annum.
Within the UK there are over 2 43,000 pubs and bars with annual sales of 22.5 billion, up 1.6% year on year.
DRINK FOOD KEY FACTORS AFFECTING THE MARKET PLACE The economic climate is challenging, consumer confidence 3 remains negative, and business confidence is subdued by Brexit 49% of consumers who 4 uncertainty.
RPI in August 2018 was the highest in six months at drink out premiumised 5 6 3.5% and CPI was 2.7% whilst wage growth was 2.6%.
8 90% adults visit the their choice 2 Over the past couple of years the industry has been hit with pub for food additional cost headwinds in the form of National Living Wage, 28% growth in low or 8 apprenticeship levy, sugar tax, utility tax and labour shortages, Food retail selling no alcohol drinks resulting in a number of recent and high profile compulsory price increased voluntary arrangements in the casual dining market.
6% increase in by 2.7% compared 2 consumers stating with inflation at 3% However whilst unemployment remains low and consumer habits quality of drink is are relatively stable, the frequency of eating and drinking out 8 2 Increased costs important remains unchanged in five years.
Consumers want high quality Subdued confidence for good value, they are discerning and demanding as competition, Increased quality competition information and technology have raised expectations.
Changing consumer expectations Trends Trends Drink volume has decreased, whilst sales value has increased across all drink The eating out market continues to grow, and the pub remains the most popular categories with the exception of spirits, which has seen both volume and value eating out channel with food destination and family dining pubs predicted to 11 2 growth.
The premiumisation across the sector continues with one in three drink continue growth into 2024.
INDUSTRY CONSUMER serves being premium, and premium beer volume growth outperforming standard Value and informal dining have been relatively protected against restrictions on and traditional.
discretionary consumer spending and growth in food outlet delivery channels have Drink-led pubs sales up Consumers continue to seek authenticity with their choices: provenance, not impacted the out-of-home eating market.
Although dinner occasions have 2 localisation, small batch and craft continue to deliver experiences that are seen some decline, growth has been seen in breakfast and food on the go.
1.6% since 2017 62% of consumers not easily replicated at home.
They also seek balanced choices with 14% of proactively lead a Food trends are mirroring broader trends with key themes being local and fresh, consumers not drinking alcohol.
This market is expected to grow at pace, as seen No.
of licensed 8 healthier lifestyle balanced choices and sustainability.
in the craft beer movement.
premises declined 2.5% 7 since 2017 Opportunities 80% of consumers Opportunities Food offers a broader trading platform and as informal social dining is on the A drinks product range with depth and interest that allows consumers to claim they are open to rise, access into the market does not require significant investment but must premiumise, customise and explore will attract, whilst quality assurance, 2.1% growth in food-led trying new and different address consumer preferences and demands through range, quality, value and accreditations and a knowledgeable team will further enhance experience and 7 pubs last five years accessibility.
products, services and grow sales.
9 experiences Wet-led pubs are more resilient to the challenges in the current market than 17.2% decline in wet-led 7 higher cost-base food-led outlets.
pubs last five years EIG DIFFERENTIATORS EIG RESPONSE Trends Trends Drink-led pubs have again found their relevancy in the market place with their As consumers are becoming more discerning, their pub visits have reduced Through our strategy of asset optimisation we have identified and Diverse portfolio of properties sales growing more quickly than the total eating out market for the first time since year on year while expectations have increased.
Key trends they are demanding continue to move our pubs into the most relevant retail concepts within 2 2008 1.6% vs. 1.5% and total pub outlet numbers are predicted to stabilise in from visits include: value and quality: fun and play: localisation: balanced choices: Trading formats that cover multiple consumer markets 2 our operating models.
Our managed pubs estate continues to grow, as 2021 and return to growth from 2023.
The pubs that remain following this period socially conscious consuming: and technology and connectivity.
value to premium: food to drink does the calibre of our publicans through targeted recruitment.
of rationalisation are in better shape, more professionally managed and more able Operators, in response, are providing a better experience as evidenced by to adapt to current consumer trends.
Range of operating models and offers To meet the needs of our consumers, we have a localised and creative Net Promoter Scores a measure of loyalty taken from consumers ranking the 2 trading approach to enable the best operating style for each outlet.
This Managed pubs and independents grew both in sales and number in the last year, likelihood of recommending which have increased in the year and businesses are Returns-based investment strategy to drive quality 2 with food pubs accounting for the greatest percentage of the eating out market.
actively investing in their people through recruitment, training, engagement and includes consideration of segment, retail offer, publican or manager and Exceptional levels of service and support to help with 4 retention in order to support this.
access to a portfolio of products to support local demand.
cost reduction and business development solutions It remains a challenging consumer market, with no room for complacency as premium pubs are taking share from value pubs, reducing their market share The sales growth seen by the sector is driven by spend rather than visits, with We have a suite of products and applications that provide support Commitment to sustainability 2 from 72% to 67% and innovation, product development and professionalism are discounts and promotions appealing to consumers and encouraging the higher through insight, recommendations and solutions specific to local 10 required to succeed.
demographic and demand, enabling the pub to build a sophisticated Read more about: Our business model on page 8 customer-centric retail offer.
Opportunities Opportunities Contraction of drink-focused outlets will result in a more sustainable wet-led Recent growth in pub visits by 18-24 year olds and families, provides opportunity market for those businesses with the most relevant retail offer.
Food remains a to expand offers and drive additional occasions.
growth market and therefore an opportunity.
Sources Event driven experiences such as sport and drink food festivals tap into consumers desires for value and quality, fun and play, and clever use of 1 5 9 MCA Eating Out Market Report 2018 ONS RPI August 2018 MCA Insight June 2018 technology will be integral to connecting and engaging.
2 6 10 MCA UK Pub Market Report 2018 ONS CPI August 2018 NPD Pub Tracker 2018 3 7 11 GFK Consumer Confidence Index September 2018 CGA Market Growth Monitor September 2018 CGA OPMS data to May 2018 4 8 CGA Fourth Business Confidence Survey 2018 CGA Brand Track 2018 6 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
