CHAIRMANS STATEMENT IN 2018 THE TRANSFORMATION OF OUR PORTFOLIO ACCELERATED.
CENTRAL TO THIS CHANGE ARE OUR PEOPLE AND OUR COMMITMENT TO A CULTURE OF OPENNESS, TRANSPARENCY AND CUSTOMER FOCUS.
ANDREW DUFF CHAIRMAN As I reflect on the second year of the Reignite Growth strategy geographic expansion and increased customer penetration at Elementis, I am pleased to report a year of strategic progress.
of Mondo, utilising the global sales and technical service relationships of Elementis.
In addition, the combination is The acquisition of Mondo, sale of the Surfactants business and anticipated to unlock new business opportunities for the Group investment in a new production facility in India are a clear through the application of Elementis expertise in surface reflection of the significant change taking place at Elementis.
At Elementis we are focused on enhancing our customers BREXIT product performance through the application of our expertise Whilst the timing and impact of the United Kingdoms exit from and innovation.
the EU Brexit remains uncertain, Elementis is well prepared to react to the potential outcome of a no deal Brexit.
Of Elementis FINANCIAL RESULTS 22 manufacturing sites, one is located in the UK, and 96% of In 2018, we experienced a mixed economic environment with Group revenue is from outside of the UK.
We recognise that good levels of growth in the Americas but some deterioration there may be short term disruption to logistics, however steps in Europe and Asia.
have been taken to pro-actively manage our supply chain to mitigate any potential impact.
This includes ensuring sufficient Against this backdrop, the business delivered a solid set of raw materials are held at our production site in Livingston, results.
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations Scotland, as well as having sufficient finished goods throughout rose 8% from $123m to $133m, with growth a result of improved our global distribution network.
profitability in Personal Care and Chromium.
These positive factors more than offset declines in Coatings and Energy.
We BALANCE SHEET also saw a full year of profits from the SummitReheis acquisition Following the acquisition of Mondo, Elementis net debt position as well as an initial contribution from Mondo.
Reported operating has increased from $291m at the end of 2017 to $498m, profit fell 7% to $85m, due to an increase in non-recurring costs.
representing a net debt to adjusted pro forma EBITDA of 2.5x.
Group adjusted diluted earnings per share declined 1% from Looking forward we plan to rapidly deleverage the Group 17.0 cents in 2017 to 16.9 cents as a result of higher tax, net through organic cash generation and self-help initiatives.
Our finance costs and weighted average share count.
debt repayment profile will also be accelerated by the 2018 triennial review of the UK pension scheme which concluded that MONDO no cash top up payments will be required from Elementis until The acquisition of Mondo in October represents a compelling at least 2021.
We anticipate net debt to EBITDA to be around 2x value creation opportunity and a major step in our ambition by the end of 2019. to Reignite Growth at Elementis.
Mondo is an attractive, high quality additives business with strong competitive advantages DIVIDEND POLICY serving resilient, growing end markets.
The business is highly Under the dividend policy introduced in 2018, it is our intention differentiated with complementary product markets built on to pay progressive ordinary dividends, normally with a dividend application driven research and development.
cover of at least two times adjusted earnings, and to seek to make additional returns to shareholders when net debt is In Personal Care and Coatings, a total of $20m to $25m of structurally below one times earnings EBITDA.
revenue synergies are anticipated to arise by 2023 through the 8 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION This year the Board is recommending a total ordinary dividend OUR VALUES IN ACTION of 8.65 cents per share, or 8.40 cents per share on an adjusted basis 2017: 8.80 cents per share, 8.05 cents per share on an Everyone returning home safely at the end of the adjusted basis, reflecting its confidence in the Groups Safety day is our first consideration when doing business.
business model and ability to generate cash, its medium term prospects and the levels of investment required over the short In 2018, we made great strides in this area with no lost time accidents LTA recorded.
This reflects the to medium term to deliver the Reignite Growth strategy.
high level of employee engagement and proactive thinking on safety at Elementis.
A strong safety The final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2019 in pounds sterling culture, alongside structured safety performance at an exchange rate of 1.00:$1.3377 equivalent to a sterling management, will contribute to making our amount of 4.2611 pence per share to shareholders on the operations safer.
The Board declared an interim dividend at the time of the Interim Results announcement of 2.95 cents per share or 2.70 on an adjusted basis 2017: 2.70 cents, 2.47 on an adjusted basis.
Our products provide valuable solutions for our Solutions customers and consumers.
With cyclopentasiloxane to be banned in cosmetics formulas in Europe by GOVERNANCE AND BOARD 2020, our customers have been looking for The Board leads an ongoing programme to ensure the highest alternative solutions for global cosmetic formulas.
standards of corporate governance and integrity right across We were able to create a form of Bentone gel Elementis.
We regard this as critical to the Groups continued that met their requirements while continuing to success and viability.
The interactions and communication flows provide the excellent rheology modification, between Executives and Non-Executive Directors have been desired application and aesthetics of the original strong and as a result the Board is well placed to challenge, product formula.
guide and support the Executives in the delivery of our Reignite Growth strategy.
The Board considers that it has fully applied all of the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Our supply chain is constantly being challenged Ambition Governance Code during 2018. to supply our unique additives to customers in the quickest and most efficient manner.
In 2018 we completed an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
In 2018, we made several strides in this area The overall result was positive, concluding that the Board including investment in a new site in India to serve continues to perform effectively with good leadership, our Coatings, Personal Care and Energy customers in the region.
We also took action to optimise our competent and engaged members and with the appropriate organoclay operations in North America and China.
focus on both in-year performance and strategy for the future.
Further detail on the evaluation process, together with the Boards remit, operations and the topics the Board regularly review can be found in the Corporate Governance Report.
Hurricane Florence caused severe damage in the Respect PEOPLE AND CULTURE Carolinas in September 2018 and required the safe We now have approximately 1,500 employees in the Group, shutdown of our Chromium facility.
spread over more than 20 manufacturing sites and offices, During this period our focus was on the safety of our with 200 joining as part of the Mondo acquisition.
As the Group people, assisting the local community and providing increases in size, it is important to develop consistent and clear communication with our customers.
Following efficient working practices across our teams.
We believe our the disaster we donated $50,000 to support the local values Safety, Solutions, Ambition, Respect and Team are communitys response and recovery efforts and an additional $25,000 to communities worldwide core to our high performance culture and enable us to work impacted by natural disasters.
effectively in partnership with our customers.
This year the Group has reported underlying profitability growth The acquisition of Mondo in October 2018 was Team in a challenging and demanding market place.
At the same time, a major step in our ambition to Reignite Growth.
we have achieved our best ever safety performance.
The Board This project involved several months of close recognises the contribution made by all employees.
Our drive collaboration between our business units and areas for safe and sustainable growth remains unchanged and, on of functional expertise across various geographies behalf of the Board, I would like to thank each and every and cultures.
employee for their commitment this year.
Since the acquisition, a dedicated team has been working together to welcome Mondos staff and SUMMARY integrate them into Elementis and our culture.
The solid results and significant strategic progress made by the Group in 2018 are strong evidence that the Group is adopting the right strategy and creating a stronger platform for growth.
Business insight: Our priorities in 2019, the third year of the strategy, are to deliver The Groups employees are guided by a strong corporate safe, reliable operations, to integrate Mondo and to continue culture and common set of core values.
These values are the implementing the Reignite Growth strategy.
We are looking essence of our identity and govern everything we do and, forward to a year of further progress.
perhaps most importantly, how we engage with each other, our customers and our surroundings.
ANDREW DUFF CHAIRMAN For more on our culture see page 50.
Continuing operations On a 12 month pro forma basis see pro forma calculations on page 164 Rebased for the effects of the Rights Issue see Note 9 9 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
