CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR FUTURE GROWTH Over the last three years we have made considerable progress.
We intend to keep up the pace of change to ensure we fully capitalise on our significant market opportunity.
PETER JOHNSON CHAIRMAN The last three years since Lindsley Ruths appointment as saw double-digit like-for-like revenue growth and market Chief Executive Officer CEO in April 2015 and the initiation share gains in the year as a whole.
of the Performance Improvement Plan PIP in November 2015 Profit before tax PBT increased by 32.7% to 168.6 million with have been a period of considerable change and progress at the improvement being driven by higher sales and gross margin Electrocomponents.
The ambition and pace of change have and continued discipline on operating costs.
The Senior Management Team, consisting of around 5 million from currency movements.
Earnings per Lindsley and his direct reports, has been changed and share was up 62.2% to 33.9p as it benefited from a one-off strengthened.
Efficiency and customer service have taken big non-cash deferred tax credit as a result of the US tax reform.
We have reinvested to enhance our capabilities Adjusted PBT which excludes substantial reorganisation costs in digital, sales effectiveness, innovation, value-added services grew by 35.2%, 30.0% on a like-for-like basis, to 173.1 million.
and RS Pro, all of which have been key in driving accelerated Adjusted earnings per share was up 35.2%, 29.7% on a revenue and profit growth.
Since the PIP was launched, Adjusted free cash flow that is before financing activities like-for-like revenue growth has accelerated to 12.8% in and net substantial reorganisation cash flows of 2.4 million 2018 2015: 3.5%, gross margin has increased and adjusted fell to 105.1 million 2017: 117.7 million.
This reduction operating profit margin has improved to 10.4% 2015: 6.7%.
reflected our decision to increase inventory levels to improve Operating profit has grown at a compound rate of over product availability and our On Time To Promise OTTP ratio, 25% over the two and a half years of the PIP and strong cash a key driver of customer satisfaction.
Net debt reduced flow generation has led to a much improved balance sheet to 65.0 million 2017: 112.9 million.
with net debt reducing to 65.0 million 2015: 152.6 million.
Our rolling three-month RS Net Promoter Score NPS, a Laying the foundations for future growth measure of customer satisfaction, has risen by around Our market opportunity remains huge and our leadership 20% over the course of the PIP.
in digital and breadth of offering gives us significant potential Importantly, the organisation is once again focused on to drive further market share gains in the future.
We have delivering best-in-class results for customers, suppliers, the capability to use strong free cash flow to accelerate our employees and shareholders.
However, while we are pleased growth organically or through value-accretive acquisitions.
by what has been achieved, we still have much more to do, To fully exploit these opportunities we will continue to make and remain committed to maintaining the pace of change in our business more customer centric, leaner and more scalable.
order to take advantage of the significant opportunity we Our customer service levels have improved but there is still great have ahead of us.
potential through raising the performance of all our regions to that of the best.
We need to consistently be first choice for Trading performance customers, suppliers and employees.
There also remains a lot The year ended 31 March 2018 was another year of good of scope to improve our financial ratios.
Foreign exchange profit conversion ratio, a measure of efficiency and one of our movements increased revenue by around 22 million, while Group key performance indicators KPIs, has increased to fewer trading days reduced revenue by around 21 million, 23.6% 2015: 15.3%, but we are still aiming to increase this so that like-for-like revenue growth adjusted for trading days towards a best-in-class conversion ratio of closer to 30%.
and currency movements was also 12.8%.
Like-for-like growth remained strong across the two halves of the year H1 13.3%, As a result, in May 2018 we launched a second phase of H2 12.2% and for the first time in seven years all our regions the PIP which is focused on driving further simplification and 6 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PAGE 50 Board and governance efficiency in our model and investing in automation, shared During the year, the Board visited our Allied Electronics & services and our supply chain to support improved customer Automation Allied operation in the Americas and our Northern service at lower cost.
As a result, we are targeting significant European operation of RS Components RS in Corby, UK.
In both further cost savings, which will enable us to achieve our regions, we were impressed by the energy and commitment aspiration of driving best-in-class adjusted operating profit of the newly strengthened leadership teams and delighted conversion and adjusted operating profit margin ratios to see a more aspirational, innovative and customer-centric see page 13. culture evolving.
Inspiring the next generation of engineers In July 2017, we said farewell to Paul Hollingworth and I would Our business was established to inspire and support engineers.
like to thank him for his outstanding contribution as Audit As such, it is exciting to see the numerous initiatives across the Committee Chairman over the last nine years.
Our two most globe to increase engagement with customers, students and recent Non-Executive Director appointments, Simon Pryce communities.
During 2018 we launched a global multi-channel and Louisa Burdett are settling in well and greatly adding to brand awareness campaign, for the inspired, which celebrates the breadth of skills on the Board.
We continuously evaluate some of the great achievements of inspired people within the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence the engineering community see page 19.
Greater brand of the Directors.
The results and recommendations of this awareness, improved content and higher pay-per-click years internal review of the Board are discussed in detail marketing is driving significantly higher traffic to our website later in Corporate Governance on pages 53 and 54. see page 19.
DesignSpark, our online community of engineers, makers and students, has become the technology partner of Corporate responsibility Barclays Eagle Labs to bolster innovation in local communities.
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business and DesignSpark membership continues to grow and this is just one we work to align our values and strategy with responsible and of many exciting initiatives that will help extend its reach in the ethical business practices across the Group.
We are committed future see page 18.
We have also recently launched a new to creating an inclusive and diverse place to work where version of our interactive technology truck, Titan II, which will everyone can deliver their best irrespective of age, race or showcase our products and new technologies to customers, gender.
We have plans to tackle the challenges of occupational universities and schools to inspire and inform engineers of today segregation and encourage much more diversity in senior and tomorrow see page 19.
This increased engagement with roles, both essential in addressing the gender pay gap.
We customers and the next generation of engineers will provide a also remain committed to being good citizens, playing a full key source of future growth in customer numbers, laying the part in the communities in which we operate and controlling foundation for revenue growth in years to come.
our impact upon the environment.
The Board remains committed to providing clear leadership in all these areas.
Dividend The Board understands the continuing importance of the Employees dividend to its shareholders.
The Board proposes to increase We, as a Board, continue to be impressed by how our the final dividend to 8.0p per share.
This will be paid on 25 July employees have responded to the increased pace of change 2018 to shareholders on the register on 15 June 2018.
As a and ambition within the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would result, the total proposed dividend for the 2018 financial year like to thank all our employees for their hard work, enthusiasm will be 13.25p per share, representing an increase of 7.7% over and dedication throughout the year.
It is the service they the 2017 full-year dividend, resulting in adjusted earnings provide that delivers continuously improving results for dividend cover of 2.1 times.
The increase in the dividend reflects the Group and creates value for customers, suppliers the Boards confidence in the future prospects of the Group and and shareholders.
the Groups strong balance sheet.
The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy whilst remaining committed to Peter Johnson further improving dividend cover over time by driving improved Chairman results and stronger cash flow.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc7
