Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review Delivering sustainable growth and value Replicating the growth and value Successful IPO and project financing Continuous increase in reserves and resources creation achieved in the last decade Energeans Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2018, raising US$460 million, was a landmark 450 Energean was established in 2007 with a clear vision to build the accomplishment for the Company and represented the largest 405 leading independent E&P company in the Mediterranean.
We saw 400 primary raise by an E&P company for more than four years.
a region which had been overlooked and under-exploited by the InJune2018, we were admitted to the FTSE 250 index.
350 international oil and gas majors, and one that would inevitably needmore gas development to cater for growing demand for 300 Our investment proposition to the London market attracted 300 cleaner energy in the surrounding states.
substantial institutional interest despite challenging market 250 237 conditions.
The key characteristics underpinning our successful The past decade has been one of considerable growth, learning, proposition were, and continue to be, the quality of our asset portfolio, 200 investment and achievement for Energean.
We will leverage this our strategic position in the Mediterranean and our managements experience to continue creating value into our next decade whilst 150 track record ofvalue creation.
As we continue to deliver on our retaining our focus on the emerging oil and gas industry in the stated milestones and enter what is expected to be a very active year, 100 Mediterranean.
We believe that this region will soon become presenting multiple catalysts for our share price, we continue to see 58 agloballysignificant gas hub, in which we intend to be a key an increasing level of interest in our story from the equity market.
Our ambitions are clear:the Energean Power 24 17 11 7 5 2 is currently the only planned Floating, Production, Storage and 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Offloading FPSO vessel in theEastern Mediterranean and is settobe a strategically significantpiece of infrastructure.
Prinos 2P Prinos 2C Katakolo 2P Karish and Tanin 2C Karish and Tanin 2P Since 2007, we have steadily expanded our operating footprint fromone country to four: from two licences to 13: and from 2MMboe to more than 400 MMboe of 2P and 2C reserves and resources.
In a very short period, we took the Karish and Tanin gas 2P Reserves MMboe fields, offshore Israel, from acquisition in December 2016 through Israel Gas Israel Liquids a Field Development Plan FDP and financing to a Final Investment 49 Decision FID in March2018, with the development remaining Greece Gas Greece Liquids on track to deliver first gas in 1Q 2021.
This is a remarkable 22 achievement, of which we are very proud.
1 275 347 We have succeeded in delivering significant growth and value in ourfirst year as a listed business.
Our priority now is to continue Signing the US$1.275 billion Facility Agreement in the same month thismomentum into the coming years, and replicate the value as the IPO was a key milestone in financing the development of the creationthat we have delivered over the last decade.
We will pursue Karish and Tanin project and testament to the confidence placed in this goal whilst retaining our strong focus on HSE and CSR, which us by leading international banks.
2C Resources MMboe Combined, the debt and equity raised enabled us to take Final Israel Gas Israel Liquids Investment Decision on the Karish and Tanin development, a key driver of the momentum and growth that will ultimately lead to Greece Liquids considerable value creation for our shareholders and stakeholders.
24 33 The period also saw us list our shares on the Tel Aviv Stock 58 Mathios Rigas Exchange TASE, the market in which our flagship Karish and Chief Executive Officer 1 Tanin assets lie, and where a significant number of stakeholders are domiciled.
Inundertaking this secondary listing, we succeeded In 2018 we delivered a step change in in expanding the accessibility of our exciting Mediterranean energy story to a wider pool of investors and, post period end, have ourgrowth and operations.
I look forward entered the Tel Aviv 35 index, which is composed of the largest 35companies listedon the TASE by market capitalisation.
to maintaining this momentum into 2019, and I am focused on delivering value for our shareholders across our production, development and exploration assets.
08Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201809 MMboe E f f e n c o i t t i v a e g i t p i r m o j e k c s i t R d e l i v e r y Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review continued Our strategy We have three key elements to our strategy, that we execute within Optimising production Developing reserves ourfundamental pillars of disciplined capital allocation, risk mitigation, effective project delivery and, ultimately, operational excellence.
The Prinos Area oil fields, offshore North Eastern Greece, are Developing Karish and Tanin low-cost producing assets in which Energean continues to see A material fide-risked opportunity Thethree areas in which we create value are: significant potential.
The Prinos Basin licence was acquired in Our most significant undeveloped assets are the Karish and Tanin gas 2007.
Since then, we have secured a 25-year licence extension and fields located offshore Israel, which we acquired in December 2016 have increased reserves through the technical re-appraisal of the for $148.5 million $40 million up front and $108.5 million payable reservoir, with a new 3D campaign undertaken in 2015 as well as over ten instalments following Final Investment Decision plus royalty further drilling activity enabling us to implement our development 7.5% 8.25% andwhich are set to transform our business over the plan to significantly increase production over the next three years.
The fields contain an estimated 2.4 Tcf 68 bcm of natural gas and 32.8MMbbls of condensate and light oil 2P reserves Optimising production: Energeans long track record in the Prinos Basin, operatorship of the and 2C resources.
Our strategy is to optimise production majority of our assets, and low operating costs per barrel underpin fromour existing low cost production our ability to maximise cash flow from our reserves and resources.
At the time of acquisition, Karish and Tanin were stranded assets base, ensuring the most advantageous mix with no gas contracts in place.
Along with receiving approval of of investment and production growth to Prinos development programme our FDP from the Israeli government in August 2017, we aimed to delivervalue and sustainable cash flows.
In the Prinos Basin, we have an ongoing investment plan from secure gas sale and purchase agreements with leading industrial which we expect to increase production over the next few years, companies and power producers in Israel.
By December 2017, the tapping the 38 MMbbls of discovered 2P oil reserves in the Prinos, Company had secured contracts with 12 leading domestic industrial Prinos North and Epsilon oil fields.
and independent power producers in Israel for the sale of 61 bcm of gas up to 74 bcm including the OR gas supply agreement Developing reserves: Developing Optimising Energean delivered 2018 full-year production of 4,053 bopd with over a period of 16 years on a weighted average basis.
The annual reserves production When allocating capital to our development fourth quarter production averaging 4,573 bopd, representing the production rate is estimated at approximately 4.2 bcm per year programmes we take a highly disciplined sixth successive quarter of production growth from the Prinos Area.
on an annual contract quality ACQ basis up to 4.9 bcm per year approach that means we only invest in During 2019, Energean expects to deliver at least a further 25% including the OR gas supply agreement.
This was 1.2 bcm above projects that deliver substantial value for our increase in production.
We continue to expect to deliver production the amount required to proceed with FID for Karish and Tanin and shareholders, and which can be delivered growth to more than 10,000 bopd by 2021 once the Epsilon satellite reflects the increasing energy demand in Israel.
in a low risk and efficient manner.
Our development has reached plateau production.
development programmes at Karish and Adding more Energean continues to see strong demand for its gas and future Tanin, and Epsilon are undertaken within In April 2019, we have delivered first production from the Epsilon field hydrocarbons Gas Sales and Purchase Agreements GSPAs and will target this framework and are expected to result via an Extended Reach Well, which enabled early production from both the growing domestic and key regional export markets.
In instrong returns for ourshareholders.
this highly prospective satellite accumulation.
The three well platform December 2018, ahead of its four well drilling programme, Energean development is progressing well and expected on stream in the next signed a contract to supply I. P. M. Beer Tuvia 5.5 bcm of gas over a year.
At peak, the field is expected to deliver up to 5,000 bopd.
The contract is contingent on finding additional This strategy is underpinned by our key competitive strengths: gas, which demonstrates both the attractiveness of Karish and We will continue drilling in the Prinos Area in 2019, with the exact Tanin gas to the domestic market and confidence in our upcoming Adding more hydrocarbons: location and target being determined to deliver maximal return on X We are an experienced offshore X We have the depth and diversity drillingprogramme.
We are highly selective in our approach to investment and value to our shareholders.
Owning the production operator, operating the majority of across a series ofassets at various adding hydrocarbons, be it through organic infrastructure and drilling rig at Prinos enables us to approach The development of the Karish field, which is expected to deliver assets in ourportfolio stages ofdevelopment to position us or inorganic means.
Low cost, balanced risk drilling from a flexible and nimble position, enabling us to optimise first gas in 1Q 2021, will materially increase the scale of the as a full-cycle, sustainablebusiness X We are well positioned as an exploration is a core part of our strategy, the programme based on the most up-to-date drilling results, Groups operations and support Energeans strategy to become independent,  X We have an experienced but we will always approach exploration information and analysis.
a major player in the Mediterranean gas market.
Production E&P company to move quicklyin an management team, with an with capital allocation and risk mitigation from the Karish accumulation will be solely used to supply Israel, increasingly active region international oil industry track We regard Prinos as a low-risk development due to our extensive in mind.
Our first exploration well, Karish with new discoveries earmarked for both the domestic and key record, who are significantly invested knowledge and experience of the Basin and its geology, the secured North, is well aligned to this approach, and X We have a track record of value regional export markets.
These assets are highly strategic for the inEnergean offtake agreement with BP that will fully cover the expected in early 2019 we have undertaken low-cost creation through timely acquisitions development of the Israeli energy market and will help to meet increase in production, and the control we enjoy as operator over seismic acquisition over acreage in Israel and costand time-efficient X We have a strong health and safety increasing Israeli demand, increase market competition and the related infrastructure.
development track record improve security of supply.
X We have world class industry partners such as TechnipFMC, BP and Repsol, and strong financial capacity 10Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201811 n o i t O a p c e o r l l a t a i l o a t n i a p l a e c x c d e e l l n e i l n p i c c e s i D
