Chairman's statement Philip Yea This was another year of progress for Equiniti, with the Group delivering a strong financial performance reflecting the continued successful execution of our strategy.
Revenue increased by 30.7%, driven by the business to prioritise the deployment Groups financial performance clearly strong organic growth and the acquisition of new customer facing features and to and appropriately.
The Board looks to of Wells Fargo Shareowner Services EQ transition clients to the Groups Sirius continually enhance the presentation of US, which completed on 1 February 2018. platform over a longer period than its financial results, listening carefully to Combined with our ongoing operational originally envisaged.
Overall, we are both specific and generic market and improvements, this led to underlying confident that EQ US will deliver in line regulatory feedback.
More information EBITDA rising by 24.5% and underlying with our expectations.
can be found in the Audit Committee earnings per share increasing by 6.5%.
DIVIDENDS The margin decline of 1.2pts to 23.0% BOARD AND GOVERNANCE We have a progressive dividend policy, reflects an increase in lower margin which sees us pay out around 30% of There were several changes to the Board remediation work.
Profit after tax was up the underlying profit attributable to in 2018.
As I noted in my statement last by 35.3%, and includes the non-operating shareholders each year.
The Board is year, Vicky Jarman stood down as a noncharges arising from the US acquisition.
proposing a final dividend of 3.49 pence executive Director at the AGM on 3 May Operating cash flow conversion was per share, to give a total dividend for the 2018, with Darren Pope succeeding her as 102%, demonstrating again the Groups year of 5.32 pence, up 18.7% on the 4.48 our Senior Independent Director.
Subject thank Vicky for her contribution during her The acquisition of EQ US was the to shareholder approval at the Annual four years on the Board.
most significant development in 2018 General Meeting AGM on 2 May 2019, the Alison Burns joined the Board as a and we are pleased with its progress.
final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2019, non-executive Director on 1 April 2018.
The separation from Wells Fargo and to shareholders on the register at close of She brings extensive experience of the integration into Equiniti is progressing well business on 12 April 2019.
We continue financial services industry, including and the business is winning important new to offer a dividend reinvestment plan and executive and non-executive roles at clients.
The US is the worlds largest capital any shareholders wishing to participate numerous blue-chip organisations.
Her market and we see real opportunities to should submit their election to do so by understanding of our financial services benefit our clients there by applying the 24 April 2019. customers is proving a valuable voice at technology we have developed in the the Board.
COMMUNICATING WITH UK, which will significantly expand the market we can address.
We have already SHAREHOLDERS Mark Brooker and Cheryl Millington were introduced our Riskfactor product to the appointed as non-executive Directors from The Board prioritises open US, with encouraging results.
Mark brings strong communication with shareholders and, in more detail in the operating review, management and operations experience as part of this, we look to present the we have revised our detailed plans for from technology-centric businesses and 18 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Having the right culture is fundamental to achieving sustainable success.
The Board is fully engaged with this important topic and the Group has launched a culture change programme and a refreshed set of values his time in investment banking is highly MANAGEMENT AND PEOPLE LOOKING FORWARD relevant to our marketplace.
Cheryl The Group has continued to build its The convergence of regulation has deep technology and leadership senior leadership capabilities below Board and technology, combined with the need experience from a diverse range of level, with a number of changes to roles to reduce cost, are powerful long-term relevant sectors.
Their appointments add and responsibilities among the senior drivers of growth across our markets.
further significant digital and systems team.
We also appointed a Chief People We have a strong leadership team with a expertise to the Board, supporting our & Transformation Officer, who will be key clear strategy for making the most of the ambitious growth agenda.
to driving forward our workstreams on opportunities ahead.
Notwithstanding In anticipation of these appointments, culture and people development.
For the the uncertain operating environment, we took the opportunity to review the first time, this role is part of the Executive including the possibility of a hard Brexit, composition of the Boards committees.
I want to thank the executive the Board continues to look to the future Details of the new committee team and all of our people for their with confidence.
memberships can be found in the dedication and their contribution to the Corporate Governance Report.
Having the right culture is fundamental to Philip Yea achieving sustainable success.
The Board Chairman is fully engaged with this important topic and the Group has launched a culture 12 March 2019 change programme and a refreshed set of We have a strong leadership values, as described on page 39. team with a clear strategy Dr Tim Miller, Chairman of our Remuneration Committee and a former for making the most of the HR leader with global experience, has opportunities ahead kindly agreed to become our nominated director to ensure that the Board has access to our employees views independently from management and we are well advanced in settling on the structures and processes that will allow him to do this effectively, in most cases through access to existing colleague engagement forums.
