Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Embedding Stability divisional leadership team that we have In last years Annual Report, been able to turn around the business in a relatively short space of time.
In order I stated that stability was to ensure the divisions future development and strategic focus we have had to further being restored to the business rationalise the divisional site footprint so that it can focus on the pharmaceutical, following the new corporate beauty and personal care end-markets we identified in our strategic review.
As a strategy unveiled by Chief result, during the year, we had to take the tough decision to close certain non-core Executive, Paul Forman.
and financially challenged Packaging sites.
These decisions were in no-way a reflection on the quality or dedication of our Dear Shareholder, employees at the locations involved, Dividend per share and my Board colleagues and I would Twelve months on, I am pleased to like to acknowledge the supportive and report that further progress has professional way in which employees 20.7p been made across the organisation have handled a difficult situation.
2017: 20.7p in stabilising our key commercial and operational metrics.
Beyond the Packaging division, we have made further portfolio management Female representation on Board This is evidenced by the return to operating changes in support of our corporate profit growth from a stable revenue base strategy and long-term shareholder value for the first time in three years.
I would like to formally welcome 42.9% my Board colleagues and I have the employees of Hertila, who joined 2017: 25.0% increasingly been able to turn our attention Essentra following the acquisition by our to the delivery of strategic objectives which Components business in July 2018 and who underpin how we restore Essentra to future are already making a great contribution sustainable growth based on the highest to our presence in Sweden.
Then, shortly standards of business ethics and best after the year end, we announced the practice governance.
divestment of our Pipe Protection Technologies PPT business A particular highlight has been the return to National Oilwell Varco, Inc..
The PPT to growth in the Packaging division during business has been a valued contributor the second half of the year.
While there is to the Essentra Group since 1994. still much to do in terms of improving profitability to industry-average levels, it is testament to the hard work of the 2 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Culture and values In 2018 the Board continued to deepen their understanding of Essentras working culture and witnessed the Six Principles become further embedded The Board was pleased to support See Our People the establishment of the Group from page 22 Sustainability Committee.
During the year, the Board continued Additionally 2018 saw the establishment People and culture to review the Companys strategy as of the Diversity and Inclusion Steering presented to the market in July 2017 and We are proud of our international presence Group which is beginning to thrive with to gain further insight and challenge in 33 countries and we recognise the vital a number of initiatives being put in place actions being taken to deliver the strategy.
contribution which our people make.
to attract, develop and retain talent across Indeed, during the course of the year, the organisation.
At the same time, the Board together with I had the pleasure of visiting several of our the Audit and Risk Committee, continually businesses in the UK, Europe and the USA.
The Board was pleased to support the reviews the Companys risks.
This has An active programme for Non-Executive establishment of the Group Sustainability included a specific review of the potential Directors to independently visit businesses Committee which was formed during effects of the UKs exit from the European commenced during 2018 and there are the year and reports to the GMC, the Union.
The Company has put in place a plans to expand this during 2019. focus being on providing advice on and number of mitigation strategies to provide co-ordinating  In early 2018 all Non-Executive Directors as much protection as possible.
attended the Leadership Conference in Charlotte, USA, which was attended by The Board needs to continue to develop The Board is committed to achieving approximately 100 of the Companys senior and add appropriate talent to support the and maintaining the highest standards management team.
During the conference business objectives.
Following a robust of occupational health, safety and we took part in the discussion on the selection process led by the Nomination environmental protection.
When Board continuation of work around the strategic Committee, my colleagues and I were members visit Essentra sites they are objectives.
We also visited the Charlotte delighted to welcome Lily Liu to the Board required to undertake a health and safety Packaging facility and participated in as Chief Financial Officer, to succeed walk around the site to focus on these a panel discussion with a Q&A session.
Lilys track record of important matters.
The Board fully The lively debate and contribution from international experience in relevant sectors, endorses the priority which these critical Essentras senior leadership team was together with her strong people focus, are workplace practices are now being given hugely encouraging, as was the positive a good match as we continue to restore under Pauls leadership.
Essentra to sustainable, profitable growth.
Having been with Essentra since 2013, A stronger company One of the Six Principles endorsed by I would personally like to thank Stefan for Last year saw stability being restored Paul and his senior management team his immense contribution and commitment to Essentra, and the Company moving is employee engagement and tremendous to the Company, and to wish him every towards achieving sustainable, profitable effort is put into making Essentra a great success in the future.
I am confident that 2019 will bring place to work, where talent and diversity continued improvement.
This included the annual Separately, since assuming the role of employee survey where weve seen an Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Paul Lester, CBE increase in employee engagement scores from Terry Twigger, Mary Reilly has Chairman bringing Essentras result in line with global overseen a highly energised process in 1 March 2019 and manufacturing industry averages.
making change and my Board colleagues The Board attaches high importance to and I have been particularly pleased with employee engagement and recognises the enhanced Risk Management processes, the challenges in engaging with global the interaction between the Group Risk employees.
Local management do a very Committee and the Audit and Risk good job of engaging with their employees Committee as well as progress in the and keeping them appraised of relevant roll out of the Global Minimum Control issues within their businesses.
I would also like to thank level, management are continually looking Tommy Breen for his ongoing counsel since to find ways to improve communication assuming the role of Senior Independent links with the businesses.
Director upon Terrys retirement from the Board.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3
