Strategic Report Chairmans introduction Our 2018 results have exceeded expectations Our Board composition has changed significantly and is now more diverse and independent After serving as a Non-Executive Director on the Board for nine years, it is a privilege to be Acting Chairman following the retirement of John Botts.
John served on the Companys Board for over 25 years, including as Chairman for two years.
He led the Company through important changes when the Company became fully independent following A strong set of 2018 DMGTs sell down in 2017. resultsreflect the hard The Company benefited greatly from his wisdom and experience over the years.
We thank him warmly for his service and contribution.
workour people continue Strategy toinvest into developing We are now in the third year of the strategy we announced in March 2016.
The strategy has delivered growth powered by our the business.
best-of-both-worlds operating model where business units which are close to customers are enabled by capable central services.
David Pritchard Successful M&A has long been a Euromoney strength and it Acting Chairman remains crucial to our strategy.
During the year, we successfully sold CEIC and EMIS together our Global Markets Intelligence Division as well as our minority stake in Dealogic.
These disposals generated significant capital for the Group which we have invested and will continue to invest in other areas aligned with our big themes.
Dividend Last year, the Company approved a new, progressive dividend policy based around paying out approximately 40% of adjusted earnings.
This year the Board approved a 16% increase in the interim dividend to 10.2p per share which was paid to shareholders in June.
Following a strong financial performance over the full year, with underlying revenue growth of 3% and a 2% improvement in Group adjusted operating profit margin, the Board is recommending to shareholders a 2% increase in the final dividend to 22.3p per share to be paid on 14 February 2019.
This will result in a total dividend for the year of 32.5p 2017: 30.6p.
Board changes Our Boards composition has changed significantly during the year.
We have welcomed four new independent Non-Executive Directors onto the Board Jan Babiak, Colin Day, Imogen Joss and Lorna Tilbian.
Following the appointment of Wendy Pallot in August 2018 as Chief Financial Officer, we are delighted to have increased female representation on the Board to 36%.
Gender is only one aspect of diversity and we continue to work hard at improving opportunities for all across every level of the organisation.. 04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report During the year, our largest shareholder, DMGT, rotated There is more to do but I am delighted to see that our staff have its representative directors with Lord Rothermere and Paul embraced these initiatives which we will continue to support.
Zwillenberg retiring from the Board.
Tim Collier, DMGTs CFO, Governance and Kevin Beatty, CEO of dmg media, joined the Board in their I have already referred to the more diverse Board we now have.
Particular thanks go to Lord Rothermere who had served In addition, independent Non-Executive Directors now form a on the Board since 1998 and whose support and insight have majority on the Board for the first time.
The appointment of new been critical to Euromoneys success.
We would also like to thank Non-Executive Directors has enabled us to increase the number Colin Jones, who retired as Finance Director in June 2018, for his of Directors with relevant financial experience sitting on our dedicated service and we wish him well.
This year also saw the formal closure of profitSir Patrick Sergeant share and long-term incentive schemes, now replaced by the During the year, Sir Patrick Sergeant retired from the Board.
Performance Share Plan we introduced in 2015.
Sir Patrick has made a unique contribution to the Group over My current focus is leading the process to appoint a new nearly 50 years.
Sir Patrick founded Euromoney in 1969 and his Chairman.
We are making good progress and expect to make our entrepreneurial spirit has guided and influenced the Groups appointment shortly.
success over the following five decades, first as Managing Director, then as Chairman and latterly as Non-Executive Director.
With the support of our shareholders, the work of our colleagues We are delighted that following his retirement from the Board, Sir and the expertise of our Board, I am confident the Company will Patrick agreed to become Life President of the Company.
Corporate social responsibility I want to say a few words about our employees around the world.
Our best-of-both-worlds operating model is enabling us to take a more joined-up look at our impact as a Company on the world around us.
David Pritchard Andrew Rashbass invited our staff this year to help make Acting Chairman Euromoney a great place to work.
We are conscious that staff 21 November 2018 make choices about where to work based on a range of factors and we must ensure that Euromoney can attract and retain talented people.
Becoming a 3.0 business B2B Information 1.0 B2B Information 2.0 B2B Information 3.0 Print Digital Embedded in workflow Monologue Dialogue Part of the industry structure Licensing revenues based on Advertising-centric Subscriptions customer outcomes Product-centric Customer-centric Solution-centric We aim to anticipate our markets development to become 3.0 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
