Annual report & accounts 2018 Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder, 2018 was a robust year for the business reinforced by strong global metals markets, EVRAZ efficiency initiatives and diligent strategic efforts.
I am very proud of EVRAZ achievements in 2018 and wish For the Board of Directors, 2018 was an important year with key initiatives implemented across the Group.
to thank the Groups customers, These include a major new drive in the area of Health, employees, shareholders and local Safety and Environment to strengthen the safety culture, adherence to new UK corporate governance code, communities for their loyalty and implementation of the new dividend policy and much more.
It was a busy agenda for the Board, and much was support over the past year.
Health, safety and the environment The absolute priority of the EVRAZ executive management has always been to achieve and maintain zero injuries and fatalities in the workplace.
However, six of the Groups employees and four contractors lost their lives in 2018.
This outcome underscores the view of the Board that more effort will be needed in this area with a focus on changing the safety culture.
Such change could be achieved with the involvement of each employee in the process of identifying and eliminating risks Audit Committee Nominations in the workplace and production process.
The Board, report Committee report and particularly its Health, Safety and Environment Committee, under the chairmanship of Karl Gruber, will continue to engage closely with the management team See pages 112115.
See pages 116117. to address this challenge.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information In 2018, the HSE Committee members distributed all of its shares in the Group to its direct are our most valuable asset.
Ahead reviewed the HSE Policy and Cardinal Safety shareholders in proportion to their holdings in joint of the introduction of the revised 2018 UK Rules and approved new five-year environmental controlling of Lanebrook Limited.
The relationship Corporate Governance Code, which contains targets that incorporate the important aim agreement between Lanebrook Limited and the important new provisions concerning of maintaining the greenhouse gas intensity Group was terminated and, following a detailed engagement with employees as key stakeholders, ratio.
review of the transaction, the Board approved the Boards Remuneration Committee worked the entry into new relationship agreements alongside the human resources function with its new controlling shareholders, Crosland to implement new policies and procedures Governance Global Limited and Greenleas International to ensure correct implementation of the letter Holdings Ltd, under substantively the same and spirit of the revised code.
This requires The Board continues to work to ensure that terms as the previous shareholder.
Subsequently, effective engagement with employees the Group operates in line with international best in December 2018, Crosland Global Limited, with the aim of their full participation in the life practices so that it complies with the guidelines notified it that it had transferred a certain number of the Group.
laid out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of ordinary shares in the Group to Abiglaze Ltd. During 2018, the UK Financial Reporting Council Following a detailed review of the transaction, published a revised Corporate Governance Code, the Board approved the entry into a revised Dividends which comes into force for the financial year relationship agreement with Crosland Global commencing on 1 January 2019.
The Board Limited, Greenleas International Holdings Ltd In 2018, the Board agreed a dividend policy, has reviewed the updated code and and a new relationship agreement with Abiglaze whereby EVRAZ aims to declare annual dividends is introducing several changes in procedures Ltd under substantively the same terms of at least US$300 million, subject to the financial and practices in order to achieve full compliance as the previous shareholder.
In 31 January 2019 performance of the business, to be paid in semiwith the updated Corporate Governance Code the Company entered into above mentioned annual instalments of at least US$150 million for the 2019 financial year.
relationship agreements with its controlling each, following interim and full-year results.
Based shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
upon the financial performance of the business, As part of its commitment to support the interests See pages 106107 for details.
the Board may consider a higher distribution level, of all stakeholders, the Board takes a long-term taking into account the outlook for the Groups view of how the business needs to develop within major markets, the Boards view of the long-term its industry and geographical markets.
It has Board changes growth prospects of the business and future capital reviewed the latest developments in technology investment requirements, as well as the Groups on the market to ensure that EVRAZ assets In August 2018, on the recommendation commitment to maintain a strong balance sheet.
are fully modernised to remain competitive, of the Nominations Committee, the Board In line with the Groups existing capital allocation while necessary financing is in place to meet appointed Laurie Argo, a highly experienced policy, no dividends will be paid out if the net debt the Groups requirements over the mediumindustry and geographic expert, as an independent EBITDA ratio exceeds 3.0x.
to long-term to implement projects with strategic non-executive director.
She has also been significance for the business.
appointed as a member of the Audit Committee During the year, the Board also discussed in place of Mr. Karl Gruber, who stepped down in detail the proposals to pay: an interim At its January 2019 meeting, following the annual from the Audit Committee with immediate effect.
dividend of US$0.13 per ordinary share, totalling review of Board Performance effectiveness, US$187.6 million, on 22 June 2018: a second the Board agreed an action plan for 2019, which I would like to welcome Laurie Argo to our Board.
interim dividend of US$0.40 per share, totalling continued and developed the review and approval Her appointment reflects her invaluable experience US$577.34 million, on 6 September 2018: function of the managements strategy proposals.
and skill set, but it also underlines the Groups and a third interim dividend of US$0.25 per share, Under the plan, the Board will strengthen its focus commitment to increase the representation totalling US$360.8 million, on 21 December 2018. on safety, environmental and other CSR issues, of women across the business.
as well as HR policy, in addition to commercial In consideration of EVRAZ robust issues.
performance in 2018, EVRAZ has announced Our people an interim dividend.
On 27 February 2019, In September 2018, Lanebrook Limited, a major the Board of Directors voted to disburse a total shareholder of the Group and with whom EVRAZ The Board pays particular attention of US$577.34 million, or US$0.40 per share.
had previously entered into a relationship to the development of the Groups human The record date is 8 March 2019 and payment agreement, notified the Group that it had resources policies, recognising that people date is 29 March 2019.
HSE Committee Remuneration Alexander Abramov report report Non-Executive Chairman See pages 118119.
