Experian plc 04 Strategic report Chairmans statement Putting innovation to work for our clients and consumers Three key external drivers are fundamentally for big data and analytics, real-time access to changing the world in which Experian data ingestion, speed and agility in how they operates: the ever-expanding amount of data use their data, as well as robust data security.
being generated: advances in technology We are also excited about new prospects to interpret and make use of data: and the emerging in the UK and Ireland and in EMEA, rapid change in attitudes and behaviours as as a result of the implications of the European we increasingly become digital consumers.
Open Banking directive, which has the potential We sit as a trusted data steward and a partner to transform European financial services and to consumers and businesses globally.
Our bring more choice, greater convenience and ambition and our opportunity is to help these more relevant credit off ers to consumers.
This key Experian stakeholders to drive better is possible due, in part, to the investments we insights and actions from data.
have made to transform our core technology.
Our greatest imperative as an organisation We also continue to make signi cant progress is to make sure that we continue to deliver across regions where both population and We sit as a trusted data steward on this ambition.
We achieve this by paying wealth are expanding rapidly.
In Asia Paci c and a partner to consumers and considerable attention to the strength of our we are introducing new credit scoring foundations, by building on our One Experian businesses globally.
Our ambition technology which is based on non-traditional cultural approach and through targeted, and our opportunity is to help datasets such as mobile data usage, and fide ned strategic investments.
The bedrock of we have been particularly pleased with the these key Experian stakeholders our business lies in sustaining the superiority performance of the team in Brazil, where we of our data, analytics and advanced decisioning to drive better insights and actions celebrated the 50th anniversary of Serasa tools.
This is not new for Experian it is a from data.
We recently completed the journey we have been on for some time, and expansion of our So Paulo DataLab where indeed a eld we have pioneered.
our data scientists are developing new Don Robert capabilities for our clients, helping them to Product innovations Chairman drive more insights from data and to develop During the year, the bene ts of our ongoing successful strategies for engaging with their investments have become increasingly visible customers.
This great work sits alongside the in the form of improved business momentum.
exciting innovations we are also seeing at our An important aspect of this lies in our data labs in San Diego and London.
commitment to innovation and the steps we have taken to remain at the forefront of what Our consumer business is a rapidly changing environment.
Innovation We are also making signi cant progress is a signi cant driver of growth for Experian, across our business-to-consumer activities, and we launched a series of major new which are now on an improving trajectory products during the year.
Our approach has having returned to growth in North America in been recognised externally and, for the fourth our fourth quarter.
Our identity protection off er consecutive year, Experian has been named in in the USA has been well received, backed by Forbes Magazines Top 100 list of the Worlds successful consumer marketing campaigns.
In Brazil, the response to our free score off er In North America, business-to-business has been outstanding and we have enrolled growth has been underpinned by new over 22 million consumers.
Our strategy in capabilities such as Experian Ascend, a the UK is also progressing well and we have new analytics platform and one of our signed up nearly four million people and taken most successful product launches ever.
an important step to accelerate our strategy Products like these deliver on clients needs with the acquisition of ClearScore subject to Strategic report 05 UK regulatory approval.
Once this proposed Valuing our people acquisition completes, our dual-brand strategy We are extremely pleased to have been will mean we will have more ways to assist recognised as a leading employer in the individuals who want access to personal Innovation UK by the Top Employers Institute for the financial products at the best prices, while also second successive year.
By listening to Innovation is a signi cant driver of growth for making it easier for lenders to provide more our people and actively encouraging new Experian, and we launched a series of major tailored credit off ers to consumers.
ideas, we continue to develop Experian new products during the year.
We recently as an outstanding place to work with a completed the expansion of our So Paulo Investment in cyber security high-performance culture.
DataLab where our data scientists are Information security will always be of the developing new capabilities for our clients, The diversity of our workforce is crucial highest priority at Experian.
This means helping them to drive more insights from to our success as a business.
It is our continually investing and innovating to stay data and to develop successful strategies ambition to have a workforce that is as ahead of fraud and the criminals who attempt for engaging with their customers.
diverse and varied as our clients and to exploit businesses and consumers.
We are committed to searching built a very capable information security team, the globe for the very best individuals, deeply embedded in our businesses around so that we can innovate and meet the the world and staff ed with top industry talent.
needs of our increasingly diverse clients.
We apply signi cant capital and resource Our progressive policies, in areas such eff orts every year to ensure the security of as exible working and paid parental our data and integrity of our applications, Corporate social responsibility leave, ensure that our employees can while deploying the latest tools in our ourish regardless of their individual Experian is focused on making a positive environment to detect and prevent intrusions circumstances.
We are using our greatest or loss of data of any kind.
Its an ongoing assets of technology, data, insights and people eff ort that is simply part of doing business.
Our Board to empower consumers, create successful The Audit Committee is fully engaged in businesses and improve public services.
Mike Rogers was appointed as a new providing information security oversight, independent non-executive director and supported by a dedicated management Chairman-designate of the Remuneration security risk committee, as described later Committee on 1 July 2017.
Mike brings over in the Risk management section.
30 years of banking and financial services experience, as well as strategic insight Experians role in society and focused execution.
We look forward Experian is focused on making a positive to working with Mike as we continue to Cyber security impact in society.
We are using our greatest develop and execute Experians growth Information security will always be of the assets of technology, data, insights and people strategy.
This means to empower consumers, create successful On 1 April 2018, we welcomed Dr Ruba continually investing and innovating to stay businesses and improve public services.
Borno as a new independent non-executive ahead of fraud and criminals who attempt to We continued to invest in a number of Social director.
Ruba brings extensive expertise exploit businesses and consumers.
We have Innovation projects during the last financial in advanced technologies and a focus on built a very capable information security team year, which all support our objective of supporting businesses adapting to the deeply embedded in our businesses around improving financial inclusion for the most threats and opportunities of technology.
the world and staff ed with top industry talent.
Notable Experian will bene t from her insight amongst these was our largest investment and understanding of digitisation and in South Africa with the intention of developing technology transformation across a risk score for the millions of people currently industries.
unbanked in South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa.
The hope is that through the utilisation At the 2018 AGM, Mike will take over as of a range of alternative data sources such as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee mobile phone data, we will be able to positively from Roger Davis, who steps down from USc44.75 impact the lives of millions of people.
I would like to thank signi cant projects included one in Spain in Full-year dividend Roger for his valuable contributions as a which we are building a debt recovery portal, non-executive director and his outstanding per share and another in Brazil where we are working to leadership of the Remuneration Committee.
standardise and automate local government Experian has bene ted greatly from Rogers databases to ensure that bene ts reach the considerable experience and insight during people most in need.
Overall we have invested his tenure.
US$4.5m in 20 Social Innovation projects over the last five years.
Looking forward We also encourage our people to use their Experians performance has strengthened skills to bene t society.
Many volunteer their over the past year, demonstrating the 46,000 time and skills to support their communities success of our strategy, our drive for and improve financial education.
In Brazil innovation and the increasing focus we Volunteering hours we launched a mobile financial education place on engaging both our clients and truck which will tour over 40 cities, providing by employees consumers.
Looking ahead, we will build financial education to people who are cut on these foundations.
I would like to thank off from the digital world.
You can see further everyone at Experian for their hard work examples of this type of work throughout over the past year and look forward to the this Annual Report.
next twelve months working together.
