Chairmans Statement Anthony Townsend, Chairman I am pleased to report another year of solid progress for your Company.
While geo-political developments continued to create dilemmas for the Numis UK Smaller Companies Index in a 70 30% proportion.
investors over the last year, equity markets recorded advances across This has provided a fair measure to assess the investment portfolio the board helped by an acceleration in the global economy.
For performance against while around 30% of the Companys assets the first time since the global financial crisis all the major economic have been invested in the UK.
With a larger proportion of the blocs are exhibiting decent levels of growth.
Better economic growth investment portfolio likely to be invested outside of the UK in the however, has led to a pick-up in inflationary pressures in some medium term as global markets continue to evolve, the Board will countries.
Rising yields in the US government bond market amid a continue to keep the make-up of the Benchmark under review.
tightening labour market in the country, combined with renewed trade tensions between the US and China, led to some volatility in financial With the shares standing at a premium for much of the year and markets in the second half of the year.
following conversion requests from Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock CULS holders, nearly 2.6 million new shares were issued in Smaller company share price returns were slightly lower than those the twelve months.
The share price ended the year up 8.0% at 1375p from larger stocks in the US and UK markets.
This pattern was with a total return for the year of 9.1% and stood at a 0.5% premium reversed in Japan and more materially so in Europe, where the to the diluted NAV versus the 0.8% premium a year earlier.
The economic recovery and stronger euro tended to favour lower market shares have traded at a discount from time to time in recent months, capitalisation companies.
The diluted Net Asset Value NAV particularly when markets have been under pressure.
The Board rose to 1,368.80p, delivering a total return of 9.3%, beating the is keen to reiterate to shareholders that if necessary, it will utilise its Benchmark return of 7.9%.
In both cases the bulk of the returns shareholder authority to buy back shares to control the discount.
This were made in the first half of the year.
is of course, subject to continued shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Companys Benchmark is a blend of the returns from two Long term returns remain strong.
Shareholders who had been indices, the MSCI All Country World ex UK Small Cap Index and invested for the last 10 years and who had re-invested dividends Net asset value and share price performance vs Benchmark over ten years Rebased to 100 at 30 April 2008 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 Source: State Street 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 F&C Global Smaller Companies share price Benchmark F&C Global Smaller Companies NAV total return total return diluted and total return 4 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT would have received a compound annual return in share price terms Our US portfolio also outperformed, albeit by a less significant margin.
of 14.8% versus the Benchmark return of 11.7%.
Of course, there In 2016 17 the US small cap market had been the best performer in is no guarantee that such returns will be repeatable looking forward, market terms, but in the last year it delivered more modest returns.
This but reflecting the strong returns over recent years and regular share was in spite of the benefit to future US corporate earnings resulting issuance, its pleasing to report that the Company achieved the scale from the reduction in corporate tax rates approved in December 2017. of market capitalisation to qualify for inclusion in the FTSE 250 Index.
Currency movements always have an impact and this year the dollar lost 6.1% against sterling, which held back the sterling performance Costs from both the US portfolio and market.
Rising US interest rates during Ongoing charges for the year edged down to 0.83% 2017: 0.84% the year also impacted some parts of the local market.
excluding performance fees and were 0.83% 2017: 0.86% including performance fees.
In the last year the collective funds that In the other markets, the portfolio performance ended the year we invest in did not earn performance fees.
Following the change behind the relevant comparative small cap indices.
European small to the management fee arrangements in 2016, we no longer pay a cap shares did well in the early part of the year as the Continents performance fee to the Manager, FCIB.
economy picked up pace, the French Presidential result boosted sentiment and the euro rose.
Later on, the problems in Catalonia Dividends and the more recent inconclusive German and Italian election results, For many years investment income has grown steadily on an led to something of a reverse.
Our performance in Europe fell well underlying basis, indicative of a healthy investment portfolio and the short of the return from the European small cap index with a number Managers focus on profit-making companies.
This year revenue of holdings failing to meet the investment teams expectations.
returns per share rose by 15.4% despite a headwind from a weaker dollar which reduced the sterling value of dollar derived income.
The A feature of recent times has been the better performance of Japanese Board is consequently recommending a final dividend payment of smaller company equities.
This continued in the past year with our 10.00p per share, up 21.2% on last years payment, making a total portfolio almost matching the mid-teens percentage return from the dividend for the year of 14.40p per share, up 17.6%.
This will be the MSCI Japan Small Cap Index.
While GDP growth is never likely to be 48th consecutive year of growth, and the seventh year in a row of dynamic given the countrys demographic headwind, many small cap double digit percentage increases.
The final dividend will be paid on companies nevertheless produced strong earnings growth.
8 August 2018 to shareholders on the register on 13 July 2018.
The other Asian markets also delivered solid returns in the year, Market and regional portfolio performance though late in the period renewed concerns surrounding US trade All parts of the fund delivered positive returns but the stand-out policy in relation to China had a negative impact.
Sectors and positive as highlighted in the bar chart below, was the strength companies dependent on the US for a large proportion of their of performance of the UK portfolio.
This delivered the best return revenue were understandably under pressure.
Although of less despite the UK small cap market lagging most of the other global significance to the Trust in terms of exposure, returns from Latin small cap indices.
The Manager once again managed to identify a American markets were helped by generally stronger commodity number of strong performers in the domestic market and avoided prices and lower interest rates in Brazil.
Our Rest of World portfolio several high profile corporate casualties.
lagged both the Asian and Latin American small cap indices in the Geographical performance total return sterling adjusted for the year ended 30 April 2018 20 18.8% 16.4% 15.7% 15 11.6% 11.3% 10.4% 10 7.1% 6.4% 6.4% 5.8% 4.8% 5 4.0% 0 UK Europe USA Japan Pacic ex Japan Latin America Portfolio Local smaller companies index Source: F&C Report and Accounts 2018 | 5 year.
Performance across the funds we hold for exposure to these Geographical weightings against Benchmark markets was mixed, with widening discounts on two investment as at 30 April 2018 trust holdings unhelpful.
Further details on the background to performance on a market by UK 2.4 % market basis is contained in the Managers Review on pages 16 to 23.
Europe 0.9% Asset Allocation The pie chart below and the table opposite illustrate the geographic North America 0.3 % allocation of the investment portfolio.
Over the year the Manager chose to remain underweight in the UK given concerns around the domestic economic outlook and political risks surrounding the Brexit Japan 1.2% process.
We remained overweight in Europe, where the improving macro-economic picture was felt to be likely to help company profits Rest of World 0.6% and market performance.
Exposure to the US was reduced on valuation grounds in favour of additions to the Japanese and Asian -2.5% -2.0% -1.5% -1.0% -0.5% 0.0% 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% markets.
The overall impact of the geographic market positioning versus the Benchmark was modestly positive over the year.
Source: F&C & MSCI Gearing The Board believes that using borrowings on an ongoing and structural basis will be beneficial to long term returns for investors as The Board markets appreciate over time.
Around half of the original CULS has There have been no changes to the composition of the Board during the year and all Directors will stand for re-election by shareholders at converted into equity and therefore use is now being made of the 30m Revolving Credit Facility put in place last Summer.
At the end the Annual General Meeting.
of April, 24m of this facility had been drawn down in sterling at a blended current cost of approximately 1.3%.
Taking account of the During the year, the Board performed an evaluation of the Chairman, residual CULS and netting off cash in hand, effective gearing ended all Directors, the Committees and the working of the Board as the period at 5.1% compared to 5.0% at the half year stage.
While it was concluded that all aspects of the Boards activities were operating effectively and that all Directors make The Board continues to review alternative options in relation to an effective contribution to the running of the Company, it was borrowing facilities with only just over a year to run with the existing recognised that three of the Directors have served for over nine years.
Discussions have therefore commenced as to the need for a CULS issue.
structured and orderly succession plan for the Directors.
While this plan is being developed and implemented, the Board has concluded that none of the current Directors independence has been impaired by length of service.
Geographical distribution of the investment portfolio as at 30 April 2018 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will revert to the Chartered Accountants Hall, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA on Thursday 26 July 2018 at 12 noon.
We hope as many shareholders as possible will attend.
The Manager will as usual give a review of the year together with his outlook.
A map of the venue is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 77.
Outlook Current economic momentum is supportive for markets heading into the new year but as usual, there are many uncertainties looking forward at the macro level both on a global and more local level.
Rising bond market yields as Central Bank support from markets is withdrawn is something that could undermine equities, as could The percentages in brackets are as at 30 April 2017 further moves on the tariffs front.
The lack of clarity surrounding Source: F&C 6 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC North America 38.4% 40.7% UK 27.6% 27.5% Rest of World 12.4% 11.1% Europe 11.8% 12.3% Japan 9.8% 8.4% OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT the UK governments negotiating position and objectives in relation to the future customs arrangements with the EU clearly remains a concern as we approach the formal exit in less than a year.
The Manager continues to meet companies across the industrial spectrum, seeking to maintain a portfolio of high quality and prudently financed smaller company stocks.
While political risk remains elevated and at some stage a market setback is always possible, the Board remains optimistic for the medium term.
Anthony Townsend Chairman 19 June 2018 The Company is listed as the third most consistently performing investment company over the past decade in recent research released by the Association of Investment Companies FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
