Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Chairmans statement Ferguson delivered a good operating performance in the year and has also made significant progress in the rapid execution of our strategic priorities.
In addition, we have returned $1.6 billion of surplus capital toshareholders and completed $415 million of bolt-on acquisitions while maintaining the flexibility of a strong balance sheet.
Given the Groups track record of excellent Good progress Governance cash generation and the continued strength Im delighted to report that Ferguson The Company remains UK-listed and of the balance sheet the Board considers it had an outstanding year in 2017 18 with meets the requirements of the regulations an appropriate time for an upwards good organic revenue growth in the published by the UK Government re-basing of the ordinary dividend.
USA and Canada in good end markets.
concerning narrative and directors The Board is recommending that last years Executing our consistent strategy has remuneration reporting.
We continue total dividend of 156.4 cents per share is resulted in a successful year with the Group to meet these disclosure requirements, re-based by 10 per cent with a further 10per generating a strong trading performance.
monitor developments and adopt best cent growth rate applied, representing the I would like to thank John, our Chief practice in corporate governance.
normal increase for the year.
This brings the Executive, his Executive Committee and all We describe how we have applied the total dividend for the year to 189.3 cents ofFergusons 35,000 associates who worked UK Corporate Governance Codes main per share 2016 17: 156.4 cents per share so hard to deliver this years performance.
principles in the Governance section of representing a year-on-year increase of The commitment of our associates and their this report on pages 50 to 96.
Subject to shareholder approval, dedication to serving our customers every places great emphasis on providing clear a final dividend of 131.9 cents per share day is the main reason the Company is and transparent reporting and believes 2016 17: 73.33 pence per share will be paid performing so well.
this Annual Report is fair, balanced on 5 December 2018 to shareholders on the and understandable.
The dividend is Shareholder returns covered 2.3 times by headline earnings per Looking ahead The Board is committed to maximising share.
Going forward, the Board will continue long-term shareholder value.
Our investment Ferguson has made excellent progress to operate a progressive dividend policy with priorities remain firmly focused on achieving this year on many fronts.
The Board is growth in dividends per share in line with organic growth, funding the ordinary confident that the Company has the right the long-term earnings growth rate of the dividend through the cycle and investing in strategy, leadership and culture to deliver Company.
In short, we want to maintain an bolt-on acquisitions that meet our stringent on its full potential.
Our consistent strong attractive, growing and sustainable dividend.
Any surplus cash after performance, together with continued Our balance sheet remains strong and we meeting these investment needs will be rapid execution of our strategy ensures continue to target net debt of one to two returned to shareholders.
the Board continues to look at the future times adjusted EBITDA.
In 2017 18, Ferguson completed two capital Board changes returns.
First, we announced a $675 million share buy back programme in October In May 2018, John Daly stepped down as 2017 which was completed in June 2018 a Non Executive Director following more at an average price of 54.48.
In addition, than four years service.
Johns resignation Gareth Davis following the disposal of the Stark Group, from the Board was a result of his increased Chairman the Nordics building materials business, business commitments elsewhere, most inMarch 2018, shareholders subsequently notably the listing of Vivo Energy plc on approved a special dividend of $4 per share, the London Stock Exchange where he is equivalent to about $1 billion, which was paid Chairman.
Pilar Lpez also stepped down on 29 June 2018.
The accompanying share as a Non Executive Director in July 2018 consolidation of 18 new ordinary shares for following her appointment to the Board of 19 existing ordinary shares was completed Inditex SA.
I would like to thank both John on 11 June 2018. and Pilar sincerely for their contributions to the Board.
You can find out more about our approach to succession planning at the Board in the Nominations Committee section on pages 60 to 61.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
