Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 16 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Health and Safety The steel industry experienced strong We deeply regret the fatality 2017: one in profitability for most of 2018 due to high October 2018 of Maxim Blinkov, a global demand.
As such, mills looked to contractor at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining increase their utilisation rates to maximise FPM, who was fatally injured after falling output, while in China mills also sought from a height in the processing plant.
Our to decrease their emissions by reducing goal remains firmly focused on achieving sintering and increasing use of higher zero fatalities or injuries.
On behalf of the grade direct charge material, such as Group, I would like to express our sincere pellet.
Meanwhile, additional supply condolences to the family of our colleague.
of pellet was limited, resulting in pellet premiums trading at ten-year highs.
For more information See pages 29, 33, 42, 52 In the 4Q of 2018, steel margins contracted reflecting increased global Year in Summary trade tensions and slower economic I am pleased to report another strong year activity, especially in China, while steel Steve Lucas, Chairman for iron ore pellet demand with premiums output remained at relatively high levels.
In general, As a result steel demand and profit the iron ore market in 2018 was notable margins fell.
To date in 1Q 2019, the steel for its unusually low levels of volatility.
industry in China has seen a gradual Average iron ore prices for 58% Fe fines recovery in margins, while margins in and the benchmark 62% Fe fines declined Europe have been slower to improve.
marginally compared to 2017, while the average price for 65% Fe fines increased In 2018, commodity producers experienced by 3%.
Pellets, however, were an exception significantly higher oil prices with an as steel mills looked to boost productivity.
average 31% increase in the price of Brent compared to 2017.
This drove an increase in Ferrexpos cost of pellet production along with other external factors, such as local PPI inflation of 18% while the Hryvnia RECORD PROPOSED DIVIDEND PAY-OUT RATIO 41% 2017: 25% STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 17 RECORD DIVIDEND PROPOSED, A INCREASED CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND REDUCTION IN NET DEBT appreciated marginally against the US Iron Ore Pellet Market Dollar adding further to cost pressures.
Iron ore pellets are a niche market segment, RECORD PELLET Ferrexpo remains a low cost producer representing 8% of the total iron ore export relative to the majority of its peers.
market, principally due to high barriers PREMIUM to entry, including the requirement to Underlying EBITDA for 2018 was US$503 beneficiate and upgrade the iron ore and RECEIVED IN 2018 million 2017: US$551 million.
Profit for the high capital intensity to establish a full the period was US$335 million 2017: mine-to-port pelletising operation which US$394 million while net cash flows is typically in excess of US$300 per tonne from operating activities were US$292 of output for a greenfield operation.
TOTAL RECOMMENDED DIVIDEND million 2017: US$353 million.
PER SHARE Pellets are one of the most efficient sources Ferrexpo further strengthened its of iron in the steelmaking process.
This balance sheet during 2018 and net debt has underpinned demand and profitability reduced for the third consecutive year for established pellet producers for many to US$339 million as of 31 December years.
As in the past, Ferrexpo continue to 23.1 2018 31 December 2017: US$394 believe long-term demand for pellet will be 40% 2017: 16.5 US CENTS million.
The Group has strong credit supported by requirements for iron ore of metrics with net debt to underlying a higher grade and in a form that reduces REDUCTION IN NET DEBT EBITDA comfortably below 1 times.
energy inputs, slag volumes and air emissions in the steelmaking process while Finally, I am pleased to report, subject to improving the quality of the final product.
shareholder approval, a record dividend This is likely to be further supported by the for the 2018 financial year of 23.1 US cents general decline of naturally occurring high 60% per share, a 40% increase compared quality iron ore fines and lump as well as SINCE 1 JANUARY 2016 TO US$339M to 2017 16.5 US cents per share.
ongoing consolidation in the steel industry in China and Europe, which underpins For further information Industry a general increase in utilisation rates.
See pages 24-28 It is with immense sadness that we saw reports of the catastrophic breach For these reasons Ferrexpo expects of a tailings dam in Brazil in January pellets to continue to receive a healthy 2019.
As would be expected, there are price premium relative to other types of likely to be far-reaching consequences, iron ore which will underpin the Groups including increased scrutiny of the profitability.
The size of the premium, global mining industry.
Ferrexpo however, is likely to vary in line with steel supports the establishment of an mill profitability reflecting the cyclical nature independent organisation to monitor the of the industry.
Given the limited availability safety of all tailings dams on a global of seaborne pellets, however, supply basis to ensure compliance with the disruptions can also influence pricing highest level of safety standards.
until the market is able to adjust.
The Group expects reduced supply of global Ferrexpo operates one tailings dam pellet exports in 2019 and 2020 following covering an area of 1,500 hectares.
The the major supply disruptions in Brazil.
dam is constructed on flat topography and the method of construction is the With the best steel mills in the world Modified Centreline methodology.
The amongst Ferrexpos customers, dam is inspected twice a year by the the Company is well positioned to Ukrainian mining regulator.
Following benefit from increasing demand.
the breach in Brazil in January, Ferrexpo appointed Knight Piesold, an For further information on the market international independent consultant, environment see Market Review See pages 20-23 to further review and verify the dams design, construction and monitoring.
For further information on the market environment see Operational Review See page 29 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 18 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Capital Allocation This portfolio of projects has the potential Following the publication of the Groups The Groups capital allocation strategy to increase pellet production volumes Interim Results in August 2018, a is to maintain an appropriate balance up to 20 million tonnes per annum.
number of irregularities were reported to between investment grade credit metrics, the Board including inconsistencies in A attractive dividends and investment In total, capex for 2019 is expected copy bank statements provided by the in growth opportunities.
This strategy to be in a range of US$220 million Charity to Deloitte, the Groups auditor.
has been designed to reduce the risks to US$300 million, subject inherent in operating in an emerging to realised pricing.
Explanations were received from market while selling our product in the Charity which were considered a volatile commodities market.
Ferrexpos investment strategy remains incomplete and unsatisfactory and to identify opportunities which are could not be independently verified.
As Balance Sheet value accretive to the Group and a result in February 2019, the Board During the year, Ferrexpos credit rating that can reduce operating risk.
established the Independent Review was upgraded by Moodys, Fitch and Committee IRC to look into this and S&P.
Ferrexpos credit rating is restricted Social Responsibility other matters which included seeking by Ukraine country ceiling and the For the year ended 2018, it is expected to determine that Ferrexpos donations Groups rating should improve in line that Ferrexpos pellet exports will be were used for their stated purpose.
1 with positive developments in Ukraine.
approximately 2% of Ukraines total export The terms of reference and the work of revenue.
The Board believes it is essential the IRC is set out on pages 69-70.
Ferrexpo aims to maintain prudent leverage to the Groups long-term viability to ensure metrics with net debt to underlying EBITDA a positive contribution to the society in As at the date of this report, the work of the as of 31 December 2018 at 0.67 times.
The which it operates, aiding the long-term IRC and its advisers in the UK and Ukraine Groups priority since 2015 has been to development of Ukraine and creating a remains ongoing.
The IRC has made reduce debt and it has repaid over US$500 stable operating environment for the Group.
some progress in receiving explanations million of gross debt since 1 January 2016.
In order to maintain its social licence regarding the inconsistencies contained As such, the Board feels it is appropriate to operate, Ferrexpo provides financial on the copy bank statements and has to readjust the use of available free cash support to a broad array of social received some third party evidence and flows from primarily deleveraging to include programmes and, in 2018, it invested explanations that could explain bank a more balanced focus on dividends and approximately 1% of total Group statement inconsistencies as well as investment projects whilst ensuring the revenue in these programmes.
some of the possible discrepancies in Groups credit metrics remain strong.
the application of funds by the Charity.
Independent Review of Charitable The IRC is undertaking further work to Dividends Donations to Blooming Land corroborate and verify the evidence and The Board is pleased to announce a special As part of the Groups Corporate Social explanations.
Its interim conclusion is dividend of 6.6 US cents per share 2017 Responsibility CSR programme in that the Charity is not a related party of final special dividend: 6.6 US cents per Ukraine, since 2013 the Group has the Group, its Chief Executive Officer share and propose a final ordinary dividend donated to a charity called Blooming Land the majority shareholder of Ferrexpo or per share of 6.6 US cents per share 2017 which operates through three sub-funds its executive management, as defined final ordinary dividend: 3.3 US cents the Charity.
The Charitys activities under applicable accounting standards per share.
If the final ordinary dividend include diabetes prevention, eyesight care or Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules.
At this is approved by shareholders, the total and support for the elderly.
In the year stage, the IRC cannot yet conclude as to dividend declared for the 2018 financial ended 31 December 2018, the Group the ultimate use of the funds by the Charity, year will be a record 23.1 US cents per made contributions to the Charity of however, there are indications that some share, equivalent to US$138 million 2017 US$9.5 million 2017: US$24.0 million.
Further total dividend declared: 16.5 US cents per work is required before any final conclusion share or US$97 million.
This reflects the The Board suspended donations to the can be drawn.
For further information long-term structural factors underpinning Charity in May 2018 following continued see the IRC report on pages 69-70. pellet demand and the continued delays in receiving additional information, solid cash generation of the Group.
which the Charity regarded as beyond the normal requirements expected of a A Capital Investment Ukrainian charity, and while it awaited the A Capital investment increased by 31% in outcome of a review into the Charitys 2018 to US$135 million 2017: US$103 2017 audited financial statements.
This included the Groups Concentrate Expansion Programme 1 CEP1 which will enable the Group to increase pellet output by 13% or approximately 1.5 million tonnes to 12 million tonnes per annum in 2021.
Ferrexpo has a number of priority projects and will continue to invest in these project in 2019.
Subject to available cash generation through the year and to debt repayments and dividend declarations, the Group will increase its annual capex expenditure to include initial investment into growth projects aimed at increasing pellet production beyond 12 million tonnes per annum.
US$135M CAPITAL INVESTMENT 2017: US$103M 1 UkrStat http: ukrstat.
ua express expr2019 02 17. pdf STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 19 The Board notes that the auditors have Ukraine The Board believes that Lucios deep been unable to conclude as to whether In December 2018, Moodys upgraded knowledge across commodities, including the Chief Executive Officer CEO does Ukraines sovereign credit rating iron ore, as well as his extensive experience or does not have significant influence or to Caa1 with a stable outlook.
The of operating in emerging markets, control over Blooming Land.
The Board upgrade was based on improved specifically in Russia and the former USSR, has formed a unanimous view, based on economic fundamentals which have is of significant value to the Group.
a lack of clear evidence to the contrary reduced vulnerability to external and unambiguous representations given shocks, expectations that recent People to the Board by the CEO over many years, reforms will improve transparency and The Board would like to sincerely express that the CEO does not have significant strengthen institutions, and higher its appreciation for the management and influence or control over Blooming Land.
resilience to regional geographic risk.
staff, many of whom we have had the pleasure of meeting on our Board site The Board together with the IRC are Moodys expects Ukrainian real GDP visits, for their continued hard work which committed to understanding the full growth of approximately 3.5% in 2018. directly contributes to the Companys extent of any issues arising from the Against this background of GDP growth achievements.
I am very pleased with the review and will continue to update and gradual ongoing improvements to the manner in which Ferrexpo has withstood shareholders as appropriate.
countrys fiscal and regulatory environment, market and country volatility since the the Board of Ferrexpo believes Ukraine IPO in 2007.
The Group is emerging is progressively moving in the right as a strong competitor operating to Given the extensive disclosures on direction although challenges remain.
ever higher world class standards.
the Blooming Land Charity in this annual report, for ease of reading and to avoid repetition, the following Board Composition Steve Lucas cross references are listed: Simon Lockett resigned from the Chairman Chairmans Statement page 18, Board in January 2019.
The Board Principal Risks page 45, Responsible would like to thank Simon for his Business page 59, Corporate contribution to the Group and wish Governance Report page 63, him every success in the future.
Independent Review Committee Report pages 69, Audit Committee Report In February 2019, Lucio Genovese was page 71, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note reappointed to the Board as a Non- 34 page 161 to the financial statements.
Lucio previously served on the Board from 2007 to 2014.
