02 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement Fidelity China Special Situations PLC was launched in 2010 to give investors an opportunity to invest in Chinas growing economy.
Since that time and up to the end of the financial year the value of our investment, as shareholders, has grown at an annualised rate of 12.5% including the dividends we have received.
When we launched, the question we encountered was Why invest in China?
Now it is What is the best way to invest in China?
We believe that our Company provides investors with a highly attractive way of gaining exposure to the growing parts of the Chinese economy.
Our Portfolio Manager, Dale Nicholls, has built a well-diversified portfolio, across a broad range of companies but particularly in small to medium sized companies with strong growth potential, focusing on Chinas New Economy and following the spending power of Chinas middle class which continues to grow in both number and wealth.
In particular, he has invested in companies that are part of the growth in the consumer economy: and avoided bank stocks and exporters.
Our structure as a closed ended investment trust has enabled us to introduce some gearing into the portfolio, and to invest in unlisted companies ahead of their intended IPO.
Having invested in two more unlisted companies since the year When we launched, the question end, we currently have six unlisted holdings comprising 5.3% of Gross Assets as at the date of this report.
Our first major unlisted we encountered was Why invest investment was Alibaba, which completed its IPO in 2014 and is now the second largest shareholding in our portfolio.
Now it is What is the best way to invest in China?.
I believe that a shareholding in Fidelity China Special Situations should be an important component in the diversified portfolio of any investor.
Risks The principal risks facing the Company and investors, as identified by the Board, are set out on pages 12 and 13.
Performance Review Over the reporting year, the Companys NAV total return was 22.2%, underperforming the MSCI China Index the Companys Benchmark Index return of 23.8%.
The Companys share price total return was 23.6%.
The year was characterised by very strong performance by two internet stocks, Tencent Holdings and 1,502.9m Alibaba Group, which also had a disproportionate weighting in the Index leading in part to marginal underperformance.
The As at 31 March 2018 weightings in the Index are currently being amended to be more representative of the universe of Chinese stocks.
Equity Shareholders Fund The following table shows performance on a total return basis during Dale Nicholls tenure as Portfolio Manager and over 3and 5 years and since launch to 31 March 2018: and both the NAV and share price returns remain well ahead of the Index over 22.2% these reporting periods.
Year ended 31 March 2018 Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share total return 03 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Specifically, we visited two of our unlisted holdings.
In Shenzhen, Since we met Jiguang, Chinas leading big data provider and mobile Total returns % Tenure 3 years 5 years launch app cloud service provider.
In Shanghai, we met Yiguo, which has teamed with Alibaba and leads Chinas online grocery market.
NAV per share 146.6 69.7 194.7 192.6 Details of our unlisted holdings are set out on page 9.
Share price 140.6 72.0 174.5 155.8 Our visit confirmed our confidence in the Portfolio Manager and MSCI China Index 98.9 42.8 85.1 87.6 his team of research analysts.
Gearing The Company has a three-year unsecured fixed rate facility MSCI Inclusion of Domestic A Shares agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000.
The Companys Benchmark Index is the MSCI China index in UK The interest rate is fixed at 3.01% per annum until the facility sterling against which we measure our performance.
In June 2017, MSCI announced that it would include 222 China To achieve further gearing, the Company uses contracts for A Large Cap shares in the MSCI China and MSCI Emerging difference CFDs on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
Markets Index and increase the number of constituents in the Further details are in Note 19 on page 67.
MSCI China Index from 152 to 423, in two steps: in June 2018 and in August 2018.
In May 2018, the final list of 230 new stocks At 31 March 2018, the Companys gearing, defined as the Gross was announced.
Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets, was 20.2% 2017: 27.6%.
This is within the limit set by the Companys Prospectus of 30%.
This is to be welcomed as it provides a more representative universe of stocks in the Index: and by increasing the weight Ongoing Charges of China stocks in the MSCI Emerging Market Index too, it will The basis of calculating Ongoing Charges under MiFID II require index tracking investors to invest more in China, which changed at the beginning of the accounting year to include should be to the benefit of our shareholders.
It will also reduce interest on bank loans and overdrafts.
This had the effect of slightly the dominance of the largest stocks in the China Index.
adding 0.24% to this years ongoing charge compared to the prior year.
Performance fees, all other finance costs and taxation Due Diligence visit to China continue tobe excluded.
The Board undertook its annual due diligence visit to China in October 2017, visiting Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai.
Dividend The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.50 pence per In Hong Kong we met Fidelitys investment, research and ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2018 for approval oversight teams and spent time with the analysts who cover the by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting individual stocks in which we are invested.
This represents an increase of 40.0% over the 2.50 pence paid in respect of the prior year.
Shareholders may recall In all three cities we met economists and commentators as that in last years statement, I announced a change in the way well as with some 15 companies in the portfolio, each of which in which management fees and finance costs are allocated we visited together with Dale Nicholls and the relevant Fidelity resulting in an increase in the amount available for distribution.
The dividend will be payable on 30 July 2018 to shareholders on the register on 22 June 2018 ex-dividend date 21 June 2018.
Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 77.
Discount Management The Companys discount narrowed from 13.2% at the start of the reporting year to 12.3% at the end of the reporting year.
The Board recognises that the Companys share price is affected by the interaction of supply and demand in the market and investor sentiment towards China, as well as the performance of the NAV per share.
Recognising these factors, the Board regularly reviews the level The Boards visit to China Silver.
of discount and discusses the ways in which it might be reduced so that the shares can trade at a level closer to the NAV.
The Directors also monitor market practice amongst peer group INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 04 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement continued companies and take regular advice from the Companys Broker the portfolio, and the Board is pleased to confirm that Fidelity on this subject.
The Board believes that at present the discount has agreed to cover these costs under its existing management is best addressed by repurchasing the Companys shares, when agreements rather than pass them on to investors.
This represents appropriate, according to market conditions.
During the reporting an ongoing saving to the Company which will be directly year, the Board authorised the repurchase of 500,000 ordinary reflected in the NAV of the Company.
shares by the Company to be held in Treasury.
These repurchases will have benefited all shareholders as the NAV per share has Board of Directors been increased by purchasing the shares at a discount.
Since After serving on the Board as a Director for two years, John the year end and as at the date of this report, the Company has Ford will be stepping down at the conclusion of this years AGM.
repurchased 300,000 ordinary shares into Treasury.
Iwould like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the Board and shareholders for his contribution to the Company.
The Board is seeking to renew the annual authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares to be either cancelled or In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for held in Treasury at the forthcoming AGM, as it has done each Directors of FTSE 350 companies, all Directors, with the exception year previously, and assures shareholders that it will keep both of John Ford, are subject to annual re-election at the forthcoming the discount and the share repurchase policy under review.
The Directors biographies can be found on page 21 and between them have a wide range of appropriate skills and Fidelity as Manager experience to form a balanced Board for the Company.
The Board has contracted with Fidelity to provide the Company with investment management and administrative services.
In Outlook reviewing Fidelity, the Board notes Fidelitys leadership position Even the lowest estimates of Chinas forecast economic growth in fund management in China where it employs a significant are in excess of the developed markets in the West.
I remain number of analysts on the ground in both Shanghai and Hong confident in the long-term future of the Company as our Portfolio Kong.
Furthermore, the performance of the Portfolio Manager, Manager takes advantage of the growth opportunities identified Dale Nicholls, since his appointment four years ago, has been by him and his research team.
well ahead of the Benchmark Index making the Company one of the best performing specialist China funds available to investors.
Annual General Meeting Wednesday, 25 July 2018 The AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Wednesday 25 July Management Fee Arrangement 2018 at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3YD.
Fulldetails of the Following Fidelitys announcement in October last year offering meeting are given on pages 69 to 71. its clients a variable management fee structure, the Board has agreed a new fee arrangement with FIL Investment Services UK This is an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Portfolio Limited, the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager the Manager and the Board.
The new arrangement will replace the Companys current annual fee of 1.00% of the Companys net assets per I hope that you are able to join us.
annum and will remove the existing performance fee of up to 1.00%.
The new fee will reduce the headline annual fee of 1.00% of net assets to 0.90% of net assets per annum plus a - 0.20% variation fee based on the Companys NAV per share performance relative to the Companys Benchmark Index.
The Nicholas Bull maximum fee that the Company will pay is 1.10% of net assets, Chairman but if the Company underperforms against the Benchmark Index, 11 June 2018 then the overall fee could fall as low as 0.70% of net assets.
This new fee arrangement will be effective from 1 July 2018.
In addition, the Board is pleased to confirm that the annual administration fee of 600,000 reduced to 100,000 with effect from 1 April 2018.
The new fee arrangement provides an overall reduction from the current management fee structure, especially in those years where the performance fee was payable.
Full details of the new fee calculation are set out in the Directors Report on page 22.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II With effect from 3 January 2018, the MiFID II regulation changed the way that external research is paid for.
Previously this research was paid for on a commission basis as part of the costs of transaction, but this is no longer allowed.
Fidelity uses external research to access specific technical expertise for the benefit of
