02 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement Fidelity European Values PLC the Company aims to be the cornerstone long term investment of choice for those seeking European exposure across market cycles.
The Portfolio Manager, Sam Morses, approach in managing the Companys portfolio is to look beyond the economic and political noise and concentrate on the real-life progress of listed businesses across this large and diverse region.
In running the portfolio, he focuses on researching and investing in stocks he believes can grow their dividends consistently, irrespective of the prevailing backdrop.
Companies with the cushion of a healthy and growing dividend also tend to be resilient during periods of macroeconomic uncertainty.
By investing in solid and sustainable dividend-paying companies, Sam believes that the Company provides core defensive exposure to European equities with the potential to outperform indices over the long term.
Performance The Company recorded a net asset value NAV per share total return of -4.8% for the year ended 31 December 2018, whilethe Benchmark Index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, returned -9.5%.
The share price total return over this period was -6.8%.
In a difficult year for equities, Sams strong stock selection capabilities were once again the significant drivers of performance with several of our high-conviction holdings contributing positively to returns.
In addition, the Companys NAV total return performance I have pleasure in presenting over three and five years remains ahead of the Benchmark see the Financial Highlights page in the fold-out at the front of this the Annual Report of Fidelity report.
European Values PLC for the Investor sentiment took a turn for the worse last year, particularly year ended 31 December 2018. in the second half, as markets faced twin headwinds of trade tensions and rising interest rates.
The market movements in Europe were in line with larger global trends in general, but the Vivian Bazalgette, Chairman environment was further aggravated by the chronic government budget deficit in Italy and political unrest in Spain, while the possibility of a disorderly Brexit and its implication for the European economy remains a concern.
As the Company is a 955.3m UK business with predominantly UK investors and no overseas suppliers, the Boards focus is on the impact of market and As at 31 December 2018 investment risk.
At the time that this statement was written, it Shareholders Funds was still not clear whether the Prime Ministers proposed Brexit agreement would eventually be ratified by Parliament, whether there might be an exit without any form of agreement or whether Brexit might be delayed by way of an extension to Article 50, which governs secession by individual states.
How markets will -4.8% react depends largely on what they have already discounted and in the Portfolio Managers Review, Sam gives a more detailed Year ended 31 December 2018 view on which European sectors and stocks held in the portfolio Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share might prove vulnerable in those circumstances.
The outlook in this respect is still finely balanced.
This is why Sam looks beyond these total return shorter term uncertainties and positions the portfolio for the longer term, by which time Brexit will be history, for better or worse.
These factors coupled with rising borrowing costs owing to -9.5% normalisation of monetary policy by various central banks, most notably in the US, resulted in a sharp sell-off towards the end Year ended 31 December 2018 of the year.
It was also a contrast to the relative calm which Benchmark Index total return had prevailed over the last few years.
Underlying the market movements was an increased number of earnings downgrades given slowing global growth.
Europe has many of the worlds 03 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC biggest exporters and the economy is particularly exposed to as reflected in the change of investment objective approved by global trade.
This also resulted in a significant fide-rating of equities shareholders at the Annual General Meeting last year, it considers in Europe.
that this is an appropriate time to move to a more clearly defined progressive dividend practice.
Outlook Lead indicators for the global economy have slowed, prompting The aim therefore will be to increase the dividend each year.
The investors to become more cautious.
While the regions economic exceptional circumstances in which this might not prove possible expansion is expected to be supported by favourable domestic include, first, if sterling were to rise substantially against the euro: demand, the pace of expansion is likely to be moderate.
Equity secondly, if economic trends prove to be unusually adverse: and markets are set to face some challenges due to ongoing trade thirdly, if the Portfolio Manager shifts the emphasis of companies concerns between the US and its trading partners.
Concerns held to ones with a materially lower overall yield than hitherto.
around the fiscal challenges in Italy, continuing uncertainty over In order to help realise its aim, the Board has decided gradually Brexit and the current slowdown in global economic growth, may to augment revenue reserves by retaining a minor proportion of negatively impact investors preference for risk assets.
Nonetheless, earnings from year to year.
By law this proportion is not permitted an uncertain market environment is likely to create buying to exceed 15 per cent.
By way of example, for the 2018 financial opportunities for long term investors, and in these circumstances year the dividend of 6.28 pence is being paid from earnings of your Portfolio Managers concentration on fundamentally strong 6.94 pence per share, a retention rate of about 9 per cent.
The businesses should continue to help performance.
Board expects that as revenue reserves build up, they will assist, OTHER MATTERS if necessary, in smoothing dividend growth year on year, in the Management Fees event of the sorts of exceptional circumstances outlined above.
With a view to reducing costs for our shareholders, the Board Finally, as the Company has a significant retail shareholder agreed a new tiered fee structure which was effective on 1 April base and in order to smooth the dividend payments throughout 2018.
The previous fee of 0.85 per cent per annum only applies the year, the Board has decided from the 2019 financial year to the first 400 million of the Companys net assets and a lower to pay both an interim and a final dividend, which it is hoped rate of 0.75 per cent per annum applies to net assets in excess of will be welcomed by shareholders.
It is expected that in normal 400 million.
Given the value of shareholders funds of 955.3m circumstances the interim dividend will represent somewhat under as at 31 December 2018, this represents an important saving for half the total dividend for the financial year, and will be paid in shareholders.
November 2019, following the interim results.
Allocation of Fees and Finance Costs Discount Management and Treasury Shares As mentioned in last years Annual Report, and effective from The Board operates an active discount management policy, the 1 January 2018, 75% of the Companys management fees and primary purpose of which is to reduce discount volatility.
As of finance costs are now charged to capital and 25% to revenue.
This this year, the Board is seeking to maintain the discount in single better reflects the balance of the capital and revenue elements digits in normal market conditions.
Buying shares at a discount of total return experienced historically over the longer term.
also results in an enhancement to the NAV per share.
The Board Previously, these costs were charged in their entirety to revenue.
has shareholder approval to hold in Treasury shares repurchased The change does not affect the total return although relative rates by the Company, rather than cancelling them, and these shares of taxation of income and capital gains may be a consideration are then available to be sold at a premium to NAV, facilitating for some investors.
As a result of this change, the revenue return the management of, and potentially enhancing, liquidity in the for this reporting year is higher than in prior years and this is Companys shares.
The Board is seeking shareholder approval to reflected in the final dividend proposed.
renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
Dividends As a result of the widening of the discount during the year, the The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.28 pence per Company repurchased 3,029,351 ordinary shares into Treasury.
share for the year ended 31 December 2018 for approval by Since the beginning of the year and as at the date of this report, shareholders at the AGM on 13 May 2019.
The dividend will be the Company has not repurchased any further ordinary shares.
payable on 17 May 2019 to those shareholders who appear on the share register at close of business on 29 March 2019 the Gearing ex-dividend date will be 28 March 2019.
1.79 pence per share The Company continues to gear through the use of derivative of the recommended dividend represents the increased revenue instruments, primarily contracts for difference CFDs, and the generated from the change in the allocation of the management Manager has flexibility to gear within the parameters set by the fees and finance costs as mentioned above.
As at 31 December 2018, the Companys gross gearing excluded, the underlying 4.49 pence represents an increase of 3.2 was 10.1% 2017: 13.2% whilst net gearing was 6.1% 2017: 3.6%.
In the reporting year, gearing made a small negative contribution to performance, as can be seen from the attribution analysis table While the Board has not sought to influence the Portfolio Manager on page 20. by imposing any income objective in any particular year and this remains the case the investment focus on companies capable The Board monitors the level of gearing and the use of derivative of growing their dividend has seen the Companys dividend instruments carefully and has defined a risk control framework for payments rise over time.
Because the Board acknowledges that this purpose which is reviewed at each Board meeting.
both capital and income growth are components of performance, INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 04 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement continued Board of Directors After serving on the Board for over ten years as a non-executive Director and nearly eight years as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Robinson stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 14May 2018.
At the same time, James was succeeded as Audit Committee Chair by Fleur Meijs and as Senior Independent Director by Marion Sears.
We continue to review Board composition and Directors succession on a regular basis to ensure that we have a Board with a mix of tenures and one which provides diversity of perspective together with the range of appropriate skills and experience for your Company.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and being a FTSE 350 Company, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders and put themselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of each Director are shown on page 24.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at midday on Monday 13May 2019 at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA nearest tube stations are St Pauls and Mansion House.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 65 to 67.
This is our opportunity to meet as many shareholders as possible, and I hope therefore that you are able to join us.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, Sam Morse, your Portfolio Manager, will be making a presentation on the years results and the outlook for 2019.
