02 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement Fidelity Special Values PLC aims to achieve long term capital growth for Shareholders by investing in special situations.
It is an actively managed contrarian Investment Trust that seeks out undervalued opportunities and thrives on volatility and uncertainty.
The Portfolio Manager, Alex Wrights, approach is very much in keeping with Fidelity Special Values heritage and history.
Alex follows the same successful investment philosophy as Anthony Bolton, the Companys first portfolio manager that of value contrarian investing, looking for companies whose potential for share price growth and recovery has been overlooked by the market.
He then holds these companies until their potential value is recognised by the wider market.
Alex only invests in companies where he understands the potential downside risk to limit the possibility of losses.
The Board believes that the Company is well positioned as the investment of choice for those seeking exposure to UK listed companies but with the benefit of investing up to 20% of the portfolio in listed companies on overseas exchanges in order to enhance Shareholder returns.
Performance The net asset value NAV of the Company increased by 8.7% over the year and the share price by an impressive 14.0%, I have pleasure in presenting the both well above the 4.7% return of the Benchmark Index all performance data on a total return basis.
As a result of the Annual Report of Fidelity Special share price performance, the Companys discount narrowed from 3.2% at the start of the reporting year into a premium of 1.5% at Values PLC for the year ended the end of the reporting year.
As Alex Wright completes his sixth year as the Portfolio Manager, Andy Irvine, Chairman the NAV performance of the Company continues to be impressive, having increased in absolute terms during this period at an annualised rate of 16.1%, significantly ahead of the Benchmark Index return of 9.4% p. a.
On a cumulative basis over Alexs tenure, this represents a NAV total return of 144.7% compared to an Index return of 71.3%.
The share price total return was 195.7%.
Alexs stock selection abilities have once again come to the fore in this reporting year, resulting in the outperformance against the Index.
It has been a difficult year for stock pickers as external headwinds and a weakening domestic macroeconomic backdrop made it a tough environment for investment managers, particularly in the first half of the period.
Geo-political noise, rising global trade friction and Brexit all contributed to this 725.0m uncertain environment.
Nevertheless, this also presented pockets As at 31 August 2018 of opportunities across the spectrum, particularly those areas where market participants have tended to ignore underlying Shareholders Funds value.
On a more positive note, the weakness in sterling see chart on the next page has provided the tailwind for many of the companies that generate a large proportion of their revenues in foreign currencies.
It is against this backdrop that Alexs focus on his investment thesis has succeeded in generating strong 14.0% contributions from many of our key portfolio holdings over the review period.
Year ended 31 August 2018 Ordinary Share Price total return US Dollar to Sterling 03 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Sterling weakness has driven market returns in 201 8 financial instruments of UK companies which the Investment Manager believes to be undervalued or where the potential has 7800 1.45 not been recognised by the market.
7600 1.40 The change to the Companys investment objective and the minor 7400 consequential changes to the investment policy are not material 7200 1.35 changes and are only being made to make the objective more 7000 consistent with the KID.
The change in the investment objective 1.30 6800 does not imply any change to the way that the Portfolio Manager 6600 already invests on your behalf and the Board believes that the 1.25 6400 change better reflects the Companys investment process.
A summary of the key aspects of the investment policy can be 6200 1.20 Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug found on the At a Glance page inside the front cover of this 2017 2018 report.
The change will be effective from the date of this Annual Report.
FTSE All-Share Index US$ to UK exchange rate Source: Datastream.
Management Fee I am pleased to report that, following a review of the The contrarian nature of the Companys investment selection management fees payable to Fidelity, the Board has agreed a means that the Board does not expect a consistent new revised tiered fee structure with effect from 1 September outperformance against the Benchmark Index every single 2018.
The current fee of 0.875% of net assets will be reduced to year, although it believes that the portfolio has the potential to a new rate of 0.85% on the first 700 million of net assets, and a outperform significantly over the longer term.
As ever, the Board further reduction to 0.75% of net assets in excess of 700 million.
encourages Shareholders to take a similarly long term view of In addition, the fixed annual fee of 600,000 for services other their investment in the Companys shares.
than portfolio management to include company secretarial, fund accounting, taxation, promotional and corporate advisory Outlook services will reduce by 500,000 to 100,000 per annum.
Based The outlook for the global economy appears to have moderated on net assets as at 31 August 2018, the new fee arrangement slightly and financial conditions have tightened somewhat.
represents an estimated saving of 10% per annum.
However, growth is expected to remain relatively robust.
The outlook for investment in the UK is more subdued than this time There will be no change in the investment process as a result of last year due to the persistent economic and political uncertainty.
We have seen financial conditions in the UK tightening as well, albeit slightly, but it remains encouragingly accommodative.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II Given this environment, a more discriminating approach will With effect from 3 January 2018, the MiFID II regulation changed be required to separate the best opportunities from those that the way that external investment research is paid for.
Alex will continue to focus on strong stock this research was paid for on a commission basis as part of picking opportunities and risk management and aims to deliver a the transaction costs and this is no longer allowed.
Fidelity positive relative performance of the Companys NAV.
The Board uses external investment research to access specific technical feel that the strategy in place is well aligned with the long term expertise for the benefit of the portfolio, and the Board is interests of the Companys Shareholders.
pleased to confirm that Fidelity has agreed to cover these costs under its existing management agreement rather than pass on OTHER MATTERS the costs to the Company.
This represents an estimated ongoing Investment Objective saving to the Company of between 0.02% and 0.03% per annum The European Union Packaged Retail and Insurance-based which will be directly reflected in the NAV of the Company.
Investment Products PRIIPs Regulation introduced the Key Information Document KID which is a new regulatory Discount Premium and Share Repurchases Issues requirement since the start of 2018.
The format of the KID is Under the Companys discount management policy, the Board largely prescribed and it is available on the Companys website seeks to maintain the discount in single digits in normal market www.
In order to better align the conditions and will repurchase shares to help stabilise the share Companys investment objective with the phraseology of the KID, price discount.
the Board is amending the investment objective of the Company from: The level of discount narrowed from 3.2% at the start of the reporting year to a premium of 1.5% as at 31 August 2018.
This The investment objective of Fidelity Special Values PLC is narrowing of discount and the Company trading at a premium, to achieve long term capital growth predominantly through gave rise to a share price total return of 14.0% for the year, well investment in UK listed companies ahead of the NAV total return of 8.7%.
Over the year to 31 August 2018, the Companys shares traded within a range of a 3.6% to premium and a 6.3% discount.
The Company aims to achieve long term capital growth primarily through investment in equities and their related Total return index INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 04 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement continued The Board will approve the issue of shares from Treasury if the Board of Directors Companys shares are trading at a sufficient premium to ensure Nicky McCabe retired from Fidelity International at the end of that the issue of shares is not dilutive.
I am pleased to say that December 2017 and remains on the Board as a Non-Executive in the reporting year, there have periods where the Companys Director.
She will remain non-independent due to her past shares have traded at a sufficient level of premium and employment with the Manager and also because of her tenure therefore the Company issued 2,050,000 ordinary shares from on the Board.
However, the Board was keen to retain her vast Treasury.
Since the year end and as at the date of this report, knowledge of the Company and the investment trust industry.
the Company has issued a further 725,000 ordinary shares from Along with all of the other Directors, Nicky will be subject Treasury.
to annual re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details for all the Directors can be found on page 26 to assist The Company did not carry out any share repurchases in the Shareholders when considering their votes.
The Board, between reporting year and none have been repurchased since then and them, have a wide range of appropriate skills and experience to as at the date of this report.
form a balanced Board for the Company.
The Board continues to monitor the discount premium closely and Annual General Meeting will take action when it feels it will be effective.
The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.30 am on Wednesday 12 December 2018 at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Gearing Street, London EC4M 5TA nearest tube stations are St. Pauls or The Board has agreed with the Portfolio Manager that if he Mansion House.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages is able to find attractive opportunities in the market, then the 67 to 69.
Companys gearing should be allowed to rise, and stay geared, as long as the opportunities remain.
Combined with Alexs It is the most important meeting that we, the Directors of your contrarian and value-focused investment philosophy, and making Company, have with our Shareholders each year.
Alex Wright, good use of the Companys structural advantages over its the Portfolio Manager, will be making a presentation to open-ended counterparts, this should continue to add value for Shareholders, highlighting the achievements and challenges of Shareholders over the long term.
the year past and the prospects for the year to come.
He will be very happy to answer any questions that Shareholders may have.
Following a period of weaker performance in the market, the We hope as many of you as possible are able to come and join Portfolio Manager has increased the Companys net gearing us for this occasion.
from 0.9% as at last year end to 6.6% as at 31 August 2018.
Net gearing is defined in the Glossary of Terms on page 75.
Note 18 on page 64 shows the Companys gross and net gearing at the end of the reporting year.
It is the current intention of the Board that, in normal market conditions, the Portfolio Manager will maintain net gearing in the Andy Irvine range of 0% to 20%.
The maximum level of gross gearing is 40%.
Chairman 31 October 2018 Dividend The Boards policy is to pay dividends twice yearly in order to smooth the dividend payment for the reporting year.
The Companys revenue return for the year to 31 August 2018 was 5.70 pence per share.
An interim dividend of 1.85 pence per share 2017: 1.80 pence was paid on 19 June 2018 and the Board recommends a final dividend of 3.15 pence per share for the year ended 31 August 2018 2018: 2.80 pence for approval by Shareholders at the AGM on 12 December 2018.
The interim and final dividends total of 5.00 pence represent a total increase of 8.7% over the 4.60 pence paid for the year ended 31 August 2017.
The final dividend will be payable on 16 January 2019 to Shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 December 2018 ex-dividend date 6 December 2018.
Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends for additional shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 70.
