Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 04 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement investment objective.
Since the financial year end a further Anthony Townsend 4,395,000new shares have been issued.
Chairman In order to facilitate this demand shareholder authority to issue further shares equal to 10% of the Companys issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis was renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in January 2018 and again at a General Meeting held just recently in November 2018.
The Companys share issuance authority will as usual be Dear Shareholder, proposed for renewal at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in February 2019.
Performance The Companys net asset value return per share for the year Return and Dividend was 13.1% 2017: 13.7% and the share price total return was The Income Statement shows a total return per share of 13.2% 2017: 14.2%.
Both have again significantly 93.6pence year ended 30 September 2017:89.6pence outperformed the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All-Share consisting of a revenue return per share of 16.5 pence year Index, measured on a total return basis, which rose by 5.9% ended 30 September 2017: 15.8 pence and a capital return over the same period 2017: 11.9%.
The principal per share of 77.1 pence year ended 30September 2017: 73.8 contributions to net asset value performance came from our pence.
major holdings in Hargreaves Lansdown, London Stock The Companys net revenue return during the year rose 4.4% Exchange and Fidessa.
More details are set out in the Portfolio from last year on a per share basis and your Board has Managers report which follows this statement.
declared two interim dividends for the year totaling 15.3 pence The Companys continued good performance and the per share year ended 30 September 2017: 14.2 pence a resulting strong demand for its shares has caused them to year-on-year increase of 7.7%.
trade at a small premium to the cum-income net asset value We are very pleased to be able to continue our dividend growth per share for the most of the year.
The share price ended the over the last nine years as shown in the table on page 11. year at 0.6% premium to the Companys net asset value per share 2017: 0.5% premium.
In light of the continued strong demand for the Companys shares and in order to facilitate dividend payments on a timely It is also particularly pleasing to note that our Portfolio and cost effective basis, your Board continues to elect to Managers long term strategy continues to deliver excellent distribute the Companys income to shareholders by means of returns with 1,000 invested in the Company ten years ago two interim dividends rather than wait until the Annual General now being worth 5,014.
This compares to a figure of 2,385 if Meeting to secure shareholder approval to pay a final dividend.
we had just tracked the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share Index, over the same period.
Transfer of Reserves Shareholders will note that as part of our continuing efforts to In 2002 the Company received Court approval in connection reduce the length of the Companys annual report we have with the cancellation of its Share Premium account.
This moved the explanations for our Discount Control Mechanism resulted in the creation of a Special reserve.
During the year and our investments in key service providers on to the your Board confirmed that there was no legal impediment to Companys website www.
the Company transferring the balance from the Special reserve to the Revenue reserve.
Therefore, during the year the Share Capital Company made this transfer.
Consistent demand for the Companys shares led to the issue of a total of 14,795,000 new shares during the year, ensuring Gearing that the share price premium was effectively managed As at the year end the Company was in the final year of its throughout the year.
The net proceeds received by the three-year secured fixed term committed revolving credit Company from the issue of these new shares amounted to facility of 75 million with an additional 25 million facility with 115.6 million and was invested in line with the Companys Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 05 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Scotiabank Europe PLC.
As at 30 September 2018 a total of 36.7 million has been drawn down - under this facility 30September 2017: 36.7 million.
We have given our gearing considerable thought over the year and have decided to renew our existing facility from October2019.
Outlook Despite stock market volatility over the course of the year the Company has continued to outperform its benchmark and deliver another year of strong returns to shareholders.
Clearly the lack of uncertainty surrounding Brexit is creating strong headwinds but your Board continues to support the Portfolio Managers strategy of investing in high quality companies that own both durable and cash generative brands.
We believe firmly that this will continue to deliver strong total returns in the form of both capital and income growth to shareholders over the longer term.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company this year will again be held at Guildhall, City of London EC2V 7HH please use the Basinghall Street Entrance on Wednesday, 27February 2019 at 12 noon, and we hope as many shareholders as possible will attend.
This will be an opportunity to meet the Board and to receive a presentation from our Portfolio Manager.
We thank you for your continuedsupport.
Following improvements in technology the Company will cease, with effect from our 2020 Annual General Meeting, to issue paper proxy forms to shareholders.
Shareholders will be able to vote on resolutions via our Registrars website www.
Apaper proxy form, however, will be available on request from our Registrar.
Further details of the location of the Companys Annual General Meeting can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
Anthony Townsend Chairman 17 December 2018 FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
