Chairmans statement FirstGroup has a diverse portfolio of Strategy market leading transport businesses, The Board is examining all appropriate means with half of revenues underpinned by to mobilise the considerable value inherent in multi-year contracts with national or the Group.
Initial actions from its evaluation are local authorities.
The Group has the underway, including: long-standing bidding and operational a full external review of Greyhounds expertise that is critical to success in business model and future prospects, itsmarkets and it is investing to create whichwill conclude in the coming months acustomer experience where improved growth opportunities in First Student passenger convenience helps to drive future growth.
We are now a more stable greater operational efficiency and a more resilient enterprise, with a partnering opportunities to provide growing ability to capitalise on the newsolutions leading positions we have in our markets.
Wolfhart Hauser investment in modern However, this years results fell short of Chairman customerconvenience.
our ambitions we are disappointed that As we do so, we will continue to strengthen we did not make the further progress we the Group by using the sustained cash intended, based on the trends we saw at generated after disciplined investment in our the end of the previous financial year.
The Group has leading services to reduce leverage further and for targeted growth.
Although our balance sheet market positions in each Results is less of a constraint on our structural options ofits five divisions and has Overall, Group revenue increased by 13.2% than previously, our pension deficit clearly and adjusted operating profit decreased by considerable opportunities remains an important consideration for the 6.5%.
In constant currency excluding the riskprofile of the Group, and we continue for value creation, but this benefit of the new SWR franchise and 53 toactively manage it.
Overall we see years results fell short of weeks of trading in theRoad divisions, revenue considerable opportunity to create increased by 1.0%and adjusted operating itspotential.
shareholder value in a sustainable way profit decreased by 10.4%.
Adjusted EPS was whileenhancing the services we provide broadly stable, reflecting lower finance costs toourcustomers and communities.
A clear focus onthe due to the improving balance sheet and the The Board recognises that dividends are an challenges and opportunities US tax reforms enacted in December 2017. important component of total shareholder of each ofthebusinesses It is encouraging, however, that the Group was return for many investors.
We remain able to deliver a net cash inflow of 110.5m will mobilisemore of the committed to reinstating a sustainable 2017: 147.2m, or 123.8m excluding the Groupsinherent strengths.
dividend at the appropriate time, having regard proceeds from sale of a Greyhound terminal in to the Groups financial performance, balance the year, whilst maintaining investment levels sheet and outlook.
The Board will not be in our services for passengers.
This excludes recommending payment of a dividend in the 88.5m of start of SWR franchise cash respect of the year to 31 March 2018 at the flows: taken together the Group recorded Groups Annual General Meeting but will 199.0m of free cash flow, helping to reduce continue to review the appropriate timing our net debt: EBITDA ratio to 1.5 times 2017: forrestarting dividend payments.
1.9 times, or to 2.1 times 2017: 2.3 times on aRail ring-fenced cash adjusted basis.
04 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report The Board Our people With effect from the date of this report, the Our frontline employees are key to the Group announced that Tim OToole had successof the Group.
Across the businesses stepped down from the Board and his role this year our employees have had to contend asChief Executive.
Theprocess to select with extreme challenges such as hurricanes, anewChief Executive isunderway.
Until wildfires and severe winter weather which suchtime as a successor isappointed, the tested their resilience to the limit.
In August Boardhas asked me toperform the role of wewelcomed thousands of SWR employees Executive Chairman.
Matthew Gregory has to the Group while they were in the midst of been appointed Interim Chief Operating Officer doing an outstanding job helping passengers and will also continue his responsibilities as through the London Waterloo station upgrade Chief Financial Officer.
programme, which caused major disruption across the network.
I am very proud of the On behalf of the Board I would like to thank way colleagues throughout the Group have Tim for his distinguished leadership of the put customers first despite these significant company since 2010.
During that time the challenges and I am inspired by their Group has reinvested in its businesses, extraordinary dedication to serving our restored free cash generation and customers and communities.
On behalf of the Board I would like to extend In February 2018 we welcomed David my sincere gratitude to our 100,000 Robbieto the Board as an independent employees for their continued commitment Non-Executive Director and Chair of the and hard work this year.
The Board is already benefiting from his extensive experience.
Overall, despite the issues this year, I am Corporate governance clearthat the Group has significant potential Sound corporate governance is a vital toimprove services for our customers while facetofmeeting our responsibilities to all creating value for shareholders and other ourstakeholders, and in the year the Board stakeholders, and that it is making progress has focused on further development of the toward that goal.
Boards understanding and approach to risk The Boards focus is firmly on taking the appetite, delivery of the transformation plans, actions necessary to accelerate and cement mobilisation of SWR, development of the that progress, so as to secure substantially Groups strategy and business objectives, increased shareholder value going forwards.
andreviewing the Board performance in lightof the Board evaluation exercise.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman 31 May 2018 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
