Chairmans Statement Our 150th anniversary year saw our long-held aspiration of the Companys shares trading at or close to NAV per share being reached and our first issue of shares since 1959.
Simon Fraser, Chairman Dear Shareholder, 633 pence.
These had both reached record highs during the year, but After enjoying several years of double digit returns, our 150th a change in sentiment led the US to joining other markets in ending anniversary year turned out to be the most challenging for equity down and resulted in a fall in the value of most of our investment markets since the Global Financial Crisis.
Despite these headwinds our portfolios.
Despite the turn in sentiment our US investment portfolio total shareholder return of -0.6% was better than the -3.4% from the performed relatively well.
This, along with good relative returns from FTSE All-World Index, which we use as our benchmark.
Our Net Asset our Emerging Markets exposure and very strong absolute gains from Value NAV total return, with debt at market value, was -3.3%.
our Private Equity portfolio, which is strategically positioned to provide higher returns than the listed equity portfolios over the longer term, Our NAV per share with debt at market value fell from 675.8 pence to helped in our modest outperformance of the benchmark.
642.9 pence per share and our share price declined from 647 pence to 1 FCIT NAV and share price performance vs market benchmark over FCIT annual dividend per share vs Consumer Price Index over 10 10 years years 400 180 350 160 300 250 140 200 150 120 100 50 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FCIT - Share price total return Market benchmark FCIT annual dividend per share FCIT - NAV total return Consumer Price Index Source: BMO GAM & Refinitiv Eikon Source: BMO GAM & Refinitiv Eikon 1 See Glossary of terms on pages 96 and 98 for explanations of benchmark and market benchmark 4 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Chairmans Statement A focus on the longer term Name changes While our one-year performance numbers are important, our In considering our desire to continue to grow the Company and the overriding investment objective centres on the delivery of longer optimal delivery of its investment proposition to future investors in a term growth of capital and income rather than the short-term.
I rapidly changing digital world, we have reviewed how the Company am pleased to say that over ten years the share price total return is is best identified and recognised on investment platforms and in 247.5% which is equivalent to 13.3% per annum.
Over twenty years it other forums.
The review led us to change the Companys name by is 406.9%, which equates to 8.4% per annum.
Dividend growth has resolution of the Board on 9 November 2018 from Foreign & Colonial also been strong, with an annualised rise of 5.5% in payments over Investment Trust PLC to F&C Investment Trust PLC in accordance the past decade and 7.1% over the past twenty years.
with approval given by shareholders at last years AGM.
We believe prospective investors will now find it easier and quicker to find us.
Earnings and Dividends It was another good year for our income.
This rose to 87.9m, helped At the same time as our name change, BMO Financial Group in part by 3.9m of special dividends, with Net Revenue Return per changed the name of our management company from F&C share up to 12.8 pence per share from 11.7 pence per share in 2017.
Investment Business Limited to BMO Investment Business Limited Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting the Manager and rebranded the F&C Savings Plans to BMO.
AGM, shareholders will receive a final dividend of 2.8 pence per share on 8 May 2019 bringing the total dividend for the year Cost efficiency and Manager fee review to 11.0 pence.
This rise of 5.8% compares with the 2.1% rise in the One of our Key Performance Indicators is cost efficiency as cost Consumer Price Index.
This adds to our long record of rises in real control is an important factor in the delivery of long-term growth terms: will be our forty-eighth consecutive annual dividend increase: to shareholders.
We therefore keep costs under scrutiny and review and, remarkably, will add to our record of paying a dividend in each and report two measures to shareholders.
Our Total Costs ratio fell year since 1868. from 1.06% to 1.01% for 2018 while our Ongoing Charges figure, which is more forward looking, declined from 0.79% to 0.65%.
The The total dividend proposed for the year is fully covered by earnings, reduction in these ratios reflect the benefits of scale obtained as a and we remain confident that your Company will continue to deliver large investment trust and lower investee funds charges following sustainable real rises in dividend per share to shareholders.
After a strategic switch out of the Global Multi-Manager funds portfolio in payment of the final dividend our revenue reserve will continue to the latter part of the year.
exceed one years worth of dividends.
We have also put in place, with effect from 1 January 2019, a tiered Further improvement in the Companys rating fee structure under which our Managers fee will now be based Our 150th anniversary year saw our long-held aspiration of the on a rate of 0.35% per annum of the market capitalisation of the Companys shares trading at or close to NAV per share being reached Company up to 3.0 billion, 0.30% between 3.0 and 4.0 billion, and our first issue of shares since 1959.
We started the year on and 0.25% above 4.0 billion.
This will help bring down our cost a discount of 4.3% but, due to improved investor demand, this ratios further as the Company grows with the benefits of scale being narrowed to 1.5% by its end.
Our average discount was 1.3% and passed on to shareholders.
for much of the second half of the year our share price traded at a premium to NAV.
The share issue was made in November and took Financial and corporate reporting the form of a resale of shares that had been held in treasury as part As we explain in the Report and Accounts, we take our investment of our progressive discount control strategy announced in May 2015. responsibilities very seriously and hold companies to the highest governance standards.
It is therefore imperative that we take our This issuance is believed to be the first that the Company has made own governance seriously and follow best practice requirements at a premium to NAV in its 150-year history.
Adherence to a discount as closely as we can.
We were pleased that a routine review of our control policy for nearly twenty years and the narrowing of the Report and Accounts 2017 by the Conduct Committee of the Financial discount more recently has helped to enhance returns for continuing Reporting Council raised no questions or queries from a legal and shareholders.
For the first time since 2002, no shares were bought accounting perspective.
We were also very pleased to receive the back.
Nevertheless, we are firmly committed to the use of buybacks AICs Best Report and Accounts award in the Generalist category.
in normal market conditions for the benefit of shareholders in the event of a re-emergence of the discount.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 5 Chairmans Statement He who understands it, earns ithe who doesntpays it.
Albert Einstein on the power of compounding, his eighth wonder of the world Paul Niven, Fund Manager, introducing some basic concepts to primary schools as part of FCITs initiative to promote 6 | F&C Investment Trust PLC better financial education.
Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Chairmans Statement We are adopting early key aspects of the revised UK Code of Building educational foundations Corporate Governance published in 2018 and have, for the first time, We also recognise that we have our own part to play within the included in our Strategic Report a separate statement as to how we, financial services industry in helping people to understand the as Directors, have fulfilled our duties in taking into account the wider benefits of using their savings to invest for the longer term.
This interests of stakeholders in promoting the success of the Company.
is becoming increasingly important as today individuals must plan As part of this we have provided more information on our approach much better if they are to secure their own financial wellbeing.
We towards environmental, social and governance issues and some are particularly focused on the younger generations by partnering insight into shareholder engagement activities carried out by our with a number of financial and educational organisations.
We will continue to aspire to the very highest standards of working with students of leading educational institutions who corporate reporting.
are about to enter the workforce, with a view to helping them appreciate and understand the value of investing for their long-term AGM and succession planning future.
Through our schools roadshow, we are introducing primaryThe AGM will return to its usual venue this year, Merchant Taylors level children to the idea of saving: helping them understand basic Hall on Thursday 2 May 2019 at 12 noon.
I will stand for re-election concepts such as inflation and compound interest.
We intend to build along with my colleagues on the Board but, as announced in October on these initiatives to create a lasting educational legacy from our 2018, intend to retire as a Director during the course of the year.
has certainly been a great privilege to have been so closely involved with F&C Investment Trust during its 15th decade.
The search for Outlook a new Chairman has commenced under the leadership of our The future political and economic environment is perhaps even more Senior Independent Director, Sir Roger Bone.
In terms of succession uncertain than ever with only a few weeks until we are expected planning generally, and in accordance with the Boards tenure policy, to leave the European Union but still no clarity as to how we are the implementation of a sequence of other directorship changes can going to do so.
Globally, as well, there are question marks on the be expected to follow the appointment of the new Chairman and major trading relationships between China and the US.
Additionally continue over the next few years.
the speed with which technology is disrupting traditional industries continues to accelerate.
Past, present and future On the morning of our birthday in March last year we were given the While this extraordinary uncertainty presents considerable risks, honour of opening trading at the London Stock Exchange and were it also creates significant opportunities for new economic activity acknowledged as being not only the first investment trust, but also and new companies.
While traditional global trade routes are under the company with its longest continuous listing.
Throughout the year threat, new ones are developing.
Through its diversified approach we were able to acknowledge the pioneering spirit and relentless to investing around the world in both private and public companies focus of our Boards and Fund Managers over the last fifteen decades both new and old, F&C Investment Trust is well positioned to take on our core purpose of providing the investor of moderate means advantage of these opportunities while weathering the storms.
For access to an internationally diversified portfolio.
The consistency of over 150 years the Company has endured rapid inflation as well as our approach has delivered amazing returns for our shareholders deflation, world wars as well as economic booms and busts but by through the power of long-term compounding of returns.
We have taking a long-term approach to prudent risk taking across a well calculated that an original investment of 100 with dividends diversified portfolio of stocks and shares it has continued to deliver reinvested compounding at 8.1% per annum has grown to around for its individual shareholders.
I have great confidence that it will 12m.
continue to do so in the years ahead.
While it is important to recognise and celebrate the Companys Simon Fraser past and present successes there will be no complacency about the Chairman future.
Be assured that your Board continues to work hard towards 11 March 2019 ensuring that the foundations, structure and resources for the continuing longer term sustainable success of the Company are in place, that the investment and marketing propositions are fit for purpose and our diversified portfolio provides great value.
