10 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FRESNILLO TODAY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Celebrating the last ten years, while preparing ourselves for the future.
Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman During its first ten years as a plc, Fresnillo Through the support of our workforce has achieved remarkable success.
The and local communities, as well as the company has positioned itself as one of introduction of new technologies to the most profitable on the London Stock improve working conditions, safety Exchange LSE, generating significant and environmental impacts, we are benefits for shareholders, local recognised around the globe as communities and Mexico in general.
a leading and respected public limited company.
Major achievements and milestones over this period include: an 80% increase It has been a privilege for me to lead in silver production and a 230% increase the development of Fresnillo from its in attributable gold production: four new initial establishment as an LSE listed mining operations and a strong project company to the present day.
During pipeline based on successful exploration those ten years, we have enjoyed high efforts: a 149% growth in employment: levels of growth and generated high investments of over US$135 million returns consistently across price in health, safety and training: direct cycles and through a wide range payments of close to US$32 million to of economic conditions.
support local communities, including primary education of over 8,000 children in 66 schools: more than US$2.3 billion paid in taxes: US$5.0 billion invested in new and existing operations: and over US$2.8 billion of dividends paid to shareholders.
0.5% Adjusted revenue 5.3% Silver production 27.4 US cents per share Total dividend for the year Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the same time, we have learnt from targets, despite guidance being lowered During 2018, silver and gold reserves the challenges encountered along the twice during the period.
This was due decreased 5.1% and 6.0% respectively, way, including the shortfall in production to continuing challenges at our main due to the reasons outlined in the at our flagship Fresnillo mine and the underground silver mines.
Production exploration section on pages 45 to 47. delay of a couple of projects, which in at the Fresnillo and Saucito mines Following the 2018 drilling programmes, turn have made us narrowly miss our was affected by shortcomings in our total silver resources reduced from 2.3 long-term silver target of 65 moz despite geological models and poor contractor to 2.2 boz, while total gold resources considerable investments in successful performance.
The geological models at increased from 38.5 to 39.1 moz.
On the positive side, we both mines are being revised and infill exploration mining concessions amount surpassed our long-term gold target drilling has been increased, while new to 1.8 million hectares in Mexico, 655,000 in 2015 and have continued to build contractors have been appointed at hectares in Peru, and 10,000 hectares in on that achievement over the last Fresnillo.
At San Julin, although both two exploration options in Chile.
phases have been operating above nameplate capacity, production was A COMMITTED AND TALENTED WORKFORCE...
The Board and I continue to place the temporarily impacted by water shortages utmost importance on providing safe caused by exceptionally dry weather.
A great company is built by great people, and healthy working conditions for our This limited access to certain production and Im proud to say that our committed workforce.
We are extremely saddened areas included in the mining plan, and teams from those working in mines and about the five fatalities during the year, as led to the need to process lower grade projects to their colleagues in offices well as a further one in early 2019, and our development ore from the existing across Mexico, South America and the thoughts are with the families and friends stockpiles.
UK have again demonstrated their of those concerned.
Our response has experience, dedication and talent.
been to further strengthen our procedures Having been part of Mexicos 500 years On behalf of the Board, I would like to and controls, with the ongoing support of mining history, Fresnillo is clearly here thank them sincerely for these efforts.
of an experienced engineer in charge of for the long term.
The key aspects of our safety, health and community issues.
longevity are careful planning, extensive In common with our industry peers as well development and preparation, not only as businesses operating in many other As you will read in the Chief Executive for the months ahead but also for the sectors, we face significant challenges in Officers statement and throughout this many decades to come.
As outlined by the ensuring that we have the right calibre of report, we are carefully considering the Chief Executive Officer on pages 14 to 16, people in the right jobs at the right time.
demands and challenges of the coming further investments in infrastructure and To this end, during 2018 we increased the years and we will invest in initiatives that technology are set to improve the rate number and scope of partnerships with will enable us to continue to grow and of development and construction of leading universities and the top earth achieve good returns.
the mining infrastructure to underpin science institutions in Mexico to develop production in future years.
new training programmes tailored to ACHIEVING YEAR-ON-YEAR GROWTH BY our requirements.
As a result, we have REMAINING TRUE TO OUR PRINCIPLES At the same time, the investments provided 194 students with first hand made in recent years are beginning to Proven and practical, our strategy practical experience during the year, bear fruit, including two major projects remained untouched during 2018. and 173 are now in full time training.
The new The focus on disciplined organic growth Pyrites plant to improve gold and silver...
LED BY A SKILLED AND and on our four strategic pillars of recoveries at Fresnillo and Saucito EXPERIENCED EXECUTIVE TEAM exploration, development, operations and the second line of the Dynamic and sustainability, enabled us once again Our Chief Executive Officer Octavio Leaching Plant at Herradura have not to deliver year-on-year growth, despite Alvdrez continues to lead the executive been without challenges, but are now silver production failing to meet our management team with distinction, contributing to production.
supported by Chief Financial Officer Mario Arregun and Vice President of The feasibility study for the Juanicipio The Group generated over US$2.1 billion Exploration David Giles.
project, a joint venture with Mag Silver, in adjusted revenue for the year, flat was completed in 2018 and the formal year-on-year.
Profit during the year Our Chief Operating Officer, Roberto approval of the project is expected in decreased, while cash and other liquid Daz, retired at the beginning of 2019, due course.
We are confident that funds were US$560.8 million at the year following eight years of service during Juanicipio will become a key project, end, a decrease of US$335.2 million over which our operations made significant maintaining our track record of high 2017.
Debt remained unchanged at progress and major projects were growth and returns.
On behalf of the Board, I thank Roberto for his OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS San Julin and Juanicipio are proof outstanding contribution and I am that our consistent commitment to pleased to announce that he has agreed Full production details for the year exploration through the cycles of our to continue to work with us as an advisor are provided on pages 24 to 25 of this industry pays clear long-term dividends on special projects.
In summary, gold production had for our stakeholders.
Although this years to be revised upwards twice during the results were mixed, the last ten years year, driven by a better than expected have seen a substantial increase in performance in Noche Buena and reserves and resources.
Although silver production was up year-on-year, it failed to reach our 12 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FRESNILLO TODAY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Saucito mine in the foreground and the Fresnillo mine in the background.
Our dividend policy is well-established, consistent and closely aligned with our commitment to create value through growth and returns.
We have recently made three senior The Boards duties include ensuring However, we recognise that there appointments, two of which are the highest standards of corporate remains work to do.
Our recent safety completely new roles for Fresnillo.
governance, as befits a constituent of record is unacceptable and we are Together, these appointments will the FTSE 100 Index.
As I report in my therefore bringing additional focus underpin our commitment to improving introduction to the Governance section and resources to drive improvement.
our safety record and preparing the on page 99, we are currently considering Group for the future.
Firstly, I would like the implications of the new version of the CHANGES TO THE BOARD to welcome Andre Sougarret, as our new UK Corporate Governance Code, which Guy Wilson retired from the Board at the Chief Operating Officer.
He brings great will take effect from 1 January 2019.
2018 AGM, following ten years of service.
mining experience and knowledge to Guy was instrumental in establishing and Fresnillo following a notable career in During the first half of 2018, our Senior then overseeing the work of the Audit the mining industry, previously holding Independent Director Charles Jacobs Committee and I thank him unreservedly important positions in Codelco and as engaged with institutional investors and for his tireless work, constant support Executive Vice President at Empresa others regarding Board composition and good humour.
He has been replaced National fide Mineria in Chile.
At the same and membership.
Again, you will find as Chairman of the Audit Committee by time, we have appointed a new Chief more detail about the outcome of these Alberto Tiburcio, who joined the Board Projects Officer who is responsible for conversations on page 99, including our and Audit Committee in 2016, bringing development projects, freeing up Andre hope that shareholders will support our with him extensive experience in audit to focus more on the operations side of position on this matter at the 2019 AGM.
Finally, and as mentioned earlier, our top team has also been Board members also maintain oversight During the year, the Board was supplemented by the appointment of our corporate culture, and at Board strengthened by the appointment of of a permanent specialist advisor who meetings we receive regular reports Georgina Kessel as an Independent has responsibility for addressing our from the CEO on our Ethics programme Non-executive Director.
Ms Kessel health and safety record, which was and how our values of Responsibility, worked in the Mexican government unacceptable during 2018.
Integrity, Trust and Loyalty continue to where she served as Secretary of State guide our actions.
In addition, our Head of the Ministry of Energy from 2006 to BOARD ACTIVITIES of Sustainability provides an annual 2011.
She also chaired the Governing presentation that gives us greater The Board supports the executive team Board of the Federal Electricity depth and detail about this matter.
by playing an active role in defining the Commission and has been president strategy, reviewing progress versus and member of the Board of Directors Our culture is well-established and plan and making sure that the business of Petrleos Mexicanos PEMEX.
ingrained in all areas of operations.
has sufficient flexibility to respond to She is currently an independent During the year we continued to conduct ever-changing market conditions.
As director of Scotiabank and Iberdrola master classes and deliver online training a Group, we work hard to ensure that and is a partner at Spectron.
The modules in order to ensure that all our capital allocation is balanced by growth, Board now has three female members, people, whether long-time employees or shareholder returns, financial strength demonstrating our continued recent ones, understand the importance and flexibility, while maintaining our commitment to gender diversity which that we place on the Groups values.
commitment to sustainability and sits alongside our insistence that all risk management.
Board members should also have relevant work experience.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS st nd Right The 1 and 2 Dynamic Leaching Plants at Herradura.
Far right Children from the Valdecaas community.
In view of the demands of his recent We declared an interim dividend of This will be a succinct expression of what appointment as Chairman of BBVA 10.7 US cents per share, with a final Fresnillo is and what we stand for and Bancomer, Mr Jaime Serra Puche dividend of 16.7 US cents per share, it will further focus the minds of all our resigned from the Board on 25 February bringing the total for the year to people on our culture and the things 2019.
The Nominations Committee has 27.4 US cents per share.
we truly value, such as safety.
begun a search for a new independent Non-executive Director of the Company.
OUTLOOK We have now established a long track My Board colleagues and I have greatly record for delivering growth and returns, In the short term, we are likely to valued Jaime Serra Puches contributions and our commitment to keeping that experience a lower rate of growth, to the Fresnillo board meetings over the reputation remains undimmed.
Fresnillo as we consolidate the progress made past five years.
His political insight has faces the future with confidence.
since our IPO and implement the been particularly valued and we have necessary investments and initiatives been grateful to have someone of his Alberto Baillres that will advance our pipeline and calibre and experience on our Board.
Non-executive Chairman underpin our future long-term growth.
We will miss his input greatly but wish him well for the future.
Political and economic factors, both in Mexico and across the globe, could also CONTINUING OUR DIVIDEND POLICY impact our performance.
For example, Our dividend policy is well-established, the buoyancy of the US domestic consistent and closely aligned with our economy is attracting some investment commitment to create value through that would otherwise have been directed growth and returns.
In short, each year towards our sector, while the China-US we aim to pay out 33-50% of profit after trade war as well as issues in South tax, while making certain adjustments to America and Europe are generating an exclude non-cash effects in the income unwelcome degree of uncertainty.
We pay dividends in the Mexico, we have a new administration approximate ratio of one-third as an and although we are yet to see any firm interim dividend and two-thirds as indication of direction, we are already a final dividend.
working closely with the Government.
Before declaring a dividend, the Board The Board and I believe that the carries out a detailed analysis of the developments currently underway, profitability of the business, underlying and those that will be introduced or earnings, capital requirements and cash extended during 2019, will position us flows.
Our aim is to maintain enough well for the years ahead.
In the coming flexibility to be able to react to movements months, and to comply with the 2018 UK in precious metals prices and seize Corporate Governance Code, we will attractive business opportunities.
continue to work towards defining our Company Purpose.
