Strategic report Chairmans statement An important year The year 2018 This has been a transformational year for Funding Circle.
InOctober, less than nine years after the business was little more than an idea in the minds of three young founders above a waffle shop in Oxford Street, it successfully listed on the Premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
We raised 300 million and in December Funding Circle joined the FTSE 250 index.
At the time of our IPO, we indicated a range of performance targets.
We have either reached or exceeded all those that fell in 2018.
Delivering on our strategy Our mission is to build a better financial world.
The model we use to achieve this is simple a platform which connects investors who have money to lend with businesses who need capital.
striving to always be the best in every aspect of what we do, This simple model, however, is complex to implement as we whether it is in assessing risk, talking with our customers or balance the needs of hundreds of thousands of small businesses interacting with colleagues.
with billions of pounds of capital from investors.
And our implementation is only successful if we can deliver the right The core culture of the team is consistently apparent through balance between our borrowers need for easy, quick and fair all our offices.
It will be important as a public company to access to capital and our investors need for an attractive and maintain this culture as well as the creativity, imagination and consistently positive return.
dynamism which have been the hallmarks of Funding Circles success to date and are the hallmarks of so many of the small We know that we are doing many things well as we pursue our businesses we serve.
We know that our borrowers tell us their experiences with Funding Circle are incomparably better than their experiences At the same time and for several years prior to listing, we have with the traditional banking sector.
We know that the lending focused on maintaining effective corporate governance.
The we facilitate to SMEs has a hugely beneficial impact on the Board is committed to compliance with the UK Corporate economies in which we operate.
We know that a diversified Governance Code and full details of the work of the Board and portfolio of our business loans produces consistently positive its Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
net returns for investors, which are significantly above what We established an open and transparent communication with they can earn from elsewhere.
our shareholders as we advanced through the listing process, and we shall seek to maintain this going forward.
The year ahead In anticipation of becoming a public company, we strengthened We are confident of continued strong growth in 2019, but the Board by appointing two new Directors Geeta Gopalan and weare by no means complacent.
We will only succeed if we Cath Keers both of whom have substantial public company continue to serve our customers through both the good and experience and are already adding valuable insight and expertise the not so good times.
Funding Circle was born out of the global to Board and Committee business.
financial crisis when SMEs found it almost impossible to secure funding from traditional banking sources.
If economic conditions I wish to thank our investors who have supported the Company again turn adverse, we will do all we can to ensure that the in its private guise and continue to do so now that we are a Company continues to find funds for SMEs.
They have always understood the potential ofFunding Circle and their long-term support is hugely To that end, the funds raised at IPO have provided us with a appreciated.
I would also like to warmly welcome all our new strong balance sheet.
This will enable us both to invest in our shareholders, large and small not least those individuals long-term growth and to take advantage of opportunities to who were already investors as lenders through our platform.
The combination of our market position, financial strength and the best team in the business Finally, Id like to thank all my colleagues for their extraordinary gives us full confidence in Funding Circles prospects in 2019 endeavours throughout the past year, where they have risen and over the longer term.
tothe challenge of transforming Funding Circle into a public company, while meeting the increasing demands of the rapidly Our team and our governance developing business.
I am enormously fortunate and proud to be Chairman of a business which has such strong values, pursued by a team Andrew Learoyd overflowing with passion, commitment and talent.
Non-Executive Chairman Our Chief Executive and founder, Samir Desai, has assembled 7 March 2019 a group of people that share his vision and commitment to 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
