CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUPPORTING CHANGE Focused on delivering value During 2018 we made progress in developing our plans to position the company for the future and in December 2018 announced that we had commenced a review of the options for the separation of our Cash Solutions business.
The board believes that a separation has the clear potential to enhance the focus and success of both Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions and unlock substantial shareholder value.
Strategic context JOHN CONNOLLY, At a time of great political and economic uncertainty, Chairman we believe we have a clear plan and continue to make progress against our strategic priorities.
More details on this progress can be found on pages 2 BOARD AREAS OF FOCUS 2018 to 5.
The review of the separation options for our The board action plan for 2018 was informed Cash Solutions business is underway and we believe among other things by the results of the board that this has the potential to create two strong, evaluation process and included: independent businesses, each able to take advantage of their strong market positions and service offerings Annual review of and development of plans for to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
This is execution of Group strategy consistent with the fundamentals of our strategy, Monitoring the effectiveness and performance which is to deliver industry leading, innovative of the organisation solutions and outstanding service, for our customers, Application of technology in the business engaging and rewarding work for employees and sustainable growth and returns for stakeholders.
Induction and integration of new board members Supporting Progress Board and management succession planning Planning for the future requires us to maintain our Maintaining understanding of the Groups focus on ensuring that the board composition remains stakeholders, including customers, employees fit to support the Group, as it evolves.
As noted in and shareholders the Nomination Committee Report page 90, board Continued focus on corporate culture succession planning remains a priority for 2019, particularly in light of our ongoing separation review.
Progress made in 2018 in all these key areas is set out in the governance report.
In addition, our Chief Executive and Group HR Director engage with the board each year on talent management and succession plans.
In promoting the success of the company for the benefit of its members, the board takes account of other stakeholders interests.
We will continue to engage with our stakeholders and we value greatly COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK the feedback we received throughout the year.
More CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE information about the boards engagement with stakeholders is set out on pages 86 and 87.
"In respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, the company has complied with the provisions Corporate Governance of the April 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"", which is available The board is committed to ensuring that corporate on the Financial Reporting Councils website governance is an integral part of our organisation."
The board has reviewed the companys performance against the UK Corporate Governance Code the The corporate governance report examines how Code and has concluded that the company complied we have applied these provisions.
with the Code throughout the 2018 financial year.
A copy of the Code is available from frc.
As part of our annual corporate governance review, the 72 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Board also considered the new provisions contained Adjusted PBITA margin rose from 6.2% to 6.5%.
"In within the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, which Cash Solutions, our North American Retail Cash applies to the company with effect from 1 January Solutions grew the number of locations served by 2019 the ""New Code"" and is taking steps to address 17% but did not have the same very large customer the new requirements."
The board is supportive of mobilisation as in 2017.
Overall Cash Solutions the changes which continue to focus on principles of revenues declined 9.3% and Adjusted PBITA declined good governance and promote a more thoughtful and 17.1%.
Group organic revenue growth was 1.0% and company-specific approach to governance.
Adjusted PBITA was unchanged at 474 million.
As explained in the Strategic Report, the industries The Groups adjusted earnings per share was in which we operate are going through a period unchanged at 16.7 pence per share.
The board has an important cash flow in 2018 was 96% of Adjusted PBITA role to play in reviewing our strategy, plans and 2017:107%.
The Groups net debt to Adjusted performance to ensure that the company is well EBITDA at the year end was 2.7x 2017: 2.4x.
positioned to address these changes in a way that is In August 2018, the board declared an interim consistent with good governance and the interests dividend of 3.59 pence DKK 0.2969 per share of our stakeholders.
The role of our separate Risk which was paid on 12 October 2018.
The board Committee remains important in supporting the is confident that the business has the potential to board in setting the right level of risk appetite and deliver good revenue growth in the medium term.
reviewing key risks, major projects and contracts.
The Mindful of the attractive opportunities to invest in work of the Risk Committee is described on page 96. developing new products, solutions and services in both Cash and Secure Solutions, the board proposes Changes to the board to recommend a final dividend of 6.11p DKK 0.5321 Broadening the boards capabilities and increasing the per share, payable on 14 June 2019.
This will bring the diversity of skills, experience and backgrounds of our total dividend for the year to 9.70p per share, in line board members was an important aspect of the work with last years.
of the board through its Nomination Committee during 2018.
People John Ramsay joined the board on 1 January 2018.
With 546,000 employees across more than 90 Hisextensive experience in international businesses countries, our people remain at the heart of and his background in finance and accounting are everything we do.
The board continues to support proving very valuable to our board and in leading our our employee engagement programmes and to Audit Committee.
promote the application of our values across theGroup.
As announced last year, after eight years on the board, Clare Spottiswoode stepped down after We also promote the use of Speak Out, our the companys annual general meeting on 15 May independent and confidential whistleblowing system, 2018.
Clare was instrumental, as chair of the CSR as an important tool to help us to monitor adherence Committee since 2014, in helping embed CSR and to our values and to take steps to ensure values and governance processes across our organisation.
On 18 behaviours are closely aligned wherever we operate.
June 2018, Elisabeth Fleuriot joined the board and was The board and I look forward to reviewing the results appointed to the role of chair of the CSR Committee.
of our 2019 employee survey and in the meantime, Elisabeth brings wide international management we thank all our people for their continued hard work experience in developed and emerging markets and and dedication.
an understanding of CSR matters together with a keen interest in sustainable development.
The work of the CSR Committee is described on page 93.
JOHN CONNOLLY Chairman As announced on 1 March, John Daly will step down after the companys annual general meeting on 16 May 2019.
I would like to thank John for his contribution to the work of the board, Audit Committee and his leadership of the Remuneration Integrity and Respect OUR VALUES Our business activities and relationships are built on trust, Committee.
The Nomination Committee has initiated honesty and openness.
We deliver on the promises we make a search to find a new non-executive director to join and treat our colleagues, customers and those in our care with the board.
Performance evaluation Safety, Security and Service Excellence We work in a safe way and take great care to protect our Our externally facilitated board performance colleagues and customers from harm.
We are experts in evaluation conducted between September and security and use that knowledge to protect our customers most December 2018 is described on page 84.
As in prior valuable assets.
We are passionate about delivering high levels of years, I led the performance evaluation process with customer service.
assistance from the company secretary.
Again this year, the results were very useful and insightful and Innovation and Teamwork We invest in technology and best practice to improve continually were incorporated into the board plan for 2019. our service offering.
We challenge ourselves to find new ways of helping our customers.
We work together as a team to achieve Underlying results the best results for our customers and our business.
Everyone has a valid opinion and their contribution is valued.
During 2018, our Secure Solutions business delivered organic revenue growth of 3.0% and Secure Solutions Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 73
