8 Galliford Try plc Chairmans statement Embedding good governance principles The Group has performed well, while dealing professionally and diligently with resolving the legacy and exceptional contracts in Construction.
The Board has been proactive in taking the necessary steps to reinforce the Groups financial position, ensuring we can continue to successfully implement our strategy to 2021.
Peter Ventress Chairman forward the planned increase in dividend Performance cover to 2.0 times pre-exceptional earnings The Board remains pleased with the Groups per share, which we had intended to achieve operational and financial performance.
Reflecting this, the Board declared three strong businesses and each made further an interim dividend of 28.0p per share for progress towards achieving its strategic targets.
the first half 2017 restated: 29.0p and is Linden Homes continued to increase volumes recommending a final dividend of 49.0p per and improve its margins, while Partnerships share 2017 restated: 57.0p to give a total & Regeneration continues to benefit from dividend for the year of 77.0p.
This is 2.0 strong demand and opportunity to grow both times cover using pre-exceptional earnings its mixed-tenure and contracting offering.
The final dividend will be paid Constructions underlying performance on 5 December 2018 to shareholders on continues to improve, as it maintains its the register at 9 November 2018. disciplined approach to bidding, while working through the diminishing legacy contracts.
Annual strategy review Reflecting this performance, we have updated The Board conducts an annual strategy review our targets as outlined on pages 14 and 15. in conjunction with the wider Executive team.
This exercise confirmed that the strategy Rights issue and dividend continues to serve us well and that the Group is During the year, we took decisive action to delivering against its strategic goals.
The review reinforce the balance sheet, as a consequence provided further support to the Boards of the increased cash commitments we faced Site visits such as the one to decision to raise fresh equity so we could on the Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route West Calder School in West Lothian continue to implement the strategy in full.
Our total cash help the Board to shape culture commitments before any recovery are within our Group Board changes and performance expected to exceed the original budget by As previously announced, Jeremy Townsend more than 150m, as a result of cost over-runs joined the Board as a Non-executive Director and the compulsory liquidation of Carillion plc, on 1 September 2017.
At the same date, one of our two joint venture partners on this I assumed the chairmanship of the Nomination major project.
While we were operating well Committee with the previous chair, Terry Miller, within our financial covenants and had remaining a member of the Committee.
sufficient resources to meet our obligations, restoring our financial position without Andrew Jenner retired as a Non-executive Dividend per share raising capital would have meant cutting Director following the Annual General investment in the material growth Meeting AGM on 10 November 2017, opportunities in Linden Homes and having completed nine years on the Board.
The Board Ishbel Macpherson also stepped down as a 77.0p concluded that shareholders interests were Non-executive Director after the AGM, due to best served by continuing to implement our her other business and personal commitments.
strategy and therefore we announced a rights I want to thank both Andrew and Ishbel for their issue on 14 February 2018, which raised gross important contributions to the Board.
Jeremy proceeds of 157.6m when it completed in Townsend took up Andrews chairmanship of April.
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank the Audit Committee, while Terry Miller shareholders for their strong support.
took over from Ishbel as interim chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Marisa Cassoni The Board also understands the importance joined the Board as a Non-executive Director of balancing investment with returns to on 1 September 2018.
It is intended that shareholders.
We therefore decided to bring Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 9 Financial Statements 2018 Creating value for our stakeholders Through our work, we create both financial and non-financial value for a wide range of stakeholders.
26,000 2.3m homes delivered by Linden Homes of time, money and materials and Partnerships & Regeneration in donated to charities over the last the last five years, including 5,359 sold five years, supporting vital work under Help to Buy, enabling people in our communities.
to get on the property ladder or to move within it.
4.4bn 80m of contracts undertaken for public committed to communities and regulated sector customers over through planning obligations in the last five years, supporting services the past five years.
Terry Miller will step down as interim chair and infrastructure that are critical to of the Remuneration Committee following our way of life.
publication of the Groups half year results in February 2019, wherein Marisa will become the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
62,198 250m We have continued to formally review the Boards performance.
The results of this years training days provided to our of corporation tax and other taxes paid Board and Committee evaluation survey, my individual meetings with the directors and people over the last five years, over the last five years, contributing to the way the Board has worked together this helping them to develop the UKs public finances.
year have confirmed to me that we have a professionally and personally.
strong Board, with good people who are willing to go the extra mile to steer the Group through important decisions.
7.5bn 326.7m People and culture Having the right culture is one of the keys spent with our subcontractors over of dividends paid to shareholders to sustainable success.
The Board therefore the last five years, helping to support over the last five years.
spends time with the Executive team to jobs in our local communities.
understand what they are doing to develop the Groups culture, to provide support and advice See Operating sustainability p40 and to monitor progress.
Each year, there are at least two Board visits to parts of the business, which help us to test the culture with the people we meet.
It is evident from these discussions that Peter Truscotts planned changes are bearing fruit.
More information on our culture can be found in Peters statement on page 10.
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank everyone in Galliford Try for their contribution to a successful year.
Conclusion We remain confident that Galliford Try has the right strategy and is implementing it successfully, while the actions we have taken this year will ensure we have the financial resources required.
The Board looks forward to further success in the future.
