16 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAKING STRATEGIC PRO PROG GR RE ES SS S The Board was pleased with Genuss GENUS CONTINUED progress this year, as the executive TO SUCCESSFULLY team continued to successfully implement the Groups strategy IMPLEMENT ITS and delivered further revenue STRATEGY AND and adjusted profit growth, while investing for the future.
Genus PIC DELIVERED FURTHER had a good year, increasing both REVENUE AND revenue and adjusted operating profit PROFIT GROWTH in constant currency.
Genus ABS performed strongly, as we saw BOB LAWSON benefits from the strategic and CHAIR OF THE BOARD operational actions taken and the launch of Sexcel.
Our increasing investment in R&D has continued to deliver, generating differentiated products for our customers and positioning Genus to lead the way in exciting new areas, such as gene editing.
17.9p The Group aims to balance investment in the business with the discipline of Final dividend per share generating attractive returns on capital and paying a growing dividend to shareholders.
The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend of 17.9 pence per share, resulting in a 26.0p total dividend in respect of the year of 26.0 pence per share.
This is an Total dividend for the year increase of 10%, compared with last per share years total dividend of 23.6 pence per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 30 November 2018, to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 November 2018.
10% Total dividend increase Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 17 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Continued Strategic Progress gained during more than 30 years in The Groups strategy is a key academic and commercial research OUR VALUES focus for the Board and we spend organisations.
His recruitment ensures considerable time each year reviewing we will have a seamless transition, it and monitoring progress, in the as Professor Duncan Maskell steps CUSTOMER CENTRIC context of the evolving competitive down from the Board after the Annual We are one team, dedicated to and technological environment.
This General Meeting in November, to focus helping customers thrive.
We includes our annual strategic review on his new role as Vice Chancellor anticipate their needs and help with the executive leadership team, of the University of Melbourne.
On them seize opportunities, acting which enables us to assess, challenge behalf of the Board, I thank Duncan as partners to improve quality, and approve the detailed strategic for the expertise and guidance he has efficiency and output.
If were not plans for each area of the Group.
provided during his four years as a adding value for our customers, Non-Executive Director and as advisor we stop and think again.
One of the years key strategic to our Research and Development developments was the launch of Portfolio Management Team.
Sexcel, our proprietary sexed bovine genetics offering.
This is delivering I also want to thank everyone in Genus RESULTS DRIVEN excellent fertility results for customers, for their contribution to our success this We are proactive, determined to be helping to drive sales ahead of our year.
The Group employs approximately the best we can be and to exceed expectations.
We are also licensing 2,900 people worldwide and all play expectations.
We redefine the underlying technology to third an important part in delivering for our standards for ourselves, our parties, under the IntelliGen brand, customers.
A special mention goes to customers and our industry.
Every with early successes with a number the team that built and launched Sexcel one of us takes pride in delivering of international customers.
and IntelliGen, our ground-breaking the highest level of performance.
sexed bovine genetics technology, who Ifsomething can be improved, we PICs growth was driven by strong received this years Chairmans Award.
find a simpler, better way to do it.
performance in Latin America and The award recognises teams that have pleasingly in Europe, where the business created something truly innovative in has been transformed over a number of response to customers needs, and PIONEERING years to now deliver sustained growth whose work is a source of inspiration in volumes, royalties and operating to colleagues.
The foundation of the We are an innovative, forwardprofits.
In addition to organic growth, teams work was laid over a decade ago thinking company.
We have the the business benefited from one of and has led, through a pioneering spirit courage and confidence to explore last years important strategic actions, coupled with drive, determination and new ideas and the energy and the acquisition of Hermitages porcine customer focus, to technology with the enthusiasm to deliver them.
We are genetics and the creation of an ongoing potential to transform our industry.
This creative, tenacious and resourceful strategic partnership with Hermitage.
is a real demonstration of our values in in every area of our work.
This year, the Board approved a strategic action, resulting in tangible benefits for relationship with leading Danish pig our customers and our shareholders.
breeder Mllevang, which became PEOPLE FOCUSED effective on 2 July 2018 and will Summary further enhance our prospects in PIC.
This years progress again demonstrates We are a business rooted in science that the successful execution of but built around our people.
We Board and People Genuss strategy is both delivering inspire, challenge and support We continued to both refresh and strong financial performance and everyone to perform, develop and strengthen the Board during the year, positioning the Group for further grow.
We treat others with respect with the appointment of two Nonsuccess.
We therefore look forward and we invite views and feedback to Executive Directors.
Lesley Knox joined to the future with confidence.
She brings Non-Executive experience from a wide Bob Lawson range of major companies and her Chair of the Board RESPONSIBLE insights will help the Board to oversee 5 September 2018 and implement the strategy.
Professor We are ethical to our core.
We feel Ian Charles was appointed on 1 July a deep sense of responsibility to 2018.
He has deep scientific expertise, our customers, colleagues, animals, communities and shareholders.
We are honest, reliable and trustworthy.
We mean what we say and do what we say.
