02 GSK Annual Report 2018 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that 2018 was a year of good financial performance for GSK with improvements in sales, earnings and, particularly, cash flow generation.
The delivery against operating targets was excellent, with notably successful launches of new products.
It was also a year in which the strategic shape of GSK in the coming years has been redefined.
Research & development Capital allocation Success in R&D will always be fundamental to shareholder returns.
Improving GSKs pipeline of new medicines remains the first priority A renewed focus on R&D was set out by Emma Walmsley when she for investment.
We also continue to invest behind key products, became CEO in 2017, and a new plan to improve the pipeline of new including increasing the manufacturing capacity of Shingrix, medicines has now been launched by Dr Hal Barron, our new Chief GSKs very successful new vaccine to help prevent shingles.
Dividend payments form part of the Groups capital allocation Progress is most evident in oncology, with some promising assets framework and the Board recognises the importance of dividends in our own laboratories.
We have also acquired Tesaro, an oncology to shareholders.
Total dividends of 80p per share were paid in 2018 focused biotechnology company based in Boston, which has and for the first time in several years the cash flow has covered the a marketed oncology product and several pipeline assets with dividend payments.
The same level of dividend is expected in 2019. development potential.
Even more recently, we have proposed Cash generation should remain a key focus given the marked an alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to develop increase in net debt, most of which arose from taking full control a promising new oncology medicine.
of the Consumer Healthcare business.
Through the Board Science Committee, the Directors continue Financial reporting to engage closely with the executives on the actions being taken I have noted before that commercial structures and reporting to improve scientific innovation.
A focus on world-class innovation requirements sometimes lead to more complexity in reporting is essential to drive long-term value for investors.
We continue to evolve our financial reporting Future direction and over the course of 2018 we made further changes to give In addition to increasing investment in Pharmaceuticals, we also greater prominence to Total results, which represent the Groups took steps to strengthen the Consumer Healthcare business in 2018. overall performance experienced by shareholders.
The company The first step was the buyout of the put option held by Novartis in is committed to continuous improvement in this area in line with respect of their minority stake in GSK Consumer Healthcare, which evolving regulatory requirements and best practice.
The second step was the announcement Succession in December to create a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture In 2018, we announced that Simon Dingemans would step down with Pfizer.
as Chief Financial Officer at this coming AGM after more than eight This latter transaction offers the opportunity to create substantial years with GSK.
I would like to thank him for his service to GSK.
value for shareholders through a new world-leading Consumer Succeeding Simon, is Iain Mackay, formerly Group Finance Director Healthcare business and has a significant bearing on the future for HSBC, who we welcomed to the Board in January 2019. shape of the Group.
This transaction would transform the scale This will be my last Annual Report as Chairman, following my of GSKs Consumer Healthcare business and therefore the Board decision at the start of the year to step down from the Board.
has stated that GSK intends to separate the Joint Venture within GSK is one of the worlds great businesses and it has been three years of the completion of the transaction.
This sets out a an enormous privilege to serve as its Chairman.
path for GSK to create two focused new companies, with separate listings and appropriate capital structures.
Each business will be Under Emmas leadership, GSK has made very good progress.
well positioned to deliver attractive returns to shareholders and With the announcement of the intended separation in a few years benefits to patients and consumers.
time, I believe this is the right moment to step down and allow a new Chair to oversee this process through to its conclusion.
The Board fully supports the proposed transaction with Pfizer and Our Senior Independent Director, Vindi Banga, is leading the is seeking approval from shareholders at a General Meeting which search to appoint my successor.
will be held immediately after this coming Annual General Meeting.
A separate Circular recommending the transaction will be made I would like to thank all of GSKs employees and partners for available to shareholders prior to the Annual General Meeting.
their hard work throughout 2018, and our shareholders and customers for their continued support.
