Chairmans introduction 2018 was a mixed year for our Company.
While we delivered strong financial results and record cash returns toshareholders, at the same time we were faced withsome material challenges In July we received a subpoena fromthe US Department ofJustice DOJ to produce documents and other records withrespect tocompliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and US money laundering statutes.
In 2017, the Board established aseparate committee to oversee theOSC investigation from Glencore plcs perspective.
Following receiptof the DOJ subpoena, thiscommittee was reconstituted as the Investigations Committee with an expanded remit to include management and oversight of theDOJ investigation so that it is entirely separate from the Groups executives, who have no decision making power concerning the investigation 2.
DRC Matters There were three significant matters which the Board had to address inconnection with the DRC: Dear shareholders Your Board has overseen several I am pleased to present our corporate headwinds for the Group last year, Katangas dispute with its DRC governance report for 2018. including: government-owned partner Gcamines which led to a On the financial side, although the 1.
Regulatory Investigations $5.6 billion recapitalisation prices of most commodities ended The investigation by the Ontario oftheoperating vehicle KCC the year significantly lower than at Securities Commission OSC andsettlement costs for the beginning, average prices were concerning Katanga, which began Katangatotalling$248million stronger than the prior year.
This, in 2017, concluded in December combined with volume growth in with the execution of a settlement The introduction of a new DRC copper and coal, was the main driver agreement by Katanga and Mining Code which provides behind an 8% increase in Adjusted certainof its current and former forsubstantially increased taxes, EBITDA of $15.8 billion which in officers and directors.
As part royalties and other onerous turnenabled us to make total cash ofthat settlement, Katanga provisions incontravention of returns including distributions, share madea voluntary payment of pre-existing stabilisation terms buy backs and share trust purchases $22million to the OSC.
Katanga Litigation processes with affiliates inexcess of $5.2 billion, while also acknowledged that ithad ofDan Gertler concerning netdebt increased to $14.7 billion, misstated its financial position and theeffect of US sanctions on mainlyto fund current year business results, failed to maintain adequate DanGertler and his affiliates acquisitions.
Duringthe last year we disclosure controls andadequate onpre-existing payment have grown the business through internal controls andfailed to obligations tothose entities delivery of major brownfield capital adequately describe certain risks projects and corporate transactions concerning corruption in the 3.
Rusal and En on both the buy-side and sell-side.
DRCand reliance on associates In April the US Government ofDan Gertler.
The Board was designated Rusal and En as Our world-class portfolio of assets disappointed in the conduct that SDNs.
Glencore had in place and marketing business stands us in led to this outcome and we have various contracts with Rusal for good stead for the uncertain market implemented significant remedial thepurchase of Aluminium and conditions in the year ahead.
It had also previously 96 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information signed a non-binding term sheet minister and official.
We do this with En regarding swapping external Board evaluation process, through our well-positioned portfolio shares in Rusal for an interest in which has just been completed, that includes copper, cobalt, nickel, En.
Glencore took various confirmed the effective operation vanadium and zinc commodities measures tomitigate any risks to ofthe Board whose size and that underpin energy and mobility its business as a result of the Rusal composition I believe allows it to transformation.
We believe this and EN designation, including function in an effective manner transition is a key part of the global determining not to proceed with forthe benefit of the Group and response to the increasing risks the EN exchange at that time allits stakeholders.
We have engaged with investor signatories Given the number and scale of We are also acutely aware of the ofthe Climate Action 100 initiative thesechallenges, the Board worked obvious interest in management on the additional steps we are taking closely with management in order succession.
In addition to previous tofurther our commitment to this toensure that suitable solutions changes to the leadership of our critical transition further details on could be found in order to deal with aluminium team, we have also this page 21.
As an early supporter of the the relevant issues appropriately year seen the appointments of new voluntary guidance on consistent inorderto achieve outcomes in the heads of the assets for copper, coal climate related financial disclosures long-term interests of the Group.
and ferroalloys and new heads of produced by theTaskforce on marketing in copper and ferroalloys.
During last year, a new 2018 UK Climate-related Financial Disclosures, Perhaps most significantly, Peter Corporate Governance Code was we continue todisclose the metrics, Freyberg has been appointed to published which is now in force.
targets and scenarios we use to anew position of responsibility for Most of the changes appear to us assess and manage relevant climateallof the Groups industrial mining tobe sensible and in particular the related risks and opportunities.
The Nomination Committee Board looks forward to a new and Wealso recognise theimportance of is appropriately extending its remit broader focus on the Groups values, continued reductions of greenhouse under the new Code with regard culture and purpose, and the greater gas emissions from our operations.
employee and other stakeholder Weare developing new, longer-term engagement that the Code calls for.
The HSEC Committee has continued targets based on policy and As a result of these changes and its considerable work on sustainability technological developments that theBoards greater focus on ethics matters.
Certain challenges remain support the goals of the Paris and compliance issues, we have at the forefront, particularly safety.
established a new permanent Last year the number of fatalities While our Group continues committee of the Board, the Ethics, atour operations rose to thirteen.
tofacelegacy challenges, your Compliance and Culture Committee.
While we do operate various difficult Boardbelieves that our people, assets inchallenging locations, this The new Code also requires greater ourindustrial assets and marketing isan unacceptable performance.
disclosure of a number of issues.
businesses are industry-leading Although the Committee has The2019 Annual Report will reflect andwe continue tohave confidence overseen various developments allof these changes.
inthe long-term prospects of inorder to improve our safety theGroup for the benefit of all The Board continues to strengthen performance, clearly these have ofitsstakeholders.
We again wish to thank notbeen sufficient and accordingly, Peter Grauer for his five-year service weare looking at new ways to achieve to the Board which ended last year.
Martin Gilbert has been appointed TheCommittee hasalready begun asthe Senior Independent Director, toengage withPeter Freyberg in bringing to that role his long order to support him in ensuring experience as both a leading career thatrealchange is achieved.
Anthony Hayward asset manager and his significant Considerable work has also Chairman non-executive director experience.
beenongoing in relation to our 28 February 2019 Inaddition, Gill Marcus has brought carbon strategy.
As one of the to the Board her long experience  resource asfirst a political activist and latterly companies, Glencore has a key as a senior South African government roleto play in enabling transition Glencore Annual Report 2018 97
