STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board gender Senior management Overall Group CHAIRMANS LETTER diversity gender diversity gender diversity 2 females, 29% 11 females, 17% 3,978 females, 14% Building a sustainable business 5 males, 71% 52 males, 83% 23,655 males, 86% As an organisation dedicated to equality, inclusion and diversity, The Board continues to recognise the importance of dividends Our customers Dear Shareholder, we have fairness enshrined in our pay practices and are toshareholders and accordingly has updated its dividend policy.
Go-Ahead takes care of over a billion passenger journeys a The provision of an effective, safe and efficient public transport determined to address the pay gap between men and women The Group will target a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 75% of year.
We are the largest bus operator in London, have a well system is crucial to the lives of the people and communities we working across our businesses.
The industry in which Go-Ahead netincome.
This better reflects the historic and expected future established, high quality regional bus business, and are the UKs serve.
As a leading provider of public transport services, we play operates has historically had a high proportion of male employees payout ratio and provides shareholders with more clarity and busiest train operator.
Our vision is a world where every journey avital role in getting people to their work, leisure, shopping and but, as reported in our Gender Pay Gap Report, the number of theGroup with the appropriate flexibility to continue to pay an istaken careof.
other destinations, and in connecting communities.
women in leadership and management roles in our UK bus attractive dividend.
As customer habits change and we strive to be at the forefront of workforce has increased from 13% to 15.4% over the past As well as being focused on delivering good shareholder returns, using technology to make transport ever easier, our innovation threeyears.
The number of women in our UK rail workforce including an attractive dividend, we believe in delivering value to a Your Board continues at pace.
Contactless has been further rolled out with hasincreased to 17.3%, which is higher than the industry wide wide range of stakeholders.
It is our strong belief that the delivery The Boards focus this year has been on ensuring that good increasing customer adoption, and we are trialling and developing average.
The Group is implementing an action plan to improve of shareholder value is totally consistent with, and dependent governance supports the delivery of our strategic objectives, various other initiatives to benefit our customers.
gender balance at all levels, including a pledge to attract 40% upon, delivering for our customers, our colleagues and our particularly in respect of ensuring that we address the needs of partners in an environmentally responsible and sustainable way.
oftrain driver applications from females by 2021. allour stakeholders.
The way in which we develop and monitor GTR strategy has improved through the Boards Strategy Day, routine Shifts in the socio-economic and technological landscapes are The environment In partnership with the industry, we embarked upon the reporting to the Board and a clear forward looking agenda which changing the way in which we all go about our lives.
This includes introduction of the largest timetable change in decades for rail We have a commitment to help cities tackle key issues around enables us to discuss key priorities.
An increased focus on changes in the way we work, the way we shop, and the consequent customers in May.
This was a complex and ambitious project congestion, air pollution and transport accessibility.
Our business innovation and building resilience has also enabled the Board to impact on our transportation needs and preferences.
These which will deliver new routes, greater connectivity and increased remain forward thinking with the Groups culture, reputation model is built on sustainability as we take cars off the road.
A changes create both challenges and opportunities.
At Go-Ahead, peak frequency through central London with the new automatic Euro6 bus, for example, produces less nitrogen dioxide emissions and stakeholder engagement now all an integral part of we have adopted a forward thinking approach, by adapting our train operation technology.
However, the implementation of Board deliberations.
than a Euro 6 car and can carry many more passengers to reduce business to these changes to deliver improvements that will thesechanges let down some of our customers and, alongside pollution.
We have been reducing our carbon footprint significantly, createlong term benefits for all our stakeholders.
Read more on page 58. ourindustry partners, we take collective responsibility for the with a reduction in emissions per vehicle mile by over 30% over the shortfall against expected service levels.
We deeply regret and past three years.
Our strategy We have continued to build upon last years Board development aresorry for the inconvenience caused to our customers.
We programme to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
During the Traffic congestion in the UK is 11% worse than it was three years We have a clear and defined strategy with three core pillars: to areworking hard in collaboration with our industry partners to year, we were delighted to welcome Harry Holt and Leanne Wood protect and grow our core businesses: to win new bus and rail ago and a recent analysis by INRIX put the cost of congestion in improve the situation for our customers and are co-operating fully as independent non-executive directors in October 2017.
Together the UK at over 37.7 billion in 2017 alone.
A fully loaded double contracts: and to develop for the future of transport.
We have with the Office of Rail and Road ORR in its independent inquiry.
they have brought with them a diversity of experience and beenembedding these strategic priorities into everything we do decker bus can take 75 cars off the road and we continue to We also remain committed to working with the Department for perspective which is already enhancing Board debate.
promote solutions to reduce congestion.
We also support the and measuring our performance on the progress we have made.
Transport DfT to resolve the long outstanding contract variations London Mayors Transport Strategy which seeks to increase Patrick Butcher will be leaving the Group towards the end of the Read more on page 8-18. which support the delivery of new services and will address theproportion of journeys made on foot, by cycling or by public year.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Patrick for the remaining contractual performance issues, as explained in transport where travel by bus and rail has a crucial role to play.
The purpose of our strategy is to deliver value to our stakeholders valuable contribution he has made to the Group and the strong moredetail on page 41. financial position that he has safeguarded.
The Board has begun and is supported by financial discipline, a rigorous approach to Go-Ahead is the largest operator of electric buses in the UK, cost efficiency and capital allocation, a strong balance sheet and aprocess to appoint a successor.
andthe operator of the UKs only all-electric bus garage.
We are Our people resilient profits in our bus division, which lay the foundation to our working on further environmental initiatives including how we can ability to pay an attractive dividend for our shareholders.
The Board would like to thank all of our 28,000 colleagues who make a positive impact in actioning the United Nations Sustainable The future work diligently every day in pursuit of our vision.
Without the Development Goals and incorporating the financial implications of Our business has a clear strategy which I am confident commitment, professionalism and dedication of our people, climate change in our reporting going forward, in compliance with positionsus to address the industry challenges and wewould not be able to provide the services we do.
Our vision the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
opportunitieswe face and for the Groups future development.
andstrategy are supported by a set of beliefs and attitudes which With the continued dedication of our colleagues and our ongoing Read more on page 27. welive and breathe.
focus on our customers, I believe that we are taking the necessary actions todeliver value to all our stakeholders whilst appropriately Read more on page 23.
Our investors balancingshort, medium and long term considerations.
At Go-Ahead, we are committed to taking care of our people, Despite the challenging market backdrop that we have seen providing good working conditions and fair pay, and supporting inourbus businesses this year, operational challenges in our them in their development.
We are proud to be the first GTRfranchise, and the expiry of the London Midland franchise providerofbus and rail services to become an Employer mid-waythrough the year, we have delivered results ahead of Andrew Allner, , gaining certification from the ourexpectations at the beginning of the year.
As a result, the Chairman Education andSkills Funding Agency ESFA which operates Board has recommended a final dividend of 71.91p which brings underthe Department for Education.
We are also pleased to have the full year dividend to 102.08p.
Subject to shareholder approval, 5 September 2018 been awarded two Investors in People Gold accreditations during this will be paid on 23 November 2018 to shareholders on the the year, an internationally recognised standard which defines register on 9 November 2018. what ittakes to lead, support and manage people effectively to promote a culture of high performance.
4 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
