Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our business as a housing provider is important, serving those who either cannot get onto the housing ladder or simply do not want to buy.
Forecasts of the growth needed to match demand is not being delivered and that is why we will continue to lobby government to support PRS in order to accelerate housing supply and enable us to deliver good quality homes for rent where people can put down roots.
The Board takes governance requirements very seriously and our aim is to take a leadership position where we can.
One of the critical areas of focus is health and safety.
The Company has clear plans to ensure that it continues to keep staff, customers and the general public safe.
Alongside delivering a customer service culture, keeping safe is one of the highest priorities within the business.
Tony Wray has decided to step down at the AGM in 2019, by which time he will have served over seven years on the Board as a Mark Clare Non-Executive Director.
I would like to thank Tony for his significant Chairman contribution to the success of the Company and wish him well for the future.
The Board is pleased to see the Company receive external recognition for the service it provides its customers as Asset I am pleased to report that 2018 has been a year of significant Manager of the Year at the RESI Awards.
The Board has a real progress in delivering the strategy, underpinned by a good financial expectation of continued progress which will deliver critical performance.
This puts Grainger in a strong position going forward competitive advantage going forward.
to deliver growth in the business and its returns.
Following on from the strong financial performance delivered, the Net rental income growth reflects acquisitions and strong like for Board is pleased to recommend an increase in the final dividend to like rental growth ahead of the market.
Sales from the regulated 3.52p per share, bringing the total for the year to 5.26p per share, portfolio and asset recycling initiatives have contributed to the strong up 8% on the prior year.
profit performance, supported by a continued focus on cost control.
This performance is testament to the hard work and dedication of Progress on growing our PRS business continues with the launch of every member of the Grainger team.
I thank everyone, on behalf of Argo Apartments in London and Clippers Quay in Manchester.
the next few years around 5,300 PRS units are expected to be Looking ahead, our objective remains the same: to deliver great added from our pipeline.
In parallel, our commitment to the efficient homes for rent and a great customer experience.
We will do this by management of our regulated portfolio and delivering good levels delivering our growth strategy, investing to improve our operational of service remains.
efficiency and by improving the performance of our portfolio wherever we can.
During the year the Board carried out a thorough review of the Companys strategy and were very satisfied with the progress made.
Mark Clare The key areas discussed included how growth of the PRS portfolio Chairman could be accelerated and how the investment in operational 13 November 2018 efficiency and enhancing customer experience will be delivered.
8 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
