84 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Introduction from the Chairman As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that theBoardoperates effectively and efficiently and that it continues to uphold a high standard of corporate governance for the long-term success of the Company.
Martin Scicluna Chairman Moreover, with our continued operational and financial Dear fellow shareholder discipline, during the year we secured 31.1 million of I am pleased to introduce this Corporate Governance report new lettings and we sold 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 and in which, among other things, we describe the Companys 30 Broadwick Street, W1 where our business plans were compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, complete and our future value adding opportunities were explain how the Board and its Committees have operated limited, monetising our development surpluses.
Our net during the past year, and describe how effective stewardship proceeds from these sales of 306 million were returned to is exercised over the Groups activities in the interests of shareholders, in addition to the 110 million returned earlier shareholders and other stakeholders.
As Chairman, I am inthe year following our sale of Rathbone Square late last responsible for ensuring that the Board operates effectively year and continued growth in the ordinary dividend.
These and efficiently and that it continues to uphold a high returns ensure that we maintain an efficient balance sheet, standard of corporate governance for the long-term success conservative leverage and significant acquisition capacity.
I believe GPEs culture is about treating people fairly, being professional, open and transparent, Each year, the Board formally revisits its level of oversight and that part of our role as the Board is to lead by example.
and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on The Boards oversight of our strategic priorities developments, finance, people and sustainability matters.
during the year and monitoring of risks With our culture of continuous improvement, looking back This year, the Board met twelve times including six on what went well and what we could do better on each unscheduled meetings to consider specific transactions of our developments is key.
In 2018, we reviewed the final and also undertook two property tours.
Our high level appraisal on our completed development at 30 Broadwick of involvement by executive and senior management in Street, W1 focusing on a number of aspects including the all our activities ensures that good governance extends timing in the cycle, design, procurement and how we met beyond the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind occupiers expectations in the handover process, as well inthe successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities asthe schemes financial performance.
overboth the short and long term.
Recognising our responsibility for oversight on health The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on andsafety, in addition to standing Board reports, between pages 1 to 13.
In our Annual Report last year we identified Board meetings Nick Sanderson as the Executive Director that our strategic priorities for 2017 18 were to: responsible for health and safety and Janine Cole, our Head of Sustainability, keep us informed of management of health undertake selective investment activity: and safety across our portfolio.
complete the current committed development Following our success in delivering against our priorities programme and prepare the pipeline: and during the year, our attention for this year will again be drive rental growth through capturing reversion.
focused on delivering attractive long-term shareholder See pages 90 and 91 for significant transactions approved returns, behaving responsibly to our stakeholders including bythe Board during the year to deliver against these priorities.
employees, occupiers, suppliers and the community, and appropriately managing risk.
With our clearly identified With the continued uncertainty in relation to the UKs exit initiatives, we will progress our current committed from the European Union and other geopolitical factors, developments and prepare the pipeline, drive rental growth the focus on our strategy and business model, and the through capturing reversion and pursue further recycling clear linkage back to our overarching strategic priorities and selective acquisition activity.
and operational parameters, have been a consistent and See our strategic priorities on pages 12 and 13 prevailing feature of our Board meetings.
As a result, we made only one acquisition in the year of Cityside House and Succession planning and Board changes Challenger House, Whitechapel, E1.
Given the significant level of existing development opportunities within our During 2017, we made six Senior Management Team portfolio, we are in the enviable position of not needing promotions.
Hugh Morgan, Martin Leighton and Stephen tobuy assets unless we feel they will be accretive.
Burrows were promoted to Director of Investment Management, Corporate Finance and Financial Reporting and Investor Relations respectively, taking on a broadened remit within each of their roles supporting theExecutive Committee.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 85 We also promoted James Pellatt to a new position of inMarch 2018 we structured the return of 306 million to Director of Workplace and Innovation to help ensure that shareholders by way of a B Share scheme to enable the our business remains forward looking and continues to returnto be treated as capital for most shareholders.
With their proven track Key to our good governance and to ensuring our continuous records, Helen Hare and Kirsty Davie were promoted to improvement is our receiving of feedback from not only our lead wider teams as Head of Project Management and shareholders but other stakeholders including our people, Head of Financial Analysis and Management Information occupiers and suppliers.
In September 2017, we considered respectively.
We also restructured our Investment the feedback from our second employee engagement Management and Asset Management teams to create questionnaire which reflected that our efforts to improve a Portfolio Management team to provide better focus both our flexible working offering had been well received.
on total returns from our assets and meeting occupier Whilst comfortable that we undertake gender pay checks needs, which involved the external recruitment of David as part of our annual remuneration process, we have also OSullivan to the new senior management role ofHead of considered what actions we should be taking to reduce our Occupier Services.
gender pay gap, and are wholly supportive of the Executive With Elizabeth Holden retiring from the Board at the 2017 Directors recommendation to sign up to the National AGM and in the knowledge of Jonathan Shorts proposed Equality Standard to identify what we can do internally retirement from the Board at the 2018 AGM, we are delighted to improve our approach to encouraging wider diversity.
to have appointed Alison Rose, Chief Executive at RBS To help to improve diversity in our industry as whole, we Commercial and Private Banking, as a Non-Executive Director have also committed to Pathways to Properties to offer in April 2018.
With her considerable financial and commercial work experience to individuals who may not otherwise have experience, Alison will also serve on the Audit, Nomination access to property as a career.
More about both of these and Remuneration Committees from 1 September 2018. initiatives can be found in our people section on pages 61.
Jonathan Short will be retiring from the Board at the 2018 GPE has traditionally held twice yearly meetings with AGM and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank occupiers at our buildings with members of senior Jonathan for his committed enthusiasm for GPE, strong management also meeting with our top twenty occupiers.
stewardship and significant Board contribution over the years.
This year the Board also received feedback from our inaugural external occupier survey and were pleased that 88% of Wendy Becker took over from Jonathan Short as Chairman occupiers were satisfied with their experience.
However, areas of the Remuneration Committee from the 2017 AGM.
where we can improve were also identified and the Board will Looking to the future, and in view of my having served receive an update on the actions taken in connection with almost ten years on the Board, I have proposed to the Board these during 2018 19. that I will retire at or before the 2019 AGM, once the Board This year, as part of our 2017 Modern Slavery Statement, has found my successor and there has been a suitable we committed to worker engagement audits on all of handover process.
Charles Philipps, as Senior Independent our developments over 5 million and random audits on Director, in close consultation with the Nomination wages paid to cleaners working at our buildings to ensure Committee, will lead the process to find my successor.
individuals working at our buildings are paid the London Living Wage.
Ongoing communication with shareholders I am pleased to be able to report that we received external andconsideration of other stakeholders recognition for our investor relations efforts with GPE being Communication with investors is given a high priority by ranked number 1 out of 108 companies in the European the Board.
During the year, 188 presentations were made real estate sector for our investor relations programme in toshareholders and potential shareholders by a combination the Institutional Investor survey with our Chief Executive, of the Executive Director team and senior management Director of Financial Reporting and Investor Relations and below the Board.
Independent feedback on presentations Finance Director ranked number 1,2 and 3 respectively.
by the Executive Directors to all major shareholders is We also received gold awards in relation to EPRAs 2017 Best provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis Practice Recommendations and Sustainability Best Practice at the scheduled Board meetings.
Recommendations and a green five star rating in relation Following consultation in the year ended 31 March 2017 to GRESB.
Finally, I am very proud to be able to report with our top shareholders, together owning more than that, for the second year running, we were ranked first in 40%, on both our proposals in relation to our new threethe property sector in Management Todays Britains Most year Remuneration Policy, outlined in more detail on pages Admired Companies.
We were also ranked fifth in the 124 to 134, and retaining Jonathan Short on the Board for overall awards, the Companys highest ever position and a further year with a view to his retiring at the 2018 AGM, the only property company in the top ten, which I think I am pleased to report that 97% and 95% of shareholders isa testament to the abilities and efforts of each and every voted in favour of our Remuneration Policy and the one of our team.
reappointment of Jonathan Short respectively.
Martin Scicluna Chairman Following feedback from some of our retail shareholders on 23 May 2018 the payment of the 110 million special dividend in May 2017 that they would prefer to receive any further non-ordinary dividend monies as a capital rather than income return, Governance 86 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Introduction from the Chairman continued The Boards attendance in 2017 18 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Board Committee Committee Committee scheduled unscheduled 4 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 1 1 6 meetings 6 meetings See pages 98 to 105 See pages 92 to 97 See pages 108 to 110 Chairman 2 Martin Scicluna 2 2 3 3 Executive Directors 3 Toby Courtauld 3 Nick Sanderson Non-Executive Directors 4 Wendy Becker 4 Nick Hampton 5 Elizabeth Holden 2 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 3 3 4 Richard Mully 6 Charles Philipps 4 Jonathan Short Meetings attended Part attendance at meetings 1.
There were six scheduled Board meetings in 2018.
There were six unscheduled Board meetings held at short notice during the year see Board activities on pages 88 and 89.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Remuneration or Audit Committees, in his role as Chairman of the Board, he is invited, where appropriate, to attend key meetings of the Remuneration Committee in relation to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half-year and year-end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of the Remuneration and Audit Committees the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Nomination or Remuneration Committees, however, they are invited to attend for parts of or all of certain Committee meetings where appropriate.
Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton and Jonathan Short were unable to attend one of the unscheduled Board Meetings due to prior commitments, however, provided their thoughts to the Chairman and Toby Courtauld in advance of the meeting.
Whilst Richard Mully attended all scheduled and unscheduled Board meetings, he was unable to attend a number of Committee meetings due to prior commitments, however, he provided his thoughts to the respective Chairs in advance of these meetings.
Elizabeth Holden retired from the Board at the 2017 AGM and, therefore, the number of meetings in parentheses is the number of meetings she could have attended in the year.
Charles Philipps was not a member of the Remuneration Committee in the year ended 31 March 2018.
