STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement Underlying trading improved in the second half and we have confidence in the long-term prospects of the business.
Overview People Greene King is a strong business with an excellent track record of delivery We have 39,000 talented and hard-working team members who are and resilience in tough market conditions.
This has been a challenging responsible for the continued success of the business.
Under the leadership financial year with pressures on both revenue and margins as consumer of our strong management team, they responded well to the challenges we confidence remains fragile and a number of industry-specific input costs are experiencing in the market place and, supported by the 10m investment continue to rise ahead of headline inflation.
Moreover, adverse weather in into value, service and quality, helped to deliver an improvement in underlying the second half and stronger competition across the year have given us trading in the second half of the year.
I should like to record our thanks additional challenges.
I am pleased that the investments we made in the fortheir effort and commitment.
customer offer and other actions taken in the second half are starting to pay off and that underlying trading is improving.
We are fully focused on Board changes delivering our aim of building the best pub and beer company in Britain.
In February this year, Richard Smothers joined the board of Greene King as chief financial officer in succession to Kirk Davis.
Richard has 20 years Performance ofexperience at blue-chip retail and consumer-focused companies in senior Group revenue was down 1.8% to 2,176.7m and group operating profit financial roles.
He is a strong addition to both the board and executive 1,2 before tax and exceptional and non-underlying items was down 9.3% to team.
I should like to record the boards thanks to Kirk for his contribution 373.1m.
Group profit before tax rose by 6.8% to 197.5m while group to Greene King, particularly during the integration of Spirit.
1,2 profit before tax and exceptional and non-underlying items was down 1,2 11.2% to 243.0m.
Adjusted earnings per share was down 11.4% to 62.7p.
Looking ahead We are pleased with the most recent trading performance although we Dividend are aware that we have benefited from better weather and sporting events.
While trading this year was below our initial expectations, the board has Building pub brands that customers admire remains central to our strategy recommended a final dividend of 24.4p, reflecting our confidence in the and we are focused on providing the customer with offers that deliver long-term prospects of the business.
This takes the total dividend for the compelling value, service and quality.
We shall maintain our discipline in year to 33.2p, in line with last year.
We have a long-term track record of investing in both our estate and our people to generate long-term value, covering our debt amortisation, core capital expenditure and dividend while continuing to manage our capital structure prudently.
Our aim is that from our free cash flow and the board continues to target a dividend Greene King will emerge from the current challenging environment stronger covered approximately two times by earnings.
than ever and I look forward to reporting on our progress next year.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items asdetailed in note 5 of the financial statements.
The directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that areconsidered critical to aid the understanding of the groups performance.
APMs areexplained on page 128 of this annual report.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 3 FOCUS AREAS BEST FOR CUSTOMERS BEST FOR TEAM BEST FOR COMMUNITIES 4 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018
