Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Chairmans Statement appropriate assumptions in relation to the continued good management of the assets, lease extensions and other factors.
The Total Shareholder Return for the year was 8.3 per cent.
and since listing has been 71.5 per cent.. Acquisitions 2018 has been another active investment year for us.
We completed the acquisition of interests in 3 new wind farms and further increased our interest in the Clyde wind farm.
As a result, we invested a total of 364.4 million, with our net generating capacity increasing from 694MW to 836MW, and increased the number of sellers from whom we have acquired wind farms to 12, showing the breadth of our relationships.
I am pleased to present the Annual Report of Greencoat UK Wind PLC for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In addition, in October we announced that we had committed to acquire 75 per cent.
of the Tom nan Performance Clach wind farm once it is constructed, which is During the year, portfolio generation was 6 per cent.
This wind farm is being below budget at 2,003GWh.
Although wind speed was built under the Governments CFD regime, which will below the long term mean, the Group benefitted from remove market electricity price risk in the first 15 years robust wholesale power prices, with net cash of life.
Consequently, it will have a lower expected generated by the Group and wind farm SPVs being on return, reecting this lower risk.
Dividends paid in the year totalled 72.3 million, thus dividend cover was 1.6x.
As part of the same strategy, we also announced in December that we have agreed to acquire the Douglas By the end of 2018, the portfolio provides sufficient West wind farm which is scheduled to come into electricity to power over 750,000 homes and reduces operation in July 2021.
As Douglas West is being carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 1 million constructed without Government support, it will be tonnes per annum by displacing thermal generation.
fully subject to market electricity prices and consequently has an enhanced expected return, Dividends and Returns reecting this higher risk.
Declared dividends for the year total 6.76 pence per On 1 February 2019, we announced a 452 million share, with the fourth and final quarterly dividend of investment in the Stronelairg and Dunmaglass wind 1.69 pence per share to be paid on 28 February 2019. farms with SSE, with completion occurring at the end With our continuing strong cashow and robust of March 2019.
These 2 new investments will increase dividend cover we can condently target a dividend of our investments to 34 operating UK wind farms with a 6.94 pence per share with respect to 2019, again net generating capacity of 950MW.
increased in line with Decembers RPI.
Equity Issuance NAV per share increased from 109.6 pence per share ex dividend on 31 December 2017 to 121.4 pence In order to finance our continuing growth and pursue per share ex dividend on 31 December 2018, an value creating opportunities, we issued 102 million increase of 11.8 pence 10.8 per cent.
new shares in May 2018 at a price of 117 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of 119 million in an The chart on page 18 compares NAV per share with oversubscribed share placing.
RPI, showing how, in addition to our policy of increasing the dividend by RPI, we have been meeting On 27 February 2019, we issued an additional our objective of real capital preservation since listing.
103 million new shares at a price of 127 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of 131 million in an At the end of 2018, we employed a leading technical oversubscribed share placing.
consultancy rm to advise us on the expected life of our assets.
Their report was provided to the Board in Although neither placings were pre-emptive, a strong January 2019 and, as a result, we have increased our preference was given to existing shareholders when asset life assumption from 25 to 30 years, having made allocating shares.
02 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Chairmans Statement continued Gearing During 2018 we made investments and commitments totalling over 500 million, of which approximately In November we reported that we had arranged 70 per cent.
are in ROC accredited wind farms.
further long term xed rate borrowing such that Although we are starting to see attractive CFD and 400 million of our borrowings are now xed rate with subsidy free assets, we expect that the majority of maturities stretching through to November 2026 at an future investments will continue to be made from the average interest cost of 3.08 per cent.
approximately 50 billion pool of onshore and offshore During the year the minimum and average gearing was UK wind farms accredited under the ROC regime.
of GAV respectively, and Stronelairg and Dunmaglass investments are good we ended the year with 480 million of total external examples of that.
The executive management continues to maintain a After the completion of the investment in the disciplined acquisition strategy: if a potential Stronelairg and Dunmaglass wind farms, gearing will investment is not in line with the Companys be 794 million 34 per cent.
of GAV at an average investment objectives, or is otherwise not in the interest cost of 2.76 per cent.
interests of shareholders, then we will not invest.
Strategy and Outlook With our strong cashow and robust dividend cover, In 2013, when the Company first listed, 7 per cent of coupled with our disciplined approach, we are the UKs electricity demand was supplied by wind confident in our ability to continue to meet the energy.
By 2018, this gure has increased to 17 per objectives of dividend growth in line with RPI and cent.
Wind continues to be the most mature and widely capital preservation in real terms.
deployed renewable energy technology in the UK.
The Board and Governance Our financial strategy has remained unchanged over The search rm Heidrick & Struggles has been the last 6 years: to provide shareholders with an annual engaged to assist the Board in relation to succession dividend that increases in line with RPI ination while planning to secure the right skills and experience while preserving the capital value of the investment portfolio also seeking to increase diversity on the Board.
This is achieved through a focused search is now well advanced and we are hoping to be strategy of investing only in wind farms and only in the able to announce such a new appointment by the time UK.
Our intention remains to adhere strictly to this of our forthcoming AGM.
The Companys governance is further described on Growth by acquisition brings benets to shareholders as: pages 31 to 34. a larger scale brings economies and enables better Annual General Meeting terms to be obtained from suppliers: Our AGM will take place at 2.00 pm on Friday 26 April equity placings following acquisitions provide 2019 at the ofce of the Investment Manager.
Details additional opportunity for shareholders to increase of the formal business of the meeting are set out in a their investment in the Company.
Although not preseparate circular which is sent to shareholders with the emptive, a strong preference is given to existing Annual Report.
We look forward to meeting with shareholders when allocating shares in our equity shareholders on that occasion.
placings: these equity placings are priced at a premium to NAV per share thus enhancing overall NAV per share for existing shareholders: and equity placings increase the liquidity of shares in the Tim Ingram market.
During 2018 on average 7.0 million of the Chairman Companys shares were traded weekly on the 27 February 2019 London Stock Exchange.
