Chairmans statement Greggs carries out its business in a responsible manner, delivering sustainable long-term growth In 2018 Greggs once again demonstrated its resilience and Overview Over the year as a whole Greggs performed robustly capacity for growth, delivering record profits in a challenging in 2018.
Sales were well ahead of last year, profit was retail environment, heavily impacted by extreme weather above our expectations and the Company ended the conditions.
Alongside the robust trading performance, we year with a healthy cash balance.
This was achieved continued to invest in our internal supply chain and systems, in a very uncertain economic environment with laying a strong foundation for further growth and efficiency.
significant cost pressures and challenging trading conditions, whilst managing a major reorganisation I am proud that Greggs carries out its business in a responsible and change programme in the internal supply chain.
Trading conditions in the first half of the year were manner, aiming to deliver sustainable long-term growth for the negatively affected by extremes of weather.
In the benefit of all stakeholders.
second half, our performance picked up and we ended the year very strongly.
Our people and values The Board recognises that 2018 was a year of significant change for many of Greggs employees.
We oversaw and engaged regularly with the exhaustive planning that went into the reorganisation of our manufacturing operations, designed to improve competitiveness and support further growth in the number of shops.
We tested the approach taken by management against our values and were pleased that the changes are being made without a need for compulsory redundancies.
Significant progress was also made on the multi-year project to enhance the systems that support our growing business.
I would like to record my personal admiration and the thanks of the Board to our 23,000 colleagues who have coped with the many changes over the course of the year and delivered another great outcome for the Company and its shareholders.
Greggs prides itself on conducting its business in a responsible manner and the Board supports and challenges its agenda in this respect.
We continued to support the work of the Greggs Foundation, th which celebrated the opening of its 500 primary school Breakfast Club in 2018, and we are building on our environmental management programme with a target to reduce the use of single-use plastic across our operations in the year ahead.
Favourite Greggs snack: It has to be the Vegan Sausage Roll.
G Gr re eg gg gs p s pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 8 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Take a look at our strategy to see how it is making an impact.
Read Our strategy on page 10.
Greggs success depends on its ability to attract Companys ongoing change programme and the and engage a talented and diverse workforce that uncertainties surrounding the UKs exit from the 35.7p 10.5% dividend understands the needs of its customers.
increase sets a strong example on gender balance and has encouraged the business in its journey to create We also spent time during the year understanding a more inclusive workplace.
Our Chief Executive, managements approach to ensuring that the culture Roger Whiteside, has shown great personal within Greggs remains one that manages risks well leadership in this regard and I was delighted that as the business grows further.
23,000 colleagues this was recognised in the New Year Honours list, with Roger being awarded the Order of the British Further details of the Boards work are included Empire for services to Women and Equality.
in the governance and committee sections of this annual report.
The Board Greggs has enjoyed a period of stability on the Dividend Board and this has been helpful in ensuring continuity Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary and consistency.
We are, nevertheless, planning dividend that is two times covered by earnings, with succession for Board Directors and have embarked further surplus cash being returned to shareholders on the recruitment of an Audit Committee Chair to as appropriate.
Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, succeed Allison Kirkby who will not be offering herself outlines the expected application of the distribution for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM, policy in more detail in the financial review.
We currently following her appointment to the Board of BT Group.
expect to be in a position to declare a special dividend Allison has proved to be a warm and enthusiastic at the time of our interim results in July.
colleague over her six years on the Board, and has displayed passion and professionalism in equal In line with its progressive ordinary dividend policy, measure.
We thank Allison for her contribution the Board intends to recommend at the AGM a final and wish her well in her future career.
dividend of 25.0 pence per share 2017: 22.0 pence, giving a total ordinary dividend for the year of In 2018 we continued to spend a significant amount 35.7 pence 2017: 32.3 pence, an increase of time overseeing the major investments being made of 10.5 per cent.
in our internal supply chain and the associated change management programme.
It was appropriate therefore Looking ahead that the Board held one of its meetings at our Leeds It is hard to report on the performance of Greggs bakery, affording an opportunity for us to see for without reference to the vegan-friendly sausage ourselves the investments being made to create roll, launched in early 2019 to an enthusiastic a Centre of Excellence for small cakes, and also to reception from our customers.
The extraordinary review our retail operations in the Leeds area.
Both level of social and general media coverage that visits allowed the Directors to hear directly from staff followed has attracted additional visits to our shops, involved in the programme of organisational change offering a great opportunity to showcase the many that supports our growth plans.
improvements that have been made to our shops and product offering in recent years.
Outside of such formal arrangements, Directors continue to visit different areas of the business and At a time of unprecedented political and economic experience it through the eyes of our colleagues, uncertainty for the food industry and for the UK, customers and other stakeholders.
This helps to ensure Greggs continues to demonstrate its resilience.
that Non-Executive Directors contributions to Board Whilst we cannot be immune to the impact that this discussions are well informed, supporting open and uncertainty may have on the economy as a whole, constructive dialogue with the management team and we are in a strong financial position and are investing helping them to meet the s172 obligations to take into for further growth and increased competitiveness in account the broader stakeholder population.
Risk management continues to be an important area of Ian Durant focus for the Board, particularly in light of heightened Chairman awareness of the risks around allergens, the 7 March 2019 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
