02 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS | CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 2018 WAS A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR IN WHICH WE CONTINUED TO DELIVER A VERY STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
Lee Feldman 2018 was a momentous year for the is an enormous opportunity.
In July, the Group Non-executive Chairman Group, with the acquisition of the entered into a joint-venture with MGM Resorts 5 March 2019 Ladbrokes Coral Group on 28 March to operate online sports-betting and gaming making the enlarged GVC Group the and retail sport-betting operations in the US, worlds largest online-led sports-betting as and when states regulate.
The combination and gaming company.
of brands, technology and market access of the two parent companies provide the The acquisition has greatly strengthened opportunity to build a world-class operation the Group through the addition of a strong in the US.
portfolio of brands in well-established markets, leading marketing expertise and Integration update the addition of some very talented people.
Combined with the existing GVC brands and The acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral operational expertise that has already proved business completed on 28th March 2018 and so successful, and supported by our leading the integration of that business is already well proprietary technology stack, the enlarged progressed.
We expect to deliver significant group is very well placed to continue to grow benets from integrating the Ladbrokes Coral at market leading rates.
The repeal of the businesses: we have announced 130m Professional and Amateur Sports Protection cost synergies and we will also benefit Act PASPA legislation in the US in May, from the implementation of best-of-both effectively enabling each state to legislate operational practices.
The initial phase of the and regulate sports-betting for the first time, integration, primarily the implementation of new management and employee structures, has gone well, and it is very pleasing to see the culture of the Ladbrokes Coral businesses t-in very well with that of the existing GVC business.
A key part of the integration is technology, and the migration of the Ladbrokes Coral UK online businesses onto the GVC technology platform.
It was pleasing to announce in February that we have reached an agreement with Playtech PLC that will enable us greater exibility and support for this transition.
Financial performance The performance of the Group in 2018 was very strong.
Proforma NGR was 9% ahead on a proforma basis, and underlying proforma EBITDA before separately disclosed items was 13% ahead.
Growth in Online was particularly strong, with NGR up 19% and underlying EBITDA also up 19%.
This growth was delivered across all our major geographies and brands, with double digit growth NGR in the UK, Germany, Australia, Italy, and Brazil and also in our global partypoker brand.
Group proforma underlying operating profit was 19% ahead and we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 16p, taking the total 2018 dividend to 32p, an increase of 7% on 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 03 NGR m Annual growth Corporate activity Non-executive Director Stephen Morana taking on that role.
In September, Pierre Other corporate activity by the Group 3,571.4 Bouchut joined the board as an Independent included the acquisition in May of 51% of Non-executive Director and took the role Crystalbet, one of the Georgias leading online of Audit Committee Chairman.
Pierre has a sports-betting and gaming operators, with wealth of experience in senior finance and 9% an option to buy the remaining 49% in 2021. operational roles at a number of multinational The performance of the Crystalbet business businesses including CFO at Delhaize 2017: 3,288.1 post acquisition has been outstanding, and and Carrefour.
He is currently a Nondemonstrates the expertise the Group has in executive Director and chairman of the audit identifying acquisitions that are signicantly committee at Hammerson plc and Firmenich value-enhancing.
In December we announced the announced the acquisition of Neds, an resignation of Karl Diacono as Non-executive online sports-betting operator in Australia.
Director after 10 years serving in that role.
This acquisition provides further scale to I would like to thank Karl and Will for our existing fast-growing Ladbrokes Australia their service and contribution over their business in what is a core market for period of board membership.
Underlying EBITDA m both been with us through an exciting corporate journey.
Annual growth Responsible Gambling Finally, Chief Financial officer Paul Bowtell As an industry leader in the markets in which stepped down from his role on 5 March 2019 we operate, our commitment to responsible following seven years as CFO of first Gala gambling and social responsibility is of Coral, then Ladbrokes Coral plc and then paramount importance.
Paul has left in order to take up a role a number of responsible gambling research with Alchemy Partners, the private equity and education initiatives, backed by a major rm.
Paul is replaced as Chief Financial increase in the level of investment in this area 755.3 officer by Rob Wood.
Rob has been with the to twice the contribution called for by the group for 7 years and was the CFO of the sectors responsible gambling organisations.
Ladbrokes Coral UK Retail business having We have also announced a multi-million pound 13% originally joined Coral Retail as the Business investment into a new community programme Development and Strategy Director.
that will deliver grants to local good causes 2017: 666.5 who promote grassroots sports and tackle Rob is a great addition to the Board and his mens health issues, and a three-year appointment demonstrates the strong bench partnership with SportsAid, which will of talent within GVC.
I would like to thank deliver funding for 50 aspiring Olympians Paul for his invaluable contribution over the across the UK.
years to Gala Coral, Ladbrokes Coral and GVC.
I wish him well with his new role.
In the UK, we whole-heartedly support the decision by the Remote Gaming Association 2018 was a transformational year for of online operators to restrict all TV betting the Group, which continued to deliver advertising around live-sport in 2019.
We will a very strong financial performance.
Operating profit m continue to work closely with the Gambling The combination of our brands, technology, Commission in the UK and support their marketing capability and people, alongside Annual growth efforts to provide a safe environment for our scale, geographic diversication and customers to enjoy their gambling experience.
M&A expertise leaves the Group in a very good position to deliver shareholder value.
Board GVC will post its 2018 Annual Report to As the business evolves, becoming shareholders in the week commencing signicantly larger and more geographically 29 April 2019 and will be uploaded on our diversied, it has been important to ensure website from that date.
The AGM will be held 610.1 that the board composition reects this.
In June, Virginia McDowell joined the board as an Independent Non-executive Director.
Lee Feldman Virginia brings a wealth of industry experience, 19% Non-executive Chairman having worked in the US gaming market 5 March 2019 for 35 years, most recently as the CEO 2017: 514.1 ofNASDAQ listed Isle of Capri Casinos.
Also in June, Will Whitehorn stepped down assenior Non-executive Director, with existing The Groups proforma results are unaudited and presented as if the current Group, post the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, had existed since 1 January 2017.
As such, it excludes the results of the Turkish business which was discontinued during 2017 and the 360 shops that the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc was required to divest on the merger of Ladbrokes PLC and the Coral Group.
The results of Crystalbet and Neds are included from the dates of acquisition 11 April 2018 and 28 November 2018 respectively and the results of Kalixa are excluded from the date of disposal 31 May 2017.
