Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Our culture enables autonomous and agiledecision making, constructive challenge, innovative diversity ofthought andopen collaboration to thrive.
Introduction from Paul Walker It is pleasing to report that we have during 2017 18 although in April 2017, Kevin I am pleased to be presenting Halmas successfully delivered in all of these areas, Thompson announced his intention to retire Corporate Governance Report for 2018 in what details of which are set out in the Strategic during 2018.
Kevin has made a remarkable has been another strong year for the Group.
Report on pages 1 to 65. contribution to Halma since joining the This Report aims to provide stakeholders business over 30 years ago and I would like with an understanding of the governance I am very proud of Halmas achievements and to personally thank him and wish him a happy framework within which Halma and its sustainable growth, recognised by our entry and healthy retirement.
I am delighted that businesses operate.
The Board recognises into the FTSE 100 in December 2017 which the Board decided to appoint Marc Ronchetti the importance of good governance and was a tremendous milestone.
I am equally as Kevins successor as from 1 July 2018.
Marc throughout the year ended 31 March 2018, proud of how we have maintained our enviable brings a wealth of operational, technical and theCompany has complied with the provisions culture of openness, transparency and support financial experience to the Board and, having set out in the UK Corporate Governance throughout the organisation.
had the benefit of working with him since he Code2016 the Code.
joined Halma in August 2016, I am confident Our culture enables autonomous and agile that he will make a significant contribution.
In last years Report, I outlined four key decision making, constructive challenge, Boardpriorities: innovative diversity of thought and open In December 2017, the Board agreed some collaboration to thrive.
I maintain that it changes to the Executive Board structure by delivering a robust performance across is essential that the Board and executive consolidating the four Sector Chief Executive each sector during a time of political and management act in a constructive, nonSCE roles into two.
Paul Simmons now economic uncertainty: political and respectful manner, exhibiting the covers the Process Safety and Infrastructure continuing to build our talent: tone that we .
Safety sectors and Adam Meyers covers the encouraging businesses to innovate, I am pleased that this is the case at all Medical and Environmental & Analysis sectors.
collaborate and seek out opportunities to levelswithin Halma.
These changes provide greater visibility and keep pace with digital developments: and helps to align the management team with seeking to acquire businesses which Leadership changes the objectives of our 4.0 growth strategy, complement our strategy and portfolio, In recent years, there have been a number byfacilitating effective communication innew or existing markets that can deliver of changes to the membership and andagile decision making.
responsibilities of Board and Executive Board members to re-shape the leadership to support our evolving growth strategy.
There have been no changes to the Board 66 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Biographies for the Board and Executive How the Board supported strategy Board members are set out on pages 6870.
Halmas clear and focused strategy over many years has led to a strong financial performance and consistent dividend growth.
The Board has supported the evolution of Governance engagement ourstrategy over the past year which is now articulated in the Halma 4.0 growth strategy.
As a strong supporter of good governance, the Company provided a response to the Strategic The Boards What we achieved FRCs consultation on the revised Corporate Growth Enablers governance role in 2018 Governance Code, which it intends will apply for our accounting period beginning on M&A The Board has a clear strategy which Acquired: Cardios and 1 April 2019.
As we stated in our response, includes a significant growth element CasMed in August 2017: we are very supportive of the revised Code being delivered through M&A.
Key Mini-Cam and Setco in but consider that some of the measures are resources, both in terms of people and November 2017: and Argus overly prescriptive and could increase the finances, are made available to ensure Sterling in December 2017: reporting burden and introduce complexity, that we can deliver this strategy.
The We further strengthened without achieving the desired effect.
A copy M&A pipeline is regularly reviewed and the M&A team and changed of the Companys full response is available discussed by the Board and all material the reporting lines to reflect atwww.
acquisitions are subject to its approval.
therevised SCE structure: Post-acquisition value creation Board priorities strategies are under regular review.
Our continuous focus on talent and culture has International The Board has formally adopted In addition to expanding been a critical foundation for Halma to launch Expansion matters reserved for its decision our business footprint into the Convergence and Edge strands to its Core anda schedule of matters that it Brazil and Italy, we continued growth strategy.
While talent remains a priority, delegates to executive management.
to grow our business in the other key priorities for 2018 19 are to: This governance structure ensures India and China, where our that major changes, financial hubs provide an efficient focus on communicating and executing commitments or new business route to penetrating these the Halma 4.0 growth strategy delivering developments are considered by growing markets, with our strong organic and acquisition growth and the Board, while permitting local existing, or adapted for developing our thinking in the areas of andsector autonomy to operate local-market, products.
Convergence and Edge: andgrow our businesses.
support our senior management by providing them with tools and insight Talent & Culture The Board recognises the importance We continued to invest in to drive innovation and collaboration to of talent and culture in driving not only our leadership development, monetise our technology and know-how Halmas growth but also the behaviour putting over 60 senior leaders in the digital and big data space: that we expect from our people across through our Innovating seek new acquisition and or the Group.
In September 2016, the the Organisation ITO .
Board recognised the importance programme.
of leading talent from the top and In November 2017, we This Report, along with the Committee promoted Jennifer Ward to the Board.
launched HalmaHub Reports, describes how the Board has Talent discussions are a key feature at a communication and applied the main and supporting principles each Nomination Committee meeting.
collaboration platform of the Code.
I trust that you will find it useful forcompanies and central in understanding Halmas governance functions to share knowledge structure and how it is fit to support both our and ideas.
4.0 growth strategy and our transformative Purpose of growing a safer, cleaner, Finance & Risk The Board have established a clear We refreshed our healthierfuture for everyone, every day.
and robust framework to control approachand appetite financial investment, oversee financial to risk, considering both performance and to managerisks top-down and .
up risks and updated the Paul Walker delegatedauthorities.
Chairman Digital Growth The Board are aware of the changing Our Leadership conference 12 June 2018 Engines landscape and the risks and gave managing directors the opportunities that will arise as the tools to expand their thinking digital revolution, and inherent dataand develop their business related responsibilities, continue using Convergence and toproliferate.
Strategic The Board recognised the need for our The development of our Communications companies to be more strategic in their massive transformative communications with stakeholders.
purpose to grow a safer, A key focus has been on adequately cleaner, healthier future for resourcing our central team to support everyone, every day has our businesses in developing marketcreated the foundation from leading positions by connecting which all our businesses can with customers through their brand, build their communications marketing, product positioning and strategy, tailored to the needs theeffective use of all media channels.
of their customers and the local markets.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 67
