Chairmans Statement This will be my last Chairmans statement as I will be standing FY18 performance down at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting having been Against the background of a challenging retail environment, we have privileged to serve Halfords for nine wonderful years.
achieved good sales growth, introduced new in-store services and continued to improve our product ranges, colleague training and Halfords is a much-changed business from that at the start of the service delivery.
We also grew service-related retail sales by 14%.
decade, as is the retail landscape.
The digital revolution, which now encompasses every aspect of our lives, has transformed the way Underlying Profit Before Tax was down some 4m but this was in we do business and we at Halfords have embraced that change.
the context of an additional c. 25m year-on-year cost of imported However, we have not lost sight of Halfords key differentiator: our goods as a result of the weaker pound against the US dollar.
actions to mitigate the impact of this headwind, both this and last year, have worked well and, at current exchange rates, there is I am so proud of the progress we have made to lift our service ethic, virtually no further foreign exchange headwind to come.
customer centricity and services focus.
To this end, and on behalf of my Board colleagues, I would like to thank each and every colleague Whilst earnings in the year were naturally adversely impacted by throughout the Group for making this a reality.
currency and other cost headwinds, particularly from increased labour costs, the underlying business performance was positive and This year we have seen a change in executive leadership, with cash flow was robust.
our CEO Jill McDonald leaving the business in September 2017 and Jonny Mason taking over as interim CEO prior to the arrival in Accordingly, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 12.03 January 2018 of Graham Stapleton, our new CEO.
Graham is an pence per share, payable on 31 August 2018, which would result in a outstanding business leader with credentials spanning across the dividend per share for the year of 18.03p, up 3.0% year-on-year and retail, digital and services spaces.
He is an ideal fit for Halfords and I consistent with our policy of paying an increasing ordinary dividend.
am confident that he will successfully lead Halfords through its next Gearing remains within our debt target.
I would like to thank Jill for her significant contribution to Halfords, some of which I have summarised below.
Jonny Mason will also be leaving us in a few months and I would also like to thank him for the positive impact he has made over the last three years.
We wish both Jill and Jonny all the best for the future.
04 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Summary of strategic progress over recent years The year ahead In the report that follows, we have set out our progress against the With changes to the executive management team and the Board, objectives and milestones in our Moving up a Gear strategy that was Halfords is entering a new phase.
We have a talented group of set out in November 2015. engaged colleagues who remain focused on growing the business and driving sustainable long-term growth.
I am confident that The strategy was investment led with a focus on continued colleague Halfords will continue to prosper in the coming years under the development, infrastructure to drive the business forward digitally capable leadership of Graham and his wider team.
and to better understand and serve our customers.
Lastly, I welcome to Halfords my successor, Keith Williams, who Some of the highlights, which illustrate the positive impact of brings a wealth of experience.
I trust that Keith will enjoy working, as investments we have made, are: much as I have, with such a talented and engaged Board and such wonderful colleagues throughout the Group.
59% of Retail transactions can now be matched to customers up from 3% in 2015 : Dennis Millard Service-related Retail sales up 46%: Chairman 22 May 2018 Group online sales up 55%: over 70% of Retail colleagues trained to Gear 2 level, up from 46% three years ago: Colleague turnover much improved from three years ago: and 9th in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies To Work For from 18th in 2015.
The business cannot stand still and the time for refreshing our strategy is upon us.
The timing of Graham joining as CEO is thus opportune and he and his team are currently working with the Board to develop the next phase of strategic development to set Halfords on a path to profitable growth.
The intention is to set this out to shareholders in September.
com 05 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
