50 Chairmans statement WE ENCOURAGE AN OPEN AND COMMUNICATIVE CULTURE The Board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Andrew Martin Chairman, Hays plc Although I only took on the role of Chairman in July, Dear Shareholder initially on an interim basis, I did want to make a few I am writing to you for the first time as Chairman, comments on corporate governance and the business.
following the sad and untimely passing of Alan Thomson in July 2018.
I am pleased to present to you the Governance section of the 2018 Annual Report and to confirm that Hays I would like to take a moment to say a few words about has complied in full with the principles set out in the UK Alan.
He was a truly wonderful man, was universally liked Corporate Governance Code.
The past year has also been and respected across our business, and a most loyal and a year of scrutiny, from the Government and the wider effective Chairman.
He was a Non-Executive Director of public.
The Board has paid close attention to the various Hays for almost eight years and Chairman for most of that, developments, including the FRCs amendments to the and his contribution to the success of the business we Code.
We are reviewing the changes to ensure that over have today is considerable.
He had a wit and charm about time we implement them effectively, as appropriate.
him that made sharing the Boardroom, and longer periods as our Board schedule required, an absolute pleasure.
The Board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate governance, which provides the framework One of the many reasons Alan was recruited to the Board and foundation for driving appropriate and proper was that he was very much a people person, and in behaviours across the business, helps enhance a business like Hays, this means a great deal.
It is a muchperformance and provides the basis for long-term used term, but we had the good fortune to see first-hand, sustainable growth.
when the Board made visits across the UK and overseas, Alans unique ability to relate to people from all walks of Our corporate culture is also central to the organisation, life and across the entire organisation.
who we are, and how we go about business.
As a business that is so reliant on people and relationships, it is central Both my Board colleagues and I were deeply saddened to the success of Hays.
We encourage an open and by Alans passing.
Although he had been unwell, it was communicative culture where all employees are unexpected and sudden.
True to his style, he was battling encouraged to participate with ideas and take the hard, and still serving Hays so effectively to within a week initiative, and we encourage engagement with all of his passing.
He will be greatly missed by all of us at our stakeholders.
I would like to express thanks on behalf of the Board and everyone at Hays for the kind words that have been said by so many of you who had the good fortune to know Alan.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 Consistent with this, in June, we held our fifth Global Having delivered another strong financial performance, Conference for the senior leadership team, in London.
including strong cash conversion, we have a year-end There were 170 colleagues from around the world.
Consistent with our approach last year, objective of the conference was to get a real insight into the Board proposes the distribution of some of this by some of the exciting trends and developments going on way of a special dividend, for the second successive year.
in a rapidly-changing world and then to encourage our Voting at last years AGM suggests it was a well-received people to think about the implications and opportunities decision, and we hope it will be again this year.
for our business and our wider stakeholders.
This provided Finally, I look forward to meeting any shareholders all of the Board members a great opportunity to spend who can join us at our AGM in November, and would time with the senior leadership team, and see both the like to thank you for your continued support.
challenges and opportunities facing them, and some of their approaches to dealing with those.
Andrew Martin Chairman On that note, I would like to thank all of our employees and teams across the Group for their continued hard work and support.
Without each of them, the successful year we have enjoyed would not have been possible.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on Our governance framework its proceedings, and minutes of the meetings are available Responsibility for good governance rests with the Board: this as appropriate.
is underpinned by an effective governance framework which, the Board believes, fits the requirements of Hays business.
Statement of Code Compliance The Board retains certain matters for its own preserve: other Hays plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code specific responsibilities are delegated to its principal Committees, the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at namely the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and frc.
As a listed company, Hays is the Nomination Committee.
Each of these Committees operates required to report on how it has applied the principles of the Code within defined terms of reference, which are available on the and this is set out in the following pages.
The Board is pleased to Companys website.
The Board has also delegated to a subreport that Hays has complied with all of the provisions of the Code committee certain matters which are routine in nature, or which throughout the year ended 30 June 2018.
It also complied to the have been agreed in principle by the Board: these require date of this document, with the exception that, following Andrew a meeting of three directors, with an appropriate mix of executives Martins appointment as Chairman, initially on an interim basis, the and non-executives.
Such matters are reported to the full Board.
decision was taken not to appoint an interim Senior Independent Director, but instead await a permanent appointment.
Board of Directors Responsible for the overall management of the organisation of our business S ets standards, policies and strategic aims E nsures we have the resources in place to meet our objectives M onitors and reviews material strategic issues, financial performance and risk management More details page 54 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee R eviews and monitors S ets, reviews and recommends overall M akes recommendations to financial statements remuneration policy and strategy the Board on its composition Oversees external audit R eviews and approves remuneration and that of its Committees Reviews internal audit plans arrangements for executive directors More details page 60 and senior management More details page 63 More details page 68 Chief Executive Management Board Day-to-day management of our business and operations, responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business More details page 54 Group Risk Committee Provides strategic leadership, direction and oversight of risk More details page 58 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
