Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 08 INVESTMENT REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A year of consolidation At the half-year stage, the net asset value per share NAV Over this six year period, 89m has been used to repurchase had risen by 9.6%.
However, the final quarter of 2018 saw over 10.4m of the Companys shares.
In 2018 alone, we a sharp correction in markets, which more than eliminated repurchased 1.4m shares, at a cost of 17m.
At the end of earlier gains and the NAV had fallen by 4.9% by the year end.
2012 there was modest net debt of 18m: by the end of Likewise, the share price total return fell 8.2% for the year.
2018 there were net liquid assets cash and Government It is always disappointing to report negative returns, but the bonds of 116m.
The return in sterling during 2018 on portfolio had been positioned defensively, reflecting the short-dated US Government bonds, held as a proxy for cash, managers belief that some valuations had become was 8.8%, which was better than the return on equities.
The performance relative to Last year was an extraordinarily busy one for primary offerings.
the wider market is quite pleasing, since the wider market Our manager endeavoured to resist these, except to support captured by the FTSE All Share Index depreciated by 9.5%.
existing investments or where there was exceptional value.
We enter 2019 more comfortable that valuations now offer A number of the larger IPOs were exits for private equity and scope for good absolute performance once again.
venture capital where there was limited value.
These were mainly in the US.
In the UK there was better value, but some At the year end, UK listed companies accounted for 52% of potential IPOs did not make it to market because there was the net assets, which is down from 60% a year ago.
This was insufficient demand, which was disappointing.
influenced by a deliberate reduction of 54.6 million in the exposure to AIM stocks because valuations had become There have been dire predictions in the media about stretched and we were concerned about the sustainability the risks in the technology sector and the high valuations.
of inheritance tax relief on AIM stocks.
Having represented From our perspective the valuations seem high in the private 47% of the portfolio at the end of 2017, AIM stocks were markets, but we are encouraged that valuations seem more just 35% by the end of 2018.
sensible in public markets, particularly following the recent The UK portfolio returned minus 8.7%.
There are no parallels to the TMT sector in 2000, the Numis Smaller Companies Index plus AIM when valuations were universally too high.
The most pressing issue today is the trade and tariff war The North American portfolio accounts for 24% of net between the US and China.
It appears that President Trumps assets, unchanged from the prior year.
The positive return aggressive stance is supported by the US electorate, and of 11.7% in sterling terms is satisfactory in both an absolute even more by the US security departments, so tensions and relative sense.
Although US technology has offered are unlikely to abate.
We may be seeing the start of major better returns than most equity indices in 2018, by the structural changes with a Western US centric sector year end the Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index diverging from China, and China developing an indigenous in sterling terms returned only 4.7% in sterling, and self-contained sector.
This has already become apparent declined marginally in dollars.
in the telecoms sector where it appears that Ericsson and Nokia will dominate supply of 5G in the West, versus Huawei The technology correction in the US had been much and ZTE in China.
However, the markets in Asia and Europe 5.9% and 5.0% of the portfolio respectively were more The challenge will be for hardware companies dependent challenging.
The environment for profits in our sector has on a China supply chain, such as Apple.
China is currently a generally been benign in the UK and US.
This has not been the big importer of semiconductors from Taiwan, Korea and the case in technology manufacturing in Asia.
The maturity of the US and is clearly intent on developing indigenous capacity, smartphone and PC market was predictable, but the Trump which will present other challenges.
trade battles with China on top created a difficult environment.
It is already evident that sub-contract manufacturing is The KOSDAQ Korean IT Index declined 22.8% in 2018, moving out of China at the commodity end for cost reasons, the Taiwan Electronics Index declined 6.8% and the Chinese and further up the value chain for tariff and political reasons.
The decline in Heralds Asian Herald focuses on investing in small companies, so we are portfolio of 10.9% was therefore relatively good.
The return only marginally exposed to this dynamic: we have a modest on the small European portfolio was the most disappointing, weighting in Asian manufacturing and no exposure to the with a decline of 23.8% in sterling terms.
In the long run the large semiconductor companies.
returns on the European portion of the portfolio have been the best, but valuations had become extended.
The only effect will be secondary, if the US China tensions inhibit global growth.
Trump might be an unpredictable 2018 has been the sixth year in succession in which sales mouthpiece to trade negotiations, but it is certain that there of investments in the portfolio have exceeded purchases.
is a wider US establishment alarm at the growing strength of Net sales were 40m in the first half and a further 18m in the Chinese technology industry, and the US dependency on the second half.
Over the last six years, sales have exceeded it as a supplier, for security reasons more than the balance purchases by 218m.
Over that time there have been 80 of trade.
It seems wise to assume that this will be an evolving takeovers of portfolio companies with an aggregate value issue for months and years to come.
If China still has to of 347m, of which 16 occurred in 2018 with an aggregate develop leading edge semiconductor technology, it is value of 74m from completed deals and a further 5m already leading edge in many internet technologies.
which has yet to complete.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 09 Although some valuations are discounting considerable growth, The industry has had to contend with, among others, MiFID, and are stretched when adjusted for share-based payments, AIFMD, UCITS V, CRD, SRD, Benchmark regulations, PRIIPs, the sector is still dynamic, and small companies continue to GDPR and most recently MiFID II.
Most of these have emanated emerge at sensible valuations.
The UK has entrepreneurial from the European Union and have been required to be creativity and continues to be an interesting market.
It is incorporated in UK law.
Every one of these directives has required constrained by a shortage of institutional co-investors, management time and the great majority have added directly but that helps Herald in terms of value at the point of entry.
to the costs borne by shareholders and investment managers.
Valuations remain more challenging in North America, but the economy and sector remains world-leading.
The most recent legislation, MiFID II has fundamentally altered the balance in the broking and investment banking industry in The implementation of MiFID II has clearly not helped.
Successful institutional small company investment managers tend to move up the size scale ignoring microcaps, and The smaller broking houses, which are essential to the health illiquidity is increasing due to market breakdown.
This is a of the smaller companies sector, have been put under great greater concern for open-ended funds with unpredictable pressure by the new environment which has been forced on cash flows.
them by the changed requirements in relation to the payment of commissions and for research.
The focus of the fund is capital appreciation, but the Company has again delivered a small profit in income terms, AGM AND CONTINUATION VOTE although insufficient to pay a dividend.
The forthcoming AGM, to which all shareholders are invited, provides shareholders with an opportunity to vote on the BOARD COMPOSITION AND GOVERNANCE continuation of the Company, as the articles of association I will retire as your chairman at the conclusion of the AGM require every third year.
Herald is one of the largest investment on 16 April 2019.
It has been a great privilege to have been trusts specialising in TMT and has performed very well since a director of Herald since 2008 and its chairman since 2009. its launch in February 1994.
It is the only specialist technology The Company has delivered outstanding returns to orientated investment trust with a material exposure to the shareholders since it was formed in 1994.
Herald is unique United Kingdom.
among investment trusts in playing a vital role in the funding and development of start-ups and small businesses in the The Herald board believes that the investment managers TMT sector and there have been many examples where this focus on smaller capitalisation companies provides exposure has delivered value for our shareholders, and for the sector.
to some of the most rapidly growing companies within the In addition it has made an invaluable contribution to the UK.
Companys targeted sectors and that this should continue to provide attractive long term investment opportunities.
I would like to pay tribute to the contribution of Katie Potts and her team, who have delivered a near four-fold increase in NAV The directors believe that the prospects for investment in the per share since I became chairman.
I would also like to thank TMT sectors remain positive and that we are fortunate to be all of my fellow directors, past and present, for their wise managed by Katie Potts.
She is one of the most experienced counsel and unswerving support while I have been chairman.
and successful managers in the sector.
Your board strongly recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution Your board has carefully considered board composition for to continue as an investment trust as the directors intend the period ahead.
We were very pleased to recruit Ian Russell to do in relation to their own shareholdings.
as a director from August 2018 and, subject to his election by shareholders at the AGM, he will succeed me as chairman.
We remain enthusiastic about the TMT sector in which Ian has extensive and varied NED experience, including on we operate.
the boards of other investment trusts.
He is well placed to lead the Company into the future.
JULIAN CAZALET CHAIRMAN We also recognised that it would be appropriate to increase 19 February 2019 the size of the board to five directors in order to recruit an independent director with specific experience in accounting.
We are delighted that Stephanie Eastment, who is a qualified chartered accountant with great experience in fund management, joined the board in December 2018 and she has succeeded James Will as chair of the audit committee.
REGULATION My tenure as chairman has coincided with a huge increase in NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE regulation in the fund management sector.
Every new piece PENCE of legislation has added cost and complexity to the industry and ultimately to shareholders.
The effects are exemplified 1400 by the increase in the length of the annual report and accounts.
The additional 1200 14 pages comprise regulatory disclosures which were not deemed necessary in 2008 but are now required to satisfy 1000 all the regulatory bodies.
