Strategic report Strategic report Chairmans statement The Company has sold a record number of investments 10 10 during 2018, whilst continuing to invest selectively in businesses that offer opportunities for value creation.
We expect these to deliver substantial growth over the next few years.
We have announced excellent results for 2018 a total share price total return over the year was 13.0% above that return in NAV per share of 14.3%, mostly from growth in of the FTSE AllShare Index.
The Companys share price has profits, and well ahead of the wider market.
Our top twenty recovered strongly so far in 2019 to reach a new high of investments 89% of the portfolio achieved 25% growth 20.50, before the release of our yearend NAV.
At this in revenues and 27% growth in earnings over the year, price, the Company has a market capitalisation of accelerating from 2017 when revenues grew by 17% and 765 million.
I am pleased to report that, with effect from earnings by 15% on a value weighted basis.
This excellent 11 October 2018, the Company was promoted into the trading performance in 2018 and exits above book value FTSE 250 index as a result of its consistent growth in led to the NAV per share reaching 21.57 at 31 December, market value.
an alltime high, with the net assets of the Company at During 2018, we were very pleased to receive the 805 million.
Investment Week Award for Private Equity Company In 2018, we realised a record number of businesses, of the Year, and to be selected by FTAdvisor as their Fund investing cash proceeds into companies that could grow of the Year in the specialist sectors segment.
and add value through any potential market correction.
Proposed dividend In total, we sold 12 businesses, realising gross cash We have proposed an unchanged final dividend of 30 pence, proceeds of 247 million and adding 46.3 million to NAV, making 46 pence for the year, a yield of 2.6% on the with the great majority of these sales achieved at prices yearend share price.
As I have explained in previous years, above their most recent valuations.
In addition to these the Company is not managed to achieve earnings, but exits, a further 24.7 million was returned to the Company rather for growth in total return: income will fluctuate from through refinancings.
Growth in the earnings of our year to year depending on the financial structure of the unrealised investments added 99.2 million to NAV.
investments we hold and on returns on liquid funds awaiting When we value our investments, we apply the ratings of deployment.
In 2018, the Companys earned income was similar technology and service businesses: these continue slightly below previous years and so the Board has held the to be high relative to the wider market, reflecting their dividend flat, although it remains our intention to increase resilience, robust sales growth and strong margins.
dividends in future when the conditions are suitable, as we The Manager and Board assess each valuation carefully, recognise that yield is important to some investors.
selecting and weighting comparable companies to derive a multiple for valuing each of our businesses.
Trading in our Ordinary shares At 31 December, roughly half the businesses benefited Maintaining a liquid market in our Ordinary shares is from slightly higher ratings than at 30 June, while half of the important to all shareholders.
valuations were based on lower multiples.
Overall, 22 of Over the years, as the Company has grown in size and our investments were revalued upwards and 8 downwards visibility, volumes of trading in our shares have increased before the effects of foreign exchange.
FX movements and promotion into the FTSE 250 is likely to attract more made a small net contribution overall, with volatility in investors and enhance this liquidity further.
At the same exchange rates dampened by a number of hedges.
time, the strong growth in our share price, from close to Share price performance 11 per share 5 years ago to over 20 per share, has resulted in a heavy share price which is inconvenient to Over the course of the year, the Companys share price some shareholders and can be an impediment to moved ahead marginally from 17.68 to 17.85.
In the last investment for some types of investor.
quarter of the year, the equity market as a whole was nervous, with the FTSE AllShare Index ending the year With that in mind, the Board would like to split each share 9.5% down on the year: our share price suffered in the final into 10.
At the AGM, we will propose that each of the quarter along with others.
Nevertheless, the Companys Companys shares of 25p nominal value is subdivided into HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Chairmans statement continued The performance of the Company over 2018 is 11 11 consistent with its longterm record, achieving our target and demonstrating the superior returns that can be gained by an allocation to the Companys shares in the portfolio of an investor looking for longterm growth.
Roger Mountford, Chairman, HgCapital Trust plc 10 shares of 2.5p nominal value as detailed on pages 109 to go into decline: investors need to be well briefed about and 133 of this Report.
If approved at the AGM, your these opportunities and threats and to be able to identify, holding will be multiplied by 10 and the share price of each with confidence, which businesses understand and can new share is anticipated to adjust downwards accordingly.
I should emphasise that shareholders will lose no value as a Hg targets businesses with proven, repeatable models.
direct result of this change and, indeed, easier trading in It does not invest in companies with unproven technology our shares might increase demand for them.
The Boards or directly in earlystage businesses.
These businesses have statement that it anticipates that future dividends will be benefitted for several years from the shift from the sale of no less than 46.0 pence per share, split between an interim software packages that are purchased and then operated and final dividend, should be interpreted as referring to inhouse, to offering SoftwareasaService SaaS, using dividends of not less than 4.6 pence per new share, should the Cloud for secure delivery, data storage, and access.
the subdivision resolution be approved.
The transition in many of our businesses to Cloudbased computing further enhances ratings as well as widening Our investment proposition margins: an insight describing this effect is set out on The Companys strategic objective is to provide patient page 23 of this Report and there is further information on investors with sustained longterm value creation, the Managers website www.
A number of principally through capital growth.
At any one time we will the businesses in our current portfolio notably Visma, hold around thirty carefully selected businesses, across the Sovos, IRIS, Access and Allocate Software are already technology and services area.
We aim to hold these during offering SaaS solutions and we expect this technological periods of transition and expansion that we expect to wave to continue to provide us with excellent returns.
create substantial shareholder value through active and engaged ownership.
Together, these businesses are Improvements in our shareholder communications equivalent in scale to some of the largest technology We remain committed to the continuous improvement groups in Europe.
The private equity approach enables us of our communications to investors and industry to capture the network benefits that flow from sharing commentators.
Last year, as we do every few years, knowhow and feedback from the experiences of we commissioned a perception audit: a specialist firm companies in the Hg network while maintaining the interviewed many of our shareholders, potential autonomy of each management team and rewarding them shareholders and analysts in order to provide us with for their own performance through ownership incentives in comprehensive feedback on our strategy and the particular business they manage.
Hg has continued to communications.
In order to increase our reach to current invest in building its own Operations Group including many and potential shareholders, we have agreed with Edison highly experienced Operating Partners and its Operations Research that they will produce written research on the Innovation team.
Members of this group go into the Company, its investments and prospects: this will facilitate businesses we own to help drive substantial change, wider demand for our shares via IFAs and platforms by without the constraints that often impede large listed providing them with regular research coverage.
During 2018, the Manager organised 14 events, research is paid for by the Company, but will be freely attended by over 700 portfolio company executives, each distributed to thousands of investors: we expect coverage focused on a particular area of business improvement: the to commence in due course.
In 2019, we also look forward network effect of this creates a powerful tool for sharing to launching a new website that we hope will be more best practice across comparable businesses.
This is engaging, informative and easier to navigate for all our described in detail in pages 25 to 27 of this Report.
In the meantime, regular updates on Hgs In my statement last year, I suggested that businesses that investments and the technology sector are available do not address, and adopt, technological change are likely at www.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic report Chairmans statement continued Corporate governance The Association of Investment Companies AIC published 12 12 its revised Corporate Governance Code shortly before this I reported last year that, following an online search, we had Report was finalised.
The Board will consider its contents appointed two new nonexecutive directors, Dr Jim Strang carefully and whether we should do more to adopt best and Dr Guy Wakeley.
The Board had carried out an annual practice across everything we do.
The Board has asked our review of its own effectiveness and resolved to broaden the Senior Independent Director, Anne West, to take the lead skills and experience of the Board in order to be better able in considering what steps we should take to improve to support and challenge the Manager.
To do this we needed corporate governance: as a former Chief Investment Officer to add deep knowledge of the global private equity sector of Cazenove she will be well aware of the expectations and handson experience of the application of technology to of leading institutions.
These have built on our existing skills in investment management, wealth management, corporate Maintaining momentum finance, audit and risk management and corporate Every two to three years, the Company makes a governance.
It is already clear that adding broader commitment to invest in parallel with the funds raised experience to the Board has enriched our discussions and by our Manager, Hg, on the same terms as major global enabled us to engage more effectively with the Manager institutional investors who are limited partners in those across all aspects of the business.
Our aim is to be as funds: we invest with them in each business pro rata to wellequipped as the Board of any large technology group our respective commitments.
These funds are all focused to give direction and scrutiny to the Companys activities.
on identifying businesses in the same segments of the The Board pays particular attention to identifying and market, but in different sizes and at different stages of mitigating risks: it engages with the Manager regularly to development.
The Company is thus able to invest in discuss risks facing the Company and businesses we own, a far wider range of opportunities, and in much larger and where necessary to challenge Hg to provide assurance businesses, than its own size alone would allow: we can that specific risks are being adequately managed.
One area also hold successful, growing businesses for longer, where of risk that the Board has focused on over several years is value will continue to be created.
The Company has cyberrisk, which has the potential to damage the additionally benefited from the much greater resources reputation and value of the technology and service in terms of people, skills and research the Manager businesses in which we specialise.
responded well and early to this risk, recruiting an expert, The Company is currently investing in parallel with Hg as a fulltime Operating Partner, who has worked with Saturn, Hg8 and Hg Mercury 2 Funds, with aggregate management teams across the portfolio to support them commitments of 580 million to these funds.
In addition, in their work to build suitable protections and share best last year we committed a further 75 million to Hg to invest practice.
The Companys Annual Report last year contained in Transition Capitalstructured minority positions in a detailed insight into Hgs work on managing businesses where the founders expect to move towards cybersecurity.
This risk has been highlighted recently by selling control within five years: during 2018 we made our a cyberattack, known as Cloudhopper, against Visma and first investment of this kind, 15 million into BrightPay.
other global technology groups in the USA and Europe.
We also have ongoing agreements with the Manager to I am pleased to report that Visma revealed and disarmed make equity coinvestments alongside the Hg Saturn, this attack quickly, with no adverse impact on its own Hg8 and Hg Mercury 2 Funds.
This gives the Company systems or any of its clients data or operations.
Moreover, more opportunity to invest the balance sheet efficiently to assist all users of software, Visma not only disclosed this and to reduce the cost to investors.
cyberattack promptly, but in February 2018 also published a detailed analysis of the attack.
I and my colleagues on the By committing to invest across all these strategies we are Board commend Vismas management and Hg for the able to target investments with enterprise values ranging honesty and transparency which they have demonstrated from 50 million to over 1 billion.
We expect to benefit and their contribution to industrywide collaboration, not only from the strong organic growth in these which is vital in the fight against this pervasive threat.
businesses but also from the very broad experience and insights gained from across the market and which can be Before this cyberattack occurred, as a result of one of our shared between established, large players and younger, regular reviews of the Companys risk register, the Board innovative businesses that were born in the Cloud.
asked our two new Directors to review our approach to overall risk management.
They have recently presented At the time of completing this Report, the Companys their proposals which will provide the Company with new three principal commitments to Hg Saturn, Hg8 and Hg tools to keep our analysis of risks uptodate and prioritise Mercury 2 are c. 40% invested.
Although the Board and our actions to manage and mitigate them.
This work Manager share a degree of caution about asset prices in demonstrates the benefits of regularly refreshing the general there continues nonetheless to be an attractive Board, introducing new thinking and experience into our pipeline of potential opportunities of all sizes targeted debates and to our dialogue with the Manager.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Chairmans statement continued By committing to invest across all Hgs Funds we are able to 13 13 target investments with enterprise values ranging from 50 million to over 1 billion.
We expect to benefit not only from the strong organic growth in these businesses but also from the very broad experience and insights gained from across the market and which can be shared between established, large players and younger, innovative businesses that were born in the Cloud.
Roger Mountford, Chairman, HgCapital Trust plc Against the background of the very stable and successful arising from the benefits of new technology is likely business model we have developed with the Manager over to continue at a faster rate than any cyclical downturn.
some twenty years, the Board has been discussing with We therefore anticipate strong continuing growth in Hg the likely timing and potential size of new commitments.
the underlying earnings of the businesses we own.
We expect to have detailed discussions towards the The sectors in which we invest command aboveaverage Autumn of 2019 and enter into new commitments at the multiples: these may be affected by a general correction start of next year.
In order to maintain the Companys in equity markets, but these businesses remain in great momentum, these future commitments may represent demand from investors and concerns about a cyclical a further step up in size, and therefore the Board will decline only encourage such demand, thanks to their consider a potential share issue, providing the market resilience.
In any event, businesses that are growing conditions permit, offering existing and new shareholders earnings at 25% per annum can rapidly make up for any, the opportunity to subscribe and increase our equity base.
possibly temporary, easing in trading multiples.
As further support for the next wave of new commitments, While we continue to hold some large and very successful the Company has recently extended its 80 million bank businesses, we also have a large number of more recent facility until June 2022, with the option of adding a further investments that we expect to deliver substantial growth 80 million via an accordion facility, subject to the banks over the next few years.
On average, we have owned our agreement at the time.
current investments for only 2 years, which offers many further opportunities for enhancement to operations.
Risks and prospects The data on pages 8 and 9 of this Report show that the Equity markets in general are displaying nervousness Companys net asset value and share price continue to arising from heightened risk of a slowdown in global outperform the FTSE AllShare Index.
The twentyyear growth, which may be exacerbated by trade wars or at compound NAV per share total return has been 13.8% p. a. least the uncertainty created by threats of tariffs and and the annualised share price total return has been 14.5%, quotas impeding and distorting international trade.
compared with a return of just 5% p. a. from the Index.
The UK and the EU face added uncertainty from the The Companys outperformance against the Index has been difficulties in reaching agreement for an orderly Brexit.
accelerating over the last five years.
The Board and Manager have continued to review the These rates of return over long periods achieve our target analysis made since the referendum in 2016, to assess the and demonstrate the superior performance that can be potential impact on businesses we own.
Few of these trade achieved by an allocation to the Companys shares in the between the UK and the EU27, and none participates in portfolio of an investor looking for longterm growth.
physical deliveries: nor can we identify any specific adverse effects of a separation in the regulatory frameworks to which any business is exposed.
There remains some risk of increased volatility in foreign exchange rates where the Company has net investments in assets valued in Euro, US dollar and Norwegian Krone.
Many of the companies we own provide businesscritical Roger Mountford services that customers find difficult to replace.
While a general slowdown in economic activity could affect Chairman 8 March 2019 demand for such services, the secular growth in demand HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
