Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholder, 2018 was a more challenging year for your company but I am pleased to report that, notwithstanding the difficult environment for certain businesses in the first half, particularly in the UK, the second half saw the return to growth that we were expecting.
I believe that, in the circumstances, the outturn of revenues of 637.9m 2017: 585.1m and underlying profit of 80.1m 2017: 81.3m represent a good performance.
The results are explained in detail in the Operating and Financial Review OFR.
We continued to pursue our strategy of building on our leadership position in niche markets serving infrastructure needs in a range of countries, with the majority of revenue and profits arising in the UK and US.
We focus on countries with high levels of infrastructure investment driven either by regulation, health and safety, security or environmental concerns, or by emerging economic growth, or both.
Our strategy is to grow both organically and through acquisition and, as you will see in the OFR, revenue grew organically by 3% and has been further supplemented by additional net revenue of 40.5m from acquisitions disposals.
Jock Lennox We completed six acquisitions for a total consideration of 45.2m, five in the UK and US and one in Scandinavia.
These have expanded Chairman our product range in both Roads and Utilities and have been successfully integrated into our existing businesses.
After the year-end, we announced the acquisition of ATG Access Limited for Succession planning has remained an important Board priority and a consideration of 22.5m.
Based in the UK, ATG has a considerable we have discussed the various plans and activities in place, both international market footprint so will add both products and routes business-level specifics and also the wider development activities to market for our security products operations.
that are in place to ensure people are ready to step up when the time comes.
We continue to look at diversity in all its senses so that our As well as maintaining an active acquisition pipeline and leading mix of people is tapping into all the sources of talent.
subsequent effective integration, your management, ably led by the Executive Directors, has continued to work on the performance of Purpose and values the continuing businesses, generating ideas and opportunities for growth.
You will see examples of these in the various sections of You will see on page 10 of this Annual Report that we have set out the Purpose and Values for Hill & Smith for the first time.
Whilst this this Annual Report.
is also in anticipation of the new Code, the publication of these is in In the wide portfolio of businesses that comprise Hill & Smith there essence a formalisation of what Hill & Smith has been designed to has been a range of performances in 2018.
The Boards focus is very achieve, and how it has set out to achieve it, for a number of years much to review and debate business performance, to encourage now.
attainment of the key performance metrics, and to ensure that the overall mix of businesses is capable of delivering the Groups targeted So that these important statements are aligned with the individual returns.
Our attention on this proactive portfolio management very businesses, work has been undertaken involving the Executive much continues.
Directors and business-level management to test the direction and points of emphasis.
In adopting these Purpose and Value In addition to the focus on performance your Board has spent time statements the Board was able to see that they sit comfortably looking at our purpose and values, our responsibilities to all of our at the business level and can be made to work.
We will provide stakeholders, especially our employees, our environmental impact feedback on their impact in due course.
and succession at the Board level and throughout the businesses.
We have also discussed the dividend and the risk environment, Environment including Brexit, and these are all covered further below.
We have been reporting on our impact on the environment for People a number of years now.
The detailed results are included in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report CSR contained within All companies are reliant on the commitment of their people to this Annual Report.
pursue their strategy successfully, and Hill & Smith is no exception.
As this aspect of corporate responsibility continues to develop we At 31 December 2018, we had 4,327 employees, including 180 who joined with the acquisitions completed during the year.
On behalf of look regularly at the scope of reporting so that the communication the Board, I would like to thank all of them, new and old, for rising to is consistent and appropriate.
Our aim is to conform with our the challenge and producing the results that we can see.
As the Group continues to grow, our reporting is focused on accounting for the change in the impact of our relative Our primary responsibility to our employees is to ensure that our intensity.
I am pleased to say that this has continued to reduce, from businesses are safe places to work.
This is discussed further under 0.116 in 2017 to 0.108 in 2018.
Health & Safety As a Board we have been reviewing our employee engagement in light of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which We continue to place a high emphasis on ensuring that we make came into effect on 1 January 2019.
We will be reporting on this in our various sites safe places to work for our employees and visitors.
Detailed reporting is contained within the CSR report.
We believe it is important to encourage employee shareholder The Board receives regular analyses of incidents both actual and participation wherever practical and we currently have 786 of our near misses.
Management continues to work with the businesses UK-based employees enrolled in our Save as You Earn SAYE so that we see consistent reporting and the willingness to learn schemes.
In a diverse Group like Hill & Smith, 6 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 particularly with the acquisitions that are made, this will remain a continuing point of emphasis.
For the incidents reported, attention is very much on looking for root causes so that learnings can be made Training & development and shared as necessary across the Group.
We continue to use a third party assurance and advisory support service and have now extended this to a domestic provider in the The Apprenticeship Levy US.
Over the last two years the focus on reporting and auditing has seen accidents reduce by 7.8% and the injury rate per 100,000 Since the launch of the Apprenticeship Levy in May employees reduce by 13.6%.
2017, Hill & Smith has seen an increase in the number of Board succession personal training and development opportunities across the Group.
The Group contributes c. 280,000 annually In the year, as has already been mentioned, the Code was updated.
One and is determined to ensure that all our UK businesses of the changes is the application, for the first time, of the nine year are committed to implementing training schemes.
To rule to the tenure of the Chair.
This is highly relevant to Hill & Smith as I facilitate this our Group head office works closely with joined the Board in 2009. an Apprenticeship Levy manager to interact with the 10 I have set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report UK subsidiaries to drive engagement in apprenticeship how this provision applies.
The recommendation of the Board, led schemes.
In the last 12 months we have gone from having by the Senior Independent Director for this purpose and excluding only 5 apprentices across three of our UK subsidiaries me, is that I should be proposed for re-election at the Annual to having 64 across eight.
Work will continue in 2019 to General Meeting in May.
My tenure will continue to be subject to encourage more use of the levy.
The Board has also agreed that during 2019 it will Sites are taking advantage of utilising their Levy in a commence a search for an additional Non-executive Director to variety of areas: however, the greatest impact is through further strengthen the composition of the Board.
Business Improvement Techniques across numerous I held a number of meetings with leading shareholders during 2018 companies launching this summer.
Through 5S, Kaizen and among other matters I flagged the Boards thinking regarding my and efficiency projects those sites will see a great return tenure as Chairman.
The feedback was supportive and we will continue on investment during the programme by making the with this process of consultation through the Senior Independent processes slicker, resolving issues and improving bottom Director during 2019. line profits.
Staff are really getting involved in making a tangible difference in their workplace.
Along with this sites As at the date of this report, Mark Pegler will step down as Group are taking on Apprentices across a variety of other areas: Finance Director on 30 April 2019.
This move reflects the outcome Business Administration, Electrical Engineering, Design of the Boards long-term succession planning alongside Marks Draughtsperson, Health & Safety, Welding, Warehousing, personal plans for the future.
I wish him well and would like to add Sales and Accounting.
my thanks for his major contribution to the development of Hill & Smith.
A search for his successor is underway.
Other Training Looking ahead The HS Group General Management Development As is well documented, we face a variety of uncertainties in 2019, Programme will begin in April 2019 with six workshop not least Brexit, the range of possible outcomes and their likely dates throughout April to October 2019.
This is for existing impact in the UK.
managers who have had no formal training and want to In our disclosures on principal risks and risk management and our further develop their leadership skills.
The programme comments on the potential impact of Brexit as set out in the OFR, comprises six one-day workshops and will be held at our we have set out the matters that we have identified as needing Bilston site.
It is a skills development programme, and to be managed and mitigated as we pursue the next stage of can be converted in to ILM qualification at a later date if development of Hill & Smith.
The outlook section in the OFR sets out our expectations for the Our Understanding the Essentials of Finance workshop year ahead which, overall, are that we are cautiously optimistic that will help non-financial managers develop their financial 2019 will be a year of progress for Hill & Smith.
understanding, appreciate how their decisions affect their organisations financial performance and enable them to Dividend and Annual General Meeting contribute to and understand financial discussions and The Board has proposed a 6% increase in the final dividend to 21.8p meetings in the workplace.
It will demystify the jargon, which, if approved, would result in a full year dividend also up 6% at explore key ratios, and examine key trends and areas 31.8p.
Dividends are a central part of shareholder returns and this for concern as well as help managers identify future key will be our sixteenth successive year of increases, a testament to issues, threats and opportunities and how to plan and the Groups cash generative business model.
The Annual General Meeting is to be held at The Village Hotel, Shirley, In Q2 of 2019 we shall be introducing our Successful B90 4GW on 16 May 2019.
The meeting is an ideal forum for raising Supervisors Programme, a three-part programme for any questions you may have of your Board and I hope many of you take first-line managers supervisors to build their leadership advantage of the opportunity.
I look forward to meeting you there.
skills and develop their teams by encouraging flexibility, motivation and a positive attitude to work.
Jock Lennox Chairman 6 March 2019 hsholdings.
