Executive Chairmans statement It was more than 40 years ago that my father founded Hikma with the purpose of making high-quality medicines accessible to those who need them.
I am proud that our business has always remained true to this purpose.
Transformational change inleadership It has been more than 30 years since I first held an executive leadership role at Hikma.
During this period, the Group has grown significantly, expanding into the US and Europe and solidifying our position as the leading local pharmaceutical company in MENA.
In order to deliver the next chapter of growth, the Board and I felt that this year was the right time to bring in new leadership.
On 20 February 2018, we announced the appointment of Sigurdur Siggi Olafsson as our new Chief Executive Officer CEO.
As Executive Chairman, I am working closely with Siggi to set and deliver the strategic vision for the Group.
I have known and admired Siggi for many years and I am confident that he is the right person to strengthen our business, accelerate our growth and to help us achieve our goal of putting better health within reach for patients across our markets.
Strong corporate governance Over a number of years, we have been evolving and strengthening the governance of Hikma.
This year, we continued on this trajectory, most notably by appointing the first non-family CEO, as discussed above.
We also completed the implementation of our succession plan for longer-serving independent directors.
Details of the activities of the Board, and its Committees, are laid out in the Corporate governance section of this report.
Supporting our communities My fathers vision was that Hikma would enrich the communities in which we operate and enable a better quality of life for the patients we serve.
We strive to fulfil this commitment This is an exciting time for Hikma as we embark on our next by increasing access to high-quality medicines across ourmarkets, as well as through chapter of growth.
As we invest in the future, we maintain donations, fundraising and volunteering.
This our commitment to strong corporate governance, the highest year, we were very proud to form a four-year global partnership with Direct Relief, one of the quality standards and to improving the lives of our patients and our communities.
4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Executive Chairmans statement worlds leading medical relief organisations, We remain committed to delivering consistent Through our venture capital arm, Hikma and to become a Patron of The Princes Trust, dividend payments.
The Board has Ventures HV, we are investing in the growing the UKs leading youth charity.
recommended a final dividend of 26 cents global digital health space.
In 2018, we per share approximately 20 pence per share, expanded our portfolio with new investments Our continued commitment to strong bringing the total dividend for the full year in Click Therapeutics and Nebula Genomics.
environmental, social and governance ESG to 38 cents per share approximately 29 pence HV also completed its first successful exit practices continues tobe recognised as per share, up from 34 cents per share when one of its early portfolio investments demonstrated by our inclusion in approximately 24 pence per share in 2017. was acquired in 2018. theFTSE4Good Index in 2018.
Further information on our commitment is provided Investing in the future Quality without boundaries in the Sustainability section of this report.
Across our markets, where increasing As we grow our businesses and expand our competition is putting downward pressure capabilities, we are benefitting from our Strong financial performance onprices, we need to continuously develop reputation as a consistent and reliable partner and shareholder returns new, more differentiated products to deliver in all of our markets.
Hikma has been built The Group has delivered a strong set of results sustainable long-term growth, making pipeline on a culture of quality that is reflected not just in 2018, ahead of our expectations.
Group core development akeystrategic focus.
in the products wemanufacture but in our operating profit increased by 19% and core people, our relationships and our thinking.
basic earnings per share increased by 31%.
In recent years, we have made good progress Maintaining a culture with quality at its core strengthening our R&D capabilities through willensure we continue to deliver the highest Our improved financial performance and acquisitions and new hires.
However, there standards in the future.
significant strategic progress this year has isstill much to do to increase the number of been reflected in our share price which more specialised products in the pipeline and Looking ahead increased by 51% to 1,716p at 31 December improve the pace of newproduct launches.
Looking ahead to 2019 and beyond, I am 2018.
Hikma has a long track record of creating We have recently strengthened our business veryoptimistic for the future of Hikma.
Over the last five years, development capabilities and we will continue Whilst market conditions are likely to remain we have delivered a total shareholder return working with global partners to co-develop, challenging, we have demonstrated the of 53%, exceeding the FTSE 100 and the license and acquire products.
I believe we have FTSE Pharmaceutical indices of 21% and set ourselves the right strategic objectives 49% respectively, over the same period.
and have a strong leadership team in place to deliver sustainable growth over the long term.
Total shareholder returns, 20132018 Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues across the Hikma family for their hard work 150 anddedication, and the healthcare 130 professionals andother stakeholders that 110 we serve for theircontinued support.
90 70 53% 50 49% 30 21% Said Darwazah 10 Executive Chairman 10 30 50 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 5
