08 Strategic report Chairmans introduction W We e c co on nt ti in nu ue t e to b o bu ui il ld a d a s si ig gn ni ifi fic ca an nt tl ly b y bi ig gg ge er a r an nd m d mo or re e d di iv five er rs si ifi fie ed b d bu us si in ne es ss w s wi it th b h br ro oa ad d f fou oun nd da at ti ion ons s f for or f fu ur rt the her r g gr ro ow wt th h.. R Ro ob be er rt W t Wa at ts so on n o obbee E Ex xe ec cu uti tiv five e C Ch hai air rm man an Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 09 Hilton continued to generate strong Strategic progress Sustainability operating cash flows during 2018 I am pleased to report continued progress At Hilton Food Group we recognise although, as expected, significant in 2018 against our strategic objectives and our responsibility, as one of the capacity investment resulted in year end further expansion of our global footprint.
leading global companies in food net debt of 26.8m, compared with net protein, to support a balanced and In March we commenced production cash of 25.4m at the end of last year.
collaborative approach to all aspects in Australia from a satellite facility in Our continued investment in our facilities of sustainability.
Our total partnership Brisbane, Queensland.
This production includes new technology to increase approach engages our leadership teams will transfer across to our new facility capacity, improve operational efficiency with our customers and suppliers to nearby which is now expected to open and offer innovative solutions to our address the risks and demonstrate in the third quarter of 2019.
In July we retailer partners.
Our commitments show restructured the Australian joint venture that we take environmental and social Dividend policy taking operational control of the existing sustainability seriously and the progress The Board considers that the Groups plants in Bunbury, Western Australia we make through collaboration will further progressive dividend policy maintained and Melbourne, Victoria and also signed strengthen our business partnerships since flotation remains appropriate, given 15year long term supply agreements with andfacilitate sustainable growth.
both the strategic progress achieved in our customer Woolworths.
In October we 2018 and Hiltons continuing strong level agreed to invest in the leading vegetarian Outlook and current trading ofcash generation.
With the proposed product manufacturer, Dalco based in Hiltons operating performance in the final dividend of 15.8p per ordinary share, Oss in the Netherlands, which completed early months of 2019 has been in line with total dividends in respect of 2018 will be following competition authority clearance the Boards expectations.
We completed 21.4pper ordinary share, an increase of since theyear end.
This deal includes an the acquisition of a UK based sous vide 12.6% compared to last year.
option for the remaining 50% of Dalcos manufacturer and continue to explore shares in2024.
This enables Hilton opportunities for further geographical Our Board and governance to diversify into a further protein and expansion in both domestic and The Hilton Board is responsible for the significantly expand its product offering overseas markets.
long term success of the Group and in the fast-growing vegetarian market.
To achieve With regard to Brexit, through our Seachill was  this, it contains an appropriate mix of skills, predominantly local sourcing and during the year with further business depth and diversity and a range of practical operatingmodel together with mitigating wins secured.
business experience, which is available to actions we believe that the Hilton business We have continued to deliver on our support and guide our management teams is sufficiently resilient to withstand the strategies to build a significantly bigger across a wide range of countries.
Brexit uncertainties whilst minimising and more diversified business with broad disruption.
Further details are in the During the year Colin Smith retired as foundations for further growth.
Non-Executive Chairman having made Group performance a significant contribution to Hiltons Short and medium term growth is successful growth over the last eight underpinned by new facilities due to open We grew our volume in 2018 maintaining years culminating in Hiltons entry in Australia and New Zealand in 2019 and a trend of continuous growth achieved in intotheFTSE250 Index in June 2018.
2020 respectively, expanding the fish every year since Hiltons flotation in 2007.
I transitioned into the role of Executive category and, developing the vegetarian There was strong operating profit growth Chairman with Philip Heffer being category through Dalco, fresh convenience of over 27% including a full year of trading promoted to CEO.
Angus Porter was food category in Central Europe and ready at Seachill following the 2017 acquisition appointed as a new independent to cook sous vide category.
and commencement of production Non-Executive Director.
I would like to inAustralia whilst continuing to invest Annual General Meeting thank my colleagues on the Board for in people and infrastructure to support This years AGM will be held at theirsupport, counsel and expertise growth.
Growth in basic earnings per theOldBridge Hotel, 1 High Street, duringthe year.
sharecompared to last year was over 13%.
Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE293TQ We remain committed to achieving good on21 May 2019 at noon and my governance and compliance with the colleagues and I very much look forwardto UKCorporate Governance Code including seeing those of you who are able to attend.
succession planning and maintaining Robert Watson obe atalent pipeline.
Executive Chairman 26 March 2019 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
