20 Hochschild Mining PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FIT FOR AN EXCITING FUTURE OF GROWTH We have recently established innovation as an important input into our strategy with the ultimate aim of working towards the ideal Hochschild mine of the future.
Eduardo Hochschild Whilst maintaining strict focus on safety Over the year, we have therefore been and environmental performance, a sixth able to repay a further $198 million in year of production growth has been debt, including the early redemption of $41m complemented by exciting results from our senior bonds in January 2018.
This IN DIVIDENDS PAID SINCE 2016 our brownfield exploration programme bond repayment will allow us to save especially at our flagship lnmaculada materially on our interest payments going mine.
Significant new veins have been forward, giving us added flexibility to discovered at lnmaculada, supporting sustain the commitment to our various a life-of-mine extension unprecedented exploration programmes, execute a 92% at Hochschild since the IPO.
Such an number of attractive option agreements INCREASE IN PRODUCTION increase allows our employees, and continue to return capital to our SINCE 2012 management and shareholders to plan shareholders.
ahead with a higher degree of certainty Our company is always evolving and and fundamentally changes how our a commitment to a responsible and company is perceived.
2018 was also innovative operational approach has marked by the repayment of our senior to be balanced by a disciplined focus notes, delivering on our commitment to on the financial realities of our business.
prioritise the repayment of debt and Consequently, the decision to place strengthen our financial position.
With our oldest mine, Arcata, on care and further solid cashflow and a comfortable maintenance following an extensive balance sheet position, the Board is review, has been a difficult one for our pleased to recommend a final dividend management but is a necessary result of 1.959 cents per share $10 million.
Exploration is At the operations we delivered record expected to continue at the deposit and output, with a record contribution from it is to be hoped that higher commodity lnmaculada and a significant increase prices or a sufficient improvement in production from Pallancata.
Our cost in geology would justify a restart in position has remained under control and the future.
despite a deteriorating price environment in the second half of the year, we were still able to generate healthy cashflow.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 21 Brownfield Inferred Resources Plan Achieved Brownfield plan: 20162021 201618 Brownfield plan: 20192021 Targets moz Conservative Base case Optimistic Actual Conservative Base case Optimistic Pallancata 56 98 141 27 60 90 130 San Jose 67 118 168 45 41 73 123 Inmaculada 100 175 250 108 110 160 269 Ares 21 36 51 0 21 36 51 Total 244 427 610 180 232 359 573 Arcata 65 114 163 26 Under review $m 110 165 220 42 70 90 115 $ Ag Eq oz 0.36 0.30 0.28 0.20 0.30 0.25 0.20 2019-21 exploration plan considers known targets only Exploration potential at current properties could materially increase ounces target after 2021 Our brownfield programme remains Despite these efforts, it is deeply Outlook the key pillar of our growth strategy regrettable that there were two Although 2018 was a relatively and excellent progress was made at accidents during 2018 which claimed disappointing year for precious metal lnmaculada in 2018.
Drilling yielded over the lives of three workers.
On behalf of prices, the gold price actually held up one million gold equivalent ounces of the Board, I would like to express our well versus other commodities with the inferred resources and also demonstrated deepest condolences to the families background of a weaker US dollar proving that this rich district could continue to of the victims involved.
Furthermore, whilst deliver economic resources and therefore silver experienced a challenging year, the We maintain our focus on safety and mine life extensions for many years prospects for precious metals in 2019 have I am encouraged that the Plan mentioned to come.
We are confident that the improved as global financial markets have above is delivering improved results.
momentum can be maintained this year started to experience a period of volatility.
In particular, during 2018, the number at lnmaculada and we can also look We are confident that our long-term of high potential safety events across forward to an exciting drill programme growth strategy based around low cost our operations almost halved and the scheduled later in the year at Pallancata.
brownfield exploration, low risk greenfield number of lost time safety events fell by exploration, optimisation of our early Innovation and technology are critical 35% compared to 2017.
The management stage projects and a targeted approach in improving safety, environmental team, and indeed the Board, are firm in to strategic alliances will deliver performance and optimising our their collective commitment that safety shareholder value and attractive capital operations over time.
We have recently will never be compromised at Hochschild returns for many years to come.
established innovation as an important and that every one of us has a part to input into our strategy with the ultimate play in achieving our safety goals.
Another record-breaking year of aim of working towards the ideal production is of course only achievable Environmental Performance Hochschild mine of the future.
During through the efforts of our people.
I wish In last years statement, I talked of the new the last few years, we have established to thank them and my fellow Board environmental corporate objective that a framework targeted throughout our members for their contributions in making had been launched to measure the value chain and involving initiatives in 2018 another successful year.
Hochschild Groups performance in this key area.
Our exploration, mine planning, mining and has come a long way since the IPO in ECO score is calculated using a number mineral processing as well as key support 2006 and, last year, we held a series of of performance metrics including water areas.
The Board believes that significant discussions surrounding our purpose.
It and air quality, the results from regulatory progress has been made in 2018 in is our belief that we have a responsibility inspections, water consumption and the such areas as long hole drilling, mine to lead by example and manage our generation of non-recyclable waste.
The planning software and ore sorting daily operations whilst raising standards stretch target score for the year was set testing.
We believe that by continuing to in employee safety, employee growth, at 4 out of 6 and I am delighted that this invest in such technology initiatives our environmental practices and the was significantly exceeded by a score of management can drastically improve development of local communities.
5.37, a result that is a testament to our our business model in the long-term.
We will also aim to constantly develop people who have risen to the Green better practices through the adoption Safety Challenge that was launched in 2017. of new technologies that improve our The importance of our people is business model.
In summary, the core paramount and, therefore, nothing takes purpose of Hochschild is to be a a higher priority than ensuring their responsible and innovative mining safety.
Accidents at our mine sites in late company committed to a better world.
2017 prompted management to launch a Safety Culture Transformation Plan, an extensive programme comprising: Eduardo Hochschild compulsory training on a weekly basis: Chairman a suite of employee initiatives to promote 19 February 2019 safe working: the implementation of risk management systems: and a communications campaign.
