HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 4 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Strategically, this has been a very To fund the DPS acquisition and I am delighted to report important year for HomeServe, in retain balance sheet strength for a that HomeServe has had which the Board has taken a series pipeline of further opportunities, another strong year, in of decisions to move us closer to HomeServe undertook its first ever which we continued to placing of equity.
The Board was achieving our vision of being the strongly in favour of asking for direct worlds most trusted provider of deliver excellent service to support from our shareholders home repairs and improvements.
our customers and further for an acquisition which clearly Organic growth augmented by business growth.
We now benefited the core of our business.
complementary acquisition is central have 8.4 million customers We were delighted to receive a clear to our strategy in pursuit of that vision.
Equally important to the effectiveness FY17: 7.8m : the Group of this strategy is the continuing retention rate is stable at In Home Experts, the Board gave development of our business model 82%: and we delivered the go-ahead to an important step with its five key sources of value a 24% increase in basic forward, with HomeServe taking partnerships, marketing expertise, control of 100% of Checkatrade in customer service, local networks earnings per share to 30.2p.
Checkatrade gives and financial resources.
In FY18 we us the foundation we need to build created four global business lines our Home Experts business in the to implement our strategy even UK and combines well with the more effectively and to leverage our digital expertise of Habitissimo in business model to greater advantage, Spain.
beyond our established Membership business.
Our four business lines are In HVAC, the Board advocated a Dividend Membership, Home Experts, Heating, measured approach, authorising Given the Groups performance this Ventilation and Air Conditioning the acquisitions of Help-Link year and the Boards confidence HVAC and Smart Home.
and Electrogaz to provide HVAC in its future prospects, the Board bridgeheads in the UK and France is proposing a final dividend of We continue to build our Membership respectively.
14.4p per share, bringing the total business in all geographies, with ordinary dividend for the year to notable success in North America.
In Smart Home the Board has 19.1p per share of 33.6p, an increase The Board took the decision to elected to focus on territory adjacent of 25%.
The proposed dividend is supplement strong organic growth to our core businesses - water 1.76x covered by adjusted earnings in North America with the acquisition leakage with LeakBot and also smart per share.
The Board operates a of the policy book of Dominion thermostat and connected boiler progressive dividend policy, and Products and Services Inc. DPS technology.
targets dividend cover in the range our largest ever acquisition.
of 1.75x 2x adjusted earnings per share over the medium-term.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 5 Chairmans statement Our global values for his service to HomeServe.
He has People HomeServe has a vibrant corporate made an outstanding contribution Underpinning HomeServes culture based on four global over the last 15 years, and in ambitious growth strategy is a clear values which define the way we do particular since his appointment focus on making sure we have the business.
By living these values, we to the Board in 2009, first as Chief right people in the right positions at have built our business on strong Financial Officer and latterly as UK every level across the Group, and foundations.
Our recent reorganisation to on giving them the knowledge and create four global business lines gave skills they need to deliver exceptional Martin the opportunity to consider performance.
To encourage his next move, and we respect his everybody in HomeServe to prioritise decision to move on.
We all wish him and value our people strategy, we Put customers at the well for the future.
created a People Committee in 2017. heart of everything we do Its work to date has reviewed insights True to our values from new disclosure, for example on As I travelled around HomeServes the gender pay gap.
It has also been offices this year, I have been instrumental in the development immensely impressed by the of our global talent strategy and everyday evidence I see of how true will play a key role in monitoring its we are to our global values.
like to take this opportunity to say Combine relentless thank you to everyone at HomeServe Board changes innovation with integrity who has gone the extra mile this year At Board level, we welcomed three and professionalism in service of our customers, partners, Non-Executive Directors Katrina communities and shareholders, and Cliffe, Edward Fitzmaurice and Ron to thank all of our stakeholders for McMillan together with one new their continued support.
We said farewell to Non-Executive JM Barry Gibson Directors Mark Morris and Ben Chairman Mingay.
I would like to extend my Strive to be the best 22 May 2018 thanks to both of them for their hard in the world at what work and insight during their time See page 12 for our business we do on the Board.
This has been a busy model.
year for the Board, and I am grateful to all of my Board colleagues for the See page 16 for our strategic dedication, challenge and expertise priorities they have brought to the Boardroom See page 20 for more on our this year.
people strategy, as part of Develop and encourage Corporate & social responsibility.
After our 2018 financial year end, great people who are we announced that Martin Bennett, passionate about taking CEO, HomeServe UK, will step responsibility and making down from the Board at the Annual things happen General Meeting on 20 July and leave the business later in 2018.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to See page 20 for how we bring take this opportunity to thank Martin these values to life through our approach to Corporate & social responsibility.
6 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 7 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 When water bills break How HomeServe solved the mystery of the rising rates HOW MUCH?
Id enough to worry about with a baby on the way.
Huge water bills were not what I was expecting.
Sky high and I couldnt see why.
They quickly found the source.
A leak had sprung under the front garden.
They dug a hole, xed the pipe.
And even put the lawn back.
Now my bills are back down to earth.
Mrs Bayliss, Walsall United Kingdom Discover how life keeps moving for our Customers at homeserve.
