10 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 11 Our Culture and Purpose WORTHWHILE FOR ALL CONCERNED Howdens was founded on the principle that its To achieve this we have to build strong and enduring business should be worthwhile for all concerned relationships with our suppliers, and work closely We dont get paid customers, prospective customers, homeowners, with them so we can offer best prices and quality and until a job is complete tenants, local communities, our suppliers, our always have stock available.
It means having great investors, our staff and their families.
suppliers who share our philosophy.
and satisfactory and that means it looks This founding principle has shaped our business It also means having motivated and well-paid good, is available locally model and our strategic decisions for more than staff.
This is an entrepreneurial, manager-driven when required, meets 20 years.
We believe in local profit-sharing and business with low central overheads.
Tradespeople incentivisation for our staff, as well as looking after are entrepreneurs.
They are not interested in, and standards, is easy to fit the fundamentals of the trade relationship and dont benefit from, a big central office.
Howdens and doesnt break offering trade terms that allow the builder to run a does not offer a huge corporate hierarchy business and make a living.
In short, creating the rather, an extremely satisfying, well-paid job for conditions that allow everyone to succeed.
Since Howdens opened its doors in 1995, we have Howdens has grown from nothing - no name, no grown in a balanced way, investing sensibly and product, no building, no staff.
Today it has more ensuring we are prepared for all market conditions.
than 690 depots, 460,000 accounts in the UK and Underpinning our success has been a lowestover 9,500 staff.
A winning formula that everyone cost and flexible approach to our production, connected with can call their own and a model that a low break-even point for our depots and an can grow.
Howdens solves problems for small builders doing Andrew Livingston joinery work.
Its about fitting into their society, not Creating the letting them down and associating with people Chief Executive Officer conditions that allow who run their own business.
Builders dont get paid everyone to succeed until a job is complete and satisfactory: that means our products must look good, be available locally when required, meet standards, are easy to fit and dontbreak.
We offer builders trade accounts which give them up to eight weeks before payment is required: we It's about fitting into give them a confidential discount, swap items on Worthwhile for all builders' society and the spot, provide a welcoming trade environment, concerned exclude retail, and retain staff.
Customers always see not letting them down the same faces.
Its about trust with our customers we do what we say.
No room for fairy We have to be very important stories to our suppliers, so we can offer best prices and quality and That means always have stock available locally having motivated, well paid staff To supply from local stock nationwide...... the small builders ever-changing, routine, integrated kitchen and joinery requirements... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 12 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 13 OUR MARKET Howdens started operations in 1995 in the UK, Our Market Consumer expectations where there are currently approximately 27 million Expectations about what the kitchen can do, and homes, of which around 17 million are owned and what we can do in it, have changed significantly 10 million are rented.
The pace of change has accelerated with the development of the internet Howdens designs, manufactures, sources and All kinds of and social media, and with a change in living styles supplies kitchens for a wide range of end-uses, and aspirations.
There is a move from kitchens as kitchens including for private rentals and social housing, standard cooking spaces towards kitchens as openas well as for all kinds of owner-occupied homes.
plan and work-space type environments.
But while we all have access to information about new ideas In 2018, Howdens sold over 4 million kitchen All sorts and innovative designs, we have less time in which to cabinets, along with 900,000 appliances, around of uses make decisions about increasingly complex kitchens.
700,000 sinks and taps, over 2.5 million doors and close to 3 million square metres of flooring.
We Recent technological advances have transformed expect that our contract division, which was started Home is the centre All types million homes the functionality and appearance of kitchens.
The in 2017, can develop and increase our business of our lives, and the of budget market demands more functionality, more choice with new build contractors, a growing area of the kitchen is the heart and more  finishes at entryin the UK UK market.
We need to make sure that we can offer 17m owned, 10m rented all of these things, and that our depots stock the The Market Backdrop right products for the changing market.
We look at The UK consumer environment has been mixed this in more detail in our CEO report on page 22. for the past three years.
2016 was impacted by an increase in UK Stamp Duty on second Dealing with complexity homes and buy-to-let house purchases, as well The growth in complexity of the kitchen means as rapid shifts in both foreign exchange rates that builders want sound advice to meet increased and in consumer confidence.
This is why we ensure have been more stable, albeit that the subdued that our depot staff are trained to the highest economic environment persisted, with the ongoing standards.
As kitchens become more complex, .
we are increasing our investment in people with specific skills, such as designers, salespeople Changing Lifestyles and managers, as well as on developing the next The kitchen is the centre of every home.
As our way generation of skills through apprenticeships.
Increasingly, we of life and our expectations change, so does the live in the kitchen kitchen, which continues to become more complex A major element of our service is the skilled and have greater functionality.
As a result, the types designers we have in each of our depots.
It takes of kitchens demanded by todays lifestyle mean that an average of three visits to a home to carry out DIY is a not a reasonable option for most people.
a survey, plan and make changes to a kitchen design and then show to a customer in our depot The level of skill required to fit a modern kitchen, presentation room.
This shows that customers due to the types of cabinets, finishes and need to deal with people who are knowledgeable appliances, as well as regulatory requirements, is aboutkitchens.
beyond many of us, and we simply dont have the time to do the work involved.
In general, there is a International markets If todays kitchens are shift towards done for you rather than DIY.
to meet expectations and While we have grown strongly in the UK, we have also standards, they must be been investigating the opportunities for Howdens in We believe that it is no longer possible to have a installed by professionals continental Europe.
At the end of 2018, we had 24 kitchen that both looks good and works properly depots outside the UK: 20 in France, two in Belgium, without the help of skilled fitters.
This is why we only A constantly one in the Netherlands and one in Germany.
The Howdens model is designed sophisticating specifically to meet their needs and we discuss it and complexing We have taken the time to understand these in detail on the following pages.
market markets and in February 2019 we announced that we are closing the operations in the Netherlands and New technology means more Germany while expanding the number of depots in choice and better finishes at France.
This will initially be around Paris, building a entry-level prices city network of depots where we know the market and can build on our customer relationships and we have the people who can develop our position.... assuring best local price, no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 14 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 15 Our Business Model Trade only 694 local OUR BUSINESS MODEL From depots Howdens is a trade-only business, selling kitchens The depot managers autonomy is a key element of and joinery to local builders and trade professionals Howdens business model.
Depot managers hire local from our 694 local depots in the UK.
We also have their own staff, do their own local marketing, set depots in Continental Europe and we discuss our local pricing, manage the level of discount applicable plans for Europe on page 23.
Each local depot to their account holders and manage their own stock operates on an in-stock basis and is normally only stock levels to suit their own local customers.
This a short drive away, allowing the builder to plan and means our distribution operation has to be attuned start a job without delays.
to the different needs of around 700 depots.
No two deliveries are alike, and each one must be correct, A typical depot currently occupies around 10,000 complete and on time.
square feet, is located on an industrial estate and costs a fraction of high street retail properties.
Our Trade accounts The depot manager current depot design costs on average 450,000 to We make our is in charge When a builder comes into one of our depots for the fit out, including 150,000 of inventory, and typically own cabinets first time, they can open a trade account which gives breaks even by year two at 700,000 sales.
them up to eight weeks before they need to pay us.
This, and the fact that we are in stock locally, means We have been looking at using new storage methods that builders can complete the job and get payment in our depots which will allow us to look to redesign from their customer before they need to pay us.
In them, including the possibility of opening new, turn, this means that we can collect our debts.
The smaller, depots that are roughly half the size of our total cost of our credit control operations, including traditional offering.
This is discussed by our CEO in bad debts and write-offs, is less than 1% of sales.
Once the builder has had an enquiry about installing We make what it makes Manufacturing capabilities a new kitchen, they can ask one of our highly-trained sense to make, and We can collect We design and manufacture all our own cabinets designers to go to the prospective customers we buy what it makes payment because approximately 4.4 million per year in our own property.
The designer will create an expert, sense to buy Howdens is always in factories in Yorkshire and Cheshire.
Other accurate plan, ensuring that everything will look stock products, including some cabinet doors and good and fit properly.
This saves the builder time, our own-brand appliances, are made to our which helps their profitability.
Both builder and their specifications and bought in from suppliers with customer can come into the local depot and see the we have invested whom we have built long-standing relationships.
kitchen displayed on a large screen via our bespoke We make what it makes sense to make, and we computer aided display software, enabling any final buy what it makes sense to buy.
changes to be made before signing off on the job.
million 220 No Both of our factories serve only one customer waste 4.5m A flexible model Yorkshire Cheshire over four years in efficiency, cabinets Howdens and so their working practices and capacity and stock availability The Howdens model is efficient, flexible, scheduling exactly match the requirements of our scalable and recoverable which means that depots.
The result is an efficient system with no when something goes wrong on a project, as it unnecessary waste, whether of time, space, or occasionally may, our local depots are empowered product.
We believe that our cabinets cost much to fix it.
Our model allows us to manage complexity less than we could source externally, providing effectively by combining efficient processes with an Howdens with a significant cost advantage.
understanding of the factors that make our world TRADE ONLY chaotic rather than orderly.
Local depots Accurate, timely distribution attuned to the different At local level, a Howdens depot opens with a needs of 694 depots manager and a small number of staff.
The manager and staff are responsible for growing their account base and their sales, and for managing their own depot margin.
Profit-sharing is calculated locally, not centrally.
Everyone is strongly incentivised to grow a profitable, local business.... and to provide the builders customer with enough choice... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
