Strategic Report Group Chairmans statement Our ability to meet our targets depends on being able to help our customers manage the present uncertainty and capture the opportunities that unquestionably exist.
This performance allows us to approve a fourth interim dividend of $0.21, bringing the total dividend for 2018 to $0.51.
The Board of Directors There were a number of Board changes in 2018.
Jonathan Symonds became Deputy Group Chairman.
Iain Mackay left the business after 11 years, with the last eight spent as Group Finance Director.
My thanks go to Iain for his dedicated service to the Group, and in particular for the integral role he played in executing the Group strategy and improving the quality of our financial Mark E Tucker Group Chairman reporting.
Ewen Stevenson joined the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 January this year.
HSBC is in a strong position.
Our performance in 2018 demonstrated the underlying health of the We said goodbye to Phillip Ameen, Joachim Faber business and the potential of the strategy that John and John Lipsky, all of whom retired from the Flint, our Group Chief Executive, announced in June.
I am very grateful to each of them for their invaluable advice and counsel.
Their departures led to a reduction in the size of the Board as part of our ongoing work to simplify, clarify and strengthen governance arrangements.
The fundamentals for growth in Asia We also cut the number of Board committees from remain strong in spite of a softer regional seven to five and simplified subsidiary governance.
I believe this creates clearer and stronger lines of authority and accountability, enabling the Board to devote more time to priority areas.
Despite a challenging external environment in We welcome the new UK Corporate Governance the fourth quarter, all of our global businesses Code, which places greater emphasis on how the delivered increased profits and the Group achieved Board considers the interests of all stakeholders in a higher return on tangible equity in 2018.
Asia its discussions and decision making, and promotes again contributed a substantial portion of the a strong internal culture.
Groups profits, notably in Retail Banking and Wealth Management and Commercial Banking.
Overall, the Group delivered reported profit before tax of $19.9bn, up 16% on 2017, and adjusted profit before tax of $21.7bn, up 3%.
4 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Chairmans statement We see the new Code as an opportunity The fundamentals for growth in Asia remain strong to further enhance our existing stakeholder in spite of a softer regional economic outlook.
The engagement, ensuring that the business as a structural and financial reforms underway across whole can continue to develop constructive the region should continue to support economic and considerate relationships with all those development.
China remains subject to domestic with whom we work.
We will include details and external pressures, but we expect it to maintain of this in the Annual Report and Accounts 2019. strong growth.
We also expect further financial liberalisation to form part of Chinas response to changing external conditions.
This will benefit domestic and international customers and investors.
The Board fully endorses the Groups The US economy and the influence of the Federal Reserve remain central to global sentiment.
We commitment to develop and support our people expect policymakers to adopt a more cautious and we offer the Group Management Board our stance in 2019, even as the economy continues to grow.
A slowdown in the pace of US interest wholehearted support in realising that ambition.
rate rises could carry positive implications for Asian economies and businesses, as well as for US growth.
Both the Mexican and Canadian Connecting customers to opportunities economies are poised to grow at a steady pace.
The financial targets that John announced in Many of our UK customers are understandably June remain appropriate, even as the global cautious about the immediate future, given the economic outlook becomes less predictable.
prolonged uncertainty surrounding the UKs exit Our ability to meet them depends on being from the European Union.
HSBC UK, our new able to help our customers manage the present UK ring-fenced bank, has an important role in uncertainty and capture the opportunities supporting our customers as they prepare for a that unquestionably exist.
Our universal banking business in France will also help provide continuity The system of global trade remains subject to to our customers in the UK and the rest of Europe.
political pressure, and differences between In Europe, as elsewhere, we are confident in our China and the US will likely continue to inform ability to help customers make the most of the sentiment in 2019.
However, the conclusion opportunities they see.
of major trade agreements including the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement There are more risks to global economic growth than this time last year, and we remain alive and for Trans-Pacific Partnership: the EUs landmark bilateral agreements with Japan and Singapore: responsive to all possibilities.
Our strong balance sheet and revenue base equip us to navigate these and the potential ratification of the US-MexicoCanada Agreement in 2019 provide important risks and, most importantly, enable us to help our customers negotiate their own paths.
counterweights that could give impetus to international trade in the year ahead.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chairmans statement Fulfilling our potential Many thanks Enabling our people to do their jobs to the best My thanks go to John and each of the 235,000 of their ability is a priority for the Board, and for people who work for HSBC.
Their hard work, me personally.
They are essential to our present commitment and talent has been key to the and future success.
The Board fully endorses the Groups progress in 2018.
Our challenge and Groups commitment to develop and support our shared purpose is to build on that good work people and we offer the Group Management through the rest of 2019 and beyond.
I have Board our wholehearted support in realising every confidence we can do so.
Our strong balance sheet and revenue base Mark E Tucker equip us to navigate these risks and, most Group Chairman importantly, enable us to help our customers 19 February 2019 negotiate their own paths.
I had the honour of officially opening the new headquarters of HSBC UK in Birmingham in December.
As well as providing a new home for the UK ring-fenced bank, One Centenary Square houses the European hub of HSBC University, our global learning and development centre.
Since then, we have opened new HSBC University hubs at our new premises in Dubai, and in Mexico City.
These cutting-edge facilities form part of our response to the complex challenges our employees now face working for a global bank in an unpredictable environment.
HSBC University aims not only to equip them with the right skills, but also to help them understand the culture that will continue to make HSBC a unique organisation.
6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
