Chairmans statement Hunting had a positive year on many fronts and the Board remains focused on delivering a sustained performance, with a number of initiatives underway to continue to improve efficiency and increase shareholder value.
John Jay F. Glick Chairman 04 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Carol Chesney and Keith Lough were both appointed I am delighted to introduce our 2018 Annual Report and to the Board in April 2018, following a thorough search Accounts to shareholders.
In the year, Hunting has seen process.
Carol Chesney was appointed Chair of the Audit very strong US onshore well completion activity in the first Committee following John Nicholass retirement in April.
three quarters, as the average WTI oil price encouraged Keith Lough was appointed Senior Independent Director operators to commit significant capital to the development following John Hofmeisters retirement in August and of new production from US shale basins.
This has resulted Annell Bay was appointed Chair of the Remuneration in Hunting reporting improved levels of revenue and Committee.
While the US offshore and international drilling markets have remained subdued, your Governance Company has focused on in-sourcing more production The Company has enhanced its governance framework in in the year, which has improved facility utilisation and the year, with the creation of an Executive Committee.
In the final quarter, momentum Committee comprises the executive Directors and regional within onshore US basins slowed marginally, impacting managing directors of each of the Groups operating on the Groups onshore businesses: however, this was segments.
mitigated, in part, by the increase in demand for other product lines.
In the year, the Board also completed its third externally facilitated effectiveness evaluation.
More information on Financial Performance this process can be found in the Governance section of Revenue for the Group increased 26% in the year to this report.
$911.4m, compared to $724.9m in 2017, leading to an underlying profit before tax of $104.0m 2017 $11.5m.
The Board has noted the publication of the new UK Reported profit before tax was $74.7m 2017 $ 27.6 m loss.
Corporate Governance Code in July 2018.
Compliance initiatives are underway, which will include new employee Net cash at the year-end increased to $61.3m engagement initiatives to be introduced across the 2017 $30.4m, which was another excellent result.
This Company that will be reported to the Board throughout leaves Hunting with a strong and flexible balance sheet to the year.
I am pleased to announce that Annell Bay has meet the demands of the current market environment.
agreed to be the Companys designated non-executive Director for employee engagement matters, as Dividends encouraged by the new Code.
Annell is located in the At the Groups half-year results in August 2018, the Board US where the majority of our workforce resides.
Annell declared an interim dividend of 4.0 cents per share, which will be working with management to ensure suitable was paid in October 2018. arrangements are put in place during 2019, ahead of Hunting reporting its new compliance in next years Given the sustained performance of the Company Annual Report.
throughout the year, compared to the prior year, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.0 cents per share Conclusion absorbing $8.2m of cash, for approval by shareholders at Hunting had a positive year on many fronts and the Board the Companys Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2019. remains focused on delivering a sustained performance, If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 10 May 2019, with a number of initiatives underway to continue to to shareholders on the register on 23 April 2019. improve efficiency and increase shareholder value.
This distribution will bring the total dividends paid in On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our respect of 2018 to 9.0 cents per share or a distribution stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, of $14.8m.
customers and suppliers, for their support during the past year.
The Board remains committed to delivering sustainable dividends, but will continue to assess each dividend proposal on a case-by-case basis.
Board Changes Changes to the Board took place during the year, with John Nicholas and John Hofmeister retiring after nine John Jay F. Glick years service.
We thank them both for their wise counsel Chairman and commitment to the Group through the challenging times the Company has faced.
Results for the year, as reported under IFRS, adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets recognised as part of a business combination and exceptional items.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 05
