02 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement 2018 another year of important progress We delivered results ahead of market expectations and continued to execute our strategy effectively.
Continuous improvement now Throughout the year the Board has had the firmly established opportunity to spend time with our employees on a number of occasions.
In April I participated in our As we enter the final year of our five year plan it is senior management conference.
This is an annual an appropriate time to reflect upon the significant event over 2-3 days involving 300 of our business progress that has been made to date and the work leaders from across the Group and is a valuable that remains to be done.
opportunity to discuss all aspects of the business Our culture has been transformed.
Later in the year we also held our October business that, as a matter of course, strives for Board meeting at Bimbas University Park facility continuous improvement and recognises the near Chicago.
Although Bimba joined the Group only significant opportunities that flow from ever in January, the team there has embraced our increasing operational efficiency and productivity.
continuous improvement culture with great This mindset is fundamentally important and, enthusiasm and our Lean processes are already now embedded throughout the Group, it will support becoming apparent throughout the business.
the delivery of our overall strategic goal the The Board also took the opportunity to visit IMI CCI Lord Smith of Kelvin creation of long-term, sustainable value for our RSM in California.
During our visit we toured the site Chairman shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
and learned about the continuous improvements being made across the business as well as its plans During the year we improved our health and safety to expand the product offering to gain market share.
performance in a number of areas.
The total number We were also shown remote inspection technologies of LTAs lost time accidents reduced more than 20% provided by IMI and increasingly accepted by and following the launch of a targeted campaign, customers as a means by which the product the Group delivered a reduction in hand injuries approval process can be made even more efficient in the year of over 40%.
by reducing unnecessary site visits by engineers.
The Chief Executives review on page 12 and the operational reviews on pages 28 to 33 provide more Board and Governance details on the recent progress made in each of the During the year two new non-executive directors Groups three divisions.
Whilst some of the markets joined, bringing considerable and relevant we serve did offer some support to our performance experience as well as fresh perspectives to the during the year, elsewhere we did face a number of IMI Board.
Thomas Thune Andersen joined the economic and trading challenges.
Strengthening our Board on 1 July 2018 and also became a member business, and in particular our market competitiveness, of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
to make the Group more resilient regardless of market Thomas has extensive knowledge and experience conditions, continues to be a key priority.
in some of the key sectors we operate in, including oil, energy and critical infrastructure.
Katie Jackson In relation to geopolitical uncertainty, we have also joined the Board on 1 July 2018 and became developed a number of Brexit related contingency a member of the Nominations and Remuneration plans, including building long lead-time inventories Committees.
Katie has deep knowledge of the to mitigate supply chain interruptions in the event international Oil & Gas market, and significant of increased border controls, or delays in obtaining corporate finance and business development clearance to and from the UK.
Further information about Thomas and Katie, and the other members of the Board, Our people and culture is set out on page 52 to 53.
Our people around the world remain key to our success and they have contributed significantly We acknowledge the introduction of the 2018 to the progress we have made during the year.
UK Corporate Governance Code and during the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all year we took appropriate steps to prepare for of our employees for their continued hard work compliance with the new requirements which and commitment.
came into effect from 1 January 2019.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 03 Lord Smith receives a demonstration of remote inspection technology at IMI CCI RSM, which allows customers to access the facility remotely to inspect equipment during assembly, test and final inspection.
In November 2018, we announced the Under Marks leadership IMIs market position Precision Engineering and, since 2011, Divisional appointment of Birgit Nrgaard as non-executive has been significantly enhanced.
The Groups Managing Director of IMI Critical Engineering.
director with responsibility for workforce infrastructure has been modernised, its The Board is delighted to appoint Roy as IMIs engagement.
This important role, which is in operational performance radically improved next Chief Executive.
He is a strong and line with the revised Codes recommendations, and its customer offering refreshed.
As a result, experienced successor who has been pivotal will build on the various mechanisms we IMI is now a much more robust and sustainable to the Groups continued success.
He has already operate to ensure we continue to business.
On behalf of the Board I would like extensive operational experience, deep engage effectively with our people.
to thank Mark for his leadership, drive and knowledge of our core markets and commitment.
He has made a significant outstanding leadership qualities.
We have also revised our corporate governance contribution to the Group, and while fully framework and the business cycles for the Board Dividend respecting his decision to return home to retire, and its committees to reflect the 2018 Code and we are very sorry to see him go.
We wish him Reflecting the continued confidence in the appropriate training has been provided to the Board.
well in his retirement back in Australia.
Groups prospects, the Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 3% to 26.0p Chief Executive succession Roy was appointed following a comprehensive 2017: 25.2p making a total dividend for the global search process that included both internal Mark Selway will be stepping down as Chief year of 40.6p, an increase of 3% over last and external candidates.
Roy joined IMI in 1988 Executive at the Annual General Meeting in May years 39.4p.
and has been a member of the Board since and retiring from the Board on 31 July 2019.
He has held senior management roles He will be succeeded by Roy Twite, currently in all parts of the Group including President Divisional Managing Director of IMI Critical of IMI Hydronic Engineering, President of IMI Engineering.
