Company Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In my fourth year as Chairman of IG, I am pleased to report that, against a backdrop of intense regulatory scrutiny of our sector, the business has performed extremely well.
The Company has delivered record revenue, profit and earnings.
The past year has been both challenging and successful for IG.
I am proud of the operational performance of the business this year, and of the strategic progress we have made.
In an industry that has been tainted by the poor practices of some providers, IG has maintained its focus on championing the client and treating our clients fairly at all times.
As the global market leader, we believe this approach is a real differentiator for clients choosing IG, as well as being central to creating long-term shareholder value.
I would like to thank Peter Hetherington and the Executive team for their hard work, skill and leadership over the year.
The people of IG are our greatest asset.
They live by our values and have worked with skill and energy to set us on a path to future success in the new regulatory regime.
At the same time, they have delivered a very strong set of results.
BOARD ANDY GREEN Following an extensive process, supported by external consultants, I am very pleased to welcome Bridget Messer and Jon Noble to the Board, following As Chairman, I am proud of the their appointment on 1 June 2018.
The IG knowledge and skills brought by Bridget operational performance of the and Jon to the Board will complement the considerable experience of Board business this year, and also of the members and help give a wider perspective to Board discussions.
strategic progress we have made.
Bridget was appointed to her current role as Chief Commercial Officer in September 2015, and is responsible for the Groups strategy for attracting prospects to IG, as well as managing and developing IGs client relationships.
Bridget joined IG in 2005 as Legal Counsel, and during her first ten years at IG she undertook a number of roles, including General Counsel, Head of Compliance and Company Secretary.
02 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info for future dialogue, both internally and Jon was appointed Chief Information 33.51 pence per share, taking the externally.
Over the medium-term we Officer in 2012, and as such has been full-year dividend to 43.2 pence per all recognise that good regulation of responsible for setting and delivering the share, 34% higher than the prior year, our sector offers opportunities that Groups IT strategy, and for the stability in line with the increase in earnings.
IG is well placed to capitalise on.
and security of IGs technology.
Under his stewardship, IG has consolidated IGS PEOPLE LOOKING FORWARD its reputation as a leader in technology This year, I have been encouraged and innovation, providing a secure to see the business continue on its The last 18 months have been a and innovative client experience.
journey to becoming more diverse.
challenging period in our Company, but We are increasing the number of our operating and financial performance REMUNERATION women undertaking accelerated has been strong.
As we set out in our development programmes to Outlook Statement on page 14, the We seek to maintain a remuneration prepare for senior positions, and Company expects that its revenue in structure which creates a balance have an increasingly international the 2019 financial year will be lower between rewarding performance against annual objectives and delivering workforce that spans the globe.
than in 2018, reflecting the impact of sustainable shareholder value.
We the regulatory changes in the UK and are mindful of the interests of clients, As a market-leading, innovative financial EU, and the Company expects to return employees and broader stakeholders in services company that delivers through to growth after the 2019 financial year.
This year, we reviewed advanced technology, we are driven The Board intends to maintain the the Directors Remuneration Policy and byour people.
They have a diversity of 43.2pence per share annual dividend concluded that it continues to meet thought and a love of what they do, which until the Groups earnings allow the the needs of the Company.
As always, is crucial for our ability to continue to lead Board to resume progressive dividends.
we will keep the Policy under review.
Initiatives like the rollout of our company values and the In the medium term, I believe that the Our senior executive remuneration introduction of our new award scheme initiatives we are putting in place now, arrangements continue to work well, show the importance we place on our coupled with our peoples commitment andthe very strong performance people.
We have added a new strategic to innovation and championing the client, oftheGroup this year is reflected in objective attract, develop and retain will see IG extend its industry-leading appropriately increased reward for our the best people to ensure continued position and become even stronger.
senior team and higher bonuses across focus on this at the Board and across the business.
DIVIDEND As with last year, the ongoing regulatory uncertainty has created a difficult In line with the previously stated backdrop.
Over the past 12 months Andy Green intention to pay out, as an ordinary people in the business have approached Chairman dividend, approximately 70% of the the challenges of regulatory change with Groups annual earnings, the Board creativity and professionalism.
I believe 24 July 2018 is recommending a final dividend of this work has laid a strong foundation I believe that the initiatives we are putting in place now, coupled with our peoples commitment to innovation and championing the client, will see IG extend its industry-leading position and become even stronger.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 03
