CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Welcome to our 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
This was an important year in which we delivered pleasing results in tobacco and significantly enhanced our position in Next Generation Products.
MARK WILLIAMSON Chairman Our purpose is to create something better for the worlds smokers and As part of this process, we realised 281 million from the sale of I am delighted with how this is being brought to life in Imperial.
There a portfolio of other tobacco products in the USA and a further is a tangible sense of excitement about how our Next Generation 9.99per cent of our European distribution business Logista, Products NGP operations are developing and the contribution our reducing our holding to 50.01 per cent of Logistas issued share products are making to the global harm reduction agenda.
In total we expect divestments to generate proceeds of up to 2 billion within the next 12-18 months.
Many smokers currently continue to choose to enjoy tobacco and we will keep providing them with the high quality products they expect.
GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Our Governance Report on pages 35-55 provides an overview But our aim is to increasingly transition smokers to our NGP portfolio, which consists of products that are significantly less harmful of our governance framework and the work of the Board and than cigarettes.
Vapour is by far the largest and most developed NGP category High standards of governance are integral to our long-term and we have made excellent progress in expanding our presence sustainability and the Board remains focused on ensuring Imperial with our blu brand during the year.
I was also pleased to see us is governed and managed in an open and transparent manner.
achieve further share gains in priority tobacco markets with our The responsible way we run the business is also reflected in Growth Brands, which together with our Specialist Brands, now our Sustainability Review.
During the year we refocused our account for 67 per cent of the Groups tobacco net revenue.
sustainability strategy to more closely align it with the Group GROWING RETURNS FOR SHAREHOLDERS strategy and our expanding NGP operations.
These good brand and market performances are reflected in our An overview of the progress we are making against our financial results.
On a constant currency basis we grew tobacco sustainability priorities is set out on pages 30-34, with more and NGP net revenue by two per cent and adjusted operating detailed information available on our corporate website profit by three per cent.
In addition, reported operating profit www.
com increased by six per cent at actual rates.
Cash conversion was strong at 97 per cent and we increased the dividend by 10 per DELIVERING FUTURE GROWTH cent for the tenth consecutive year.
The progress we made this year has put the Group in a strong position to deliver growing returns for shareholders and I would The Board recognises how important the dividend is to many like to thank our employees around the world for all their hard shareholders and regularly reviews the dividend policy to work and support.
ensure it is aligned to performance, the balance sheet and the investment needs of the business.
Our strong cash flows Our operating environment is changing and we are changing too, underpin our dividend pay-out and investment needs, and our transforming into a leaner and more agile business that looks to dividend policy is to deliver annual 10 per cent growth over the the future with confidence.
Our global cigarette share is relatively small and we therefore CREATING ADDITIONAL VALUE see NGP as an additive financial opportunity for the Group.
This We have developed a greater focus on the products, brands and is an exciting new chapter for Imperial and we look forward to markets that are essential for delivering long-term sustainable growth.
delivering continued quality growth intheyears ahead.
We have also identified assets that are less central to our strategic agenda, which we can exit or divest onbehalf of our stakeholders to simplify the business, enhance our focus and allocate capital effectively.
MARK WILLIAMSON Chairman 2 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
