STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FUTURE TRENDS CHAIRMANS WELCOME The Board spends considerable time looking at the longer-term outlook in the global automotive industry.
This is a time of considerable change in our industry, with some major disruptive trends looking likely to change the way cars are purchased, used and maintained in the NIGEL medium to longer term.
These include electrification of the drivetrain including more battery electric cars: shared STEIN ownership: and autonomous or self driving vehicles.
All of these being enabled by a high degree of digital Chairman connectivity inside and between vehicles.
Inchcape is working closely with its OEM partners to evaluate how these changes will impact our automotive markets, how we can benefit from them and what risks we must guard against.
Nearer at hand are changes already taking place in the way our customers choose to interact with Inchcape, with most now using digital channels to evaluate the model they would like before they ever visit a showroom.
We are stepping up our investment in digital capability to ensure Inchcape keeps an attractive and competitive online presence.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, GOVERNANCE I was honoured to be appointed Chairman of Inchcape Inchcape prides itself on a strong governance culture, at last Mays annual general meeting, succeeding recognising that in a business spread broadly across Ken Hanna in the role.
Ken had served on the Board emerging markets and with new acquisitions, this for 17 years, including nine as Chairman, playing cannot be taken for granted.
During the year several a significant part in Inchcape being the successful governance processes were refreshed and a new Code company it is today.
On all stakeholders behalf, of Conduct and Employee Handbook issued, supported I thank him for his contribution and look forward by an extensive training programme.
to taking the Company forward on the next stage of its constant evolution.
BOARD CHANGES 2018 TRADING A strong and relevant Board with skills which add to the Companys wider experience is an important asset.
Inchcape had a resilient trading performance in 2018, In that connection we were pleased to welcome Jane a year which saw challenging conditions in several Kingston who joined the Board in August 2018.
Janes automotive markets, with lower demand in the UK and background and previous career are set out in detail Australia particularly impacting our results.
The Group elsewhere in the Directors Report.
Her expertise is already performed well in its other markets, keeping sales overall proving useful to our team.
moving ahead and pre-exceptional profit before tax only slightly lower.
Employees across Inchcape worked Nigel Northridge, the Senior Independent Director, extremely hard to deliver this result and I sincerely thank is standing down from the Board at the AGM after more them for their efforts.
I would like to thank Nigel for his excellent contribution to the Board over those years.
The STRATEGY Board has approved the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann Since assuming my role, I have taken the opportunity to succeed Nigel Northridge as Senior Independent to visit several of the Groups larger markets.
Further details are given on page 66.
I was impressed by the capability, commitment and enthusiasm of the Inchcape teams I met and noted their LOOKING AHEAD strong support for the Ignite strategy, which is bringing The anticipated softening of demand in a number increasing benefits to the bottom line.
of major markets and the potential economic impact of Brexit in the UK and Europe will create a challenging Progress against the five drivers of the Ignite strategy backdrop to 2019.
Despite this we expect Inchcape is covered elsewhere in this report, but at a time of low to deliver a resilient underlying performance.
growth in Inchcapes main markets, successful execution of those initiatives will be increasingly important to The strengths of the Groups business model, its exposure oursuccess.
to high growth markets, strong partnership with leading OEMs and weighting towards Distribution, together with As is clear from the results, Inchcapes business is a strong focus on cost control, will help us to respond increasingly weighted towards the Distribution segment.
tothe current challenges and position us well for the The Board believes this is a more resilient market position yearsahead.
than a purely Retail presence, although it recognises the importance of demonstrating Inchcapes Retail credentials to its global OEM partners.
Future investment and capital expenditure are therefore planned to be more weighted to our Distribution than Retail segment.
Nigel Stein Chairman Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1
