Strategic Report Chairmans Introduction Derek Mapp Chairman A year of delivery, combination and creation 4 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements View from the Board: expansion and scale What led the Board to endorse GAP created a Group Informas 2018 expansion plans?
The Boards view was that Informa had the potential with greater balance and to create significant value for Shareholders as well as opportunities for colleagues and other partners breadth and this positive through adding the UBM business.
We knew the business well and believed it was a good fit, with its complementary brands, similarities in culture and momentum has given values, and a comparable recent history of change and growth.
The progress made through GAP and the your management team effective integration of Penton Information Services had also increased our confidence in Informas and the Board the capability to combine the businesses effectively.
What role has the Board played so far?
As ever, the Board represents the interests of Shareholders and other stakeholders by overseeing the Groups activities, guiding the management team and challenging plans where appropriate.
The Directors provided support and input to the leadership team with its decision making during the offer process, assessed integration plans and received regular progress reports in Board meetings and through informal conversations in between.
Board members also engaged with Shareholders and colleagues.
I attended ReInvent, a gathering of around 100 leaders from across the enlarged Group, in July, answering questions and getting direct feedback on how the new Informa Group was coming together.
I am delighted to have the opportunity to address Informa Shareholders and colleagues, and to express my thanks for Did the Board have any concerns about the combination?
their support, hard work and commitment through 2018.
The impact on colleagues and our culture was foremost in our minds.
Informa is a people business, and we knew It was another busy and productive period that saw the Group an effective outcome would rely on the engagement, report a fifth consecutive year of growth in revenue, profits, support and efforts of all those in each business.
It was cash flow and dividends.
It was also a year when we took a critical that combining the businesses would ultimately considerable step forward in our future growth and ambition add to the experience and opportunities available to by adding UBM to the Informa portfolio.
colleagues, rather than unduly disrupting or stretching teams.
Diligence gave us comfort that the business From GAP to the AIP cultures were aligned, and further work has been done The Informa Group has progressively and consistently evolved to more fully understand what is important to colleagues over the past five years.
Through the 2014-2017 Growth and build a set of common principles and ways of Acceleration Plan GAP, the Group was reshaped, restructured, working for everyone in the Group.
What is the Boards focus for 2019?
GAP created a Group with greater balance and breadth and this Aside from our ongoing wider responsibilities and positive momentum has given your management team and the maintaining the focus on colleagues and culture, it is Board the confidence to do more.
It directly led us to push for to make sure we complete the AIP effectively and deliver further scale in 2018, when adding UBM provided a unique on our Shareholder promises by meeting our synergy opportunity to build on the progress made through GAP and targets and pursuing revenue opportunities.
At the enhance the Groups international breadth and depth in same time, we will work to ensure the Group continues specialist markets, particularly in exhibitions.
to deliver consistent underlying growth and performance in each of our businesses, capitalising on our strengths and the progress made through GAP.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 Strategic Report Chairmans introduction continued David Wei joined the expanded Informa Board during 2018 Twelve months later and well into our Accelerated Integration Plan AIP, the Board remains confident that this step will deliver real long-term value and opportunity.
Following a period of intense activity, the AIP is ahead of schedule with key decisions on leadership and structure implemented.
The Group is on track to deliver its cost synergy targets, and as it starts to operate as a single enlarged business, the benefits of increased scale and industry specialisation will also come through new revenue opportunities.
New brands and depth in customer markets One of the early decisions made within the AIP was to reorganise and rename our Divisions as Informa Markets, Informa Connect, Informa Intelligence, Informa Tech and Taylor & Francis, as described on page 8.
As we expand internationally, this approach aligns the enlarged As Informa has expanded business more closely behind the Informa brand, and these more descriptive divisional names provide our Divisions with in 2018, so has the Board, greater commercial flexibility.
Our Academic Publishing Division, which has long gone to market as Taylor & Francis, is conducting a separate brand review to understand how it welcoming two long-term might also adapt its approach in what is quite a distinct market.
appointments in David The AIP has also enabled the Group to increase its focus on specialisation and serving individual industry communities.
Wei and Mary McDowell This approach has now been adopted at a divisional level through the launch of Informa Tech, a market facing business who bring invaluable that brings together all our exhibitions, events, information, data, media and marketing services brands serving Technology, international experience Media and Telecoms TMT under one structure and leadership.
in Asia and North In recent years, this increasingly vertical approach to customers and markets has delivered consistent improvement in growth America respectively.
In 2018, the Group reported underlying revenue growth of 3.7%, up from 3.4% in 2017 and 0.7% in 2014, the year GAP launched.
Total revenues were 2.4bn and adjusted earnings per share grew 7% to 49.2p, with free cash flow reaching 503.2m, a figure that was 237.2m back in 2014.
Shareholder returns and governance Over the last five years, as Informa has reaped the benefits of growth and more predictable performance, we have progressively increased our annual dividend growth from 2% to 4% and then to 6% in 2017.
Following the Groups continued progress in 2018, we have continued this commitment by proposing a final dividend for the year of 14.85p per share, bringing the total 2018 dividend to 21.90p, a year-on-year increase of just over 7%.
It remains a priority to share the benefits of growth and our strong cash generation by taking a progressive approach to dividends, and 6 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I am delighted Informas continued performance in the past year Creating opportunities in 2019 and beyond has enabled us to do this.
Over recent years members of the Board have spent a considerable amount of time with Shareholders, discussing As Informa has expanded in 2018, so has the Board, welcoming Informa, its performance, leadership and expansion plans two long-term appointments in David Wei and Mary McDowell, amongst many other topics, including on our recent Annual who bring invaluable international experience in Asia and North Engagement Roadshow, described on page 114.
The overriding impression we have been left with is excitement Greg Lock also joined as Deputy Chairman for the period of the about the potential of the enlarged Informa Group, and belief AIP to ensure a smooth transfer and transition for colleagues and and confidence in the management team.
To deliver on this businesses.
Greg will step down at the Annual General Meeting potential will require another year of hard work in 2019, in May and on behalf of the Board I thank him for his valuable maintaining focus and delivery across each Division, as we contributions, both during the creation of the enlarged Informa complete the AIP, deliver our synergy targets and further adapt Group and in his wise counsel since.
to make the most of our increased reach and strengthened market positions.
I know the team is fully committed to this.
As 2018 testifies, we regularly review the shape, size and composition of the Board to ensure it has the skills and resources to govern The Board remains equally committed to meeting our prior effectively, and more information on the Boards developments obligations to deliver the first full year of the enlarged Group, during the year can be found on page 98. and so while acknowledging the latest guidance within the UK Corporate Governance Code, we all remain focused on supporting Part of the Boards role is to stay abreast of wider economic and the leadership team to make this a reality.
It is a privilege to be part geopolitical trends that could impact the Group and so we have of this unique, dynamic and ambitious Company and I look forward been closely monitoring the potential for disruption from the to seeing it move from strength to strength in the year ahead.
UKs exit from the European Union.
While we remain vigilant, Derek Mapp there is little direct exposure and we do not believe there are material risks for the Group.
The Groups increased international Chairman scale and breadth means we are better placed than ever to 6 March 2019 manage individual market turbulence.
Mary McDowell joined the expanded Informa Board during 2018 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7
