06 Strategic Report | Chairmans statement Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement Continuing to deliver Financial performance on track Inmarsat continued to perform well operationally revenue growth of 5% and financially in 2018, however, headwinds in Revenue growth was up 5% year on year yoy while EBITDA was up 4% yoy.
EBITDA margins the sector generally and challenges in our were steady at around 53% however profit after tax was down 32% yoy.
Maritime end market continue to cast a shadow EPS was 27 cents per share.
Significantly, over significant growth in the Aviation and revenue from our new Global Xpress constellation rose by 85% to over $250m, which bodes well for Government business sectors.
This has certainly the expectations that came with this investment affected our share price performance.
However, and is on track for our annual revenue growth target of $500m by the end of 2020. the Management and Board believe that the significant investments made over the last Global Xpress GX constellation proving to be growth catalyst five years will continue to positively develop, With the significant yoy revenue growth from GX, supported by contributions and thus enhance, the Groups future financial from Government, Maritime and our Aviation performance and, consequently, returns to sectors, the GX programme is seeing significant acceptance across a broad and diversified our shareholders group of customers.
With a world leading position and a head start over other commercial satellite players in this rapidly emerging global mobile broadband satellite opportunity, Inmarsat is well positioned to be a leader in these markets as they grow.
Our investment thesis was and is that broadband demand in Aviation, Government and Maritime in geographic areas where terrestrial networks cannot function, will continue to offer superior profitable growth opportunities for Inmarsat.
Early indications are beginning to validate this thesis.
Disappointing share price performance dividend reduction and other factors Four developments have clearly put negative pressure on our share price in 2018.
Firstly, we announced a significant reduction in our dividend with our 2017 Results announcement.
We did this responsibly, to manage our balance sheet in light of risks to cash generation coming in the future from our US Ligado contract and other programmes which were in process.
In addition, we needed to accommodate the ongoing capital investment requirements of the business, driven by our Global Xpress growth.
We also wanted to ensure that our shareholders continued to be appropriately rewarded through a stable, albeit reduced, level of annual dividend payments.
Secondly, our Maritime business continues to see pressure due to the ongoing recession ANDREW SUKAWATY in the commercial shipping industry, as well CHAIRMAN as increased competition in the mid-market segment, where we have by and large maintained market share in recent years, However, these dynamics have negatively affected pricing and cash flow overall.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Chairmans statement 07 Thirdly, investors are concerned about the to build its market share and invests to support This year we had an external assessment overall telecoms sector, due to regulatory, this, it must also demonstrate to shareholders of Board performance conducted by an technological and competitive risks, as well as that the investment will pay off.
We understand independent third party.
See page 73 in the continued significant investment in infrastructure, this and intend to begin demonstrating the report on Corporate Governance for more combined with a slowing growth profile across financial performance to investors as the detail.
Overall the conclusion was that the the sector.
various segments stabilise and bed in.
Board continues to operate effectively and appropriately and challenges management to Within the telecoms sector, some concerns ensure thorough debate and consideration on Board evolution and remain about overcapacity in the global issues of significance.
Areas for improvement performance assessment commercial satellite sub-sector, particularly in are shown in the Corporate Governance Report.
Inmarsat continues to evolve our Board structurally challenged services, including fixed membership to maintain a capable diverse video and telecoms.
While these are markets in Group that contributes to our strategic thinking,  which Inmarsat does not generally operate, as maintains high standards in our reporting changes proposed in light of 2018 we are focused on mobility services, our share integrity, meets governance standards and shareholder vote price tends to track those of the fixed operators, challenges management regularly and On the back of both the dividend reduction and which are directly impacted by these market forces.
We are delighted to welcome the share price decline, we received a second Fourthly, our Global Xpress constellation Tracy Clarke as a new director in 2019.
Tracys negative vote on our Annual Remuneration remains at an early stage of development, biography is included on page 63 and the criteria Report.
As a result, we consulted with as Rupert outlines in detail in his review.
Therefore, used for her selection on page 73.
We welcome shareholders during the course of 2018 and in while significant investment has been made, her global management experience, working early 2019 to determine their specific concerns particularly in the newly emerging IFC segment in emerging markets, plus her previous Board and to address them.
As a direct result of these in Commercial Aviation, Inmarsat needs to experience and Remuneration Committee consultations, we are proposing a set of significant demonstrate to shareholders its potential for knowledge which will enhance our capabilities changes to update our remuneration policy profitability and cashflow generation, as our as a Board.
and take on board comments from shareholders.
position in the market develops over time.
In addition, we have recognised the ability of the Board evolution is an ongoing process.
Board, through the Remuneration Committee, Guidelines have changed during the course to exercise its discretion to ensure that the Proposed takeover offer of 2018.
One area of change is in the tenure payout outcomes are in line with shareholder from EchoStar rejected of Chairs for UK listed companies.
Details of these changes are As a publicly listed company, Inmarsat aware of this and during the course of 2019 will contained in the Remuneration Report on is open and committed to exploring engage, through the Nominations Committee, page 81. opportunities to create value for shareholders.
to determine the optimal way to address When approached by EchoStar during the this for the Company.
As Remuneration norms and standards change course of 2018, we responsibly considered in the future, we will endeavour to make regular their conditional proposal in light of Inmarsats We would also like to pay our respects changes to meet investors needs, as well as stand-alone risk adjusted prospects and to a former Director, Kathleen Flaherty, the needs of the Company to motivate and concluded it was not in the interests of our who sadly passed away this past year.
We believe that the commercial satellite sector is likely to see consolidation in the future and management and the Board remain open to consider strategic options which would enhance our shareholder returns.
Aviation growth accelerating , Our core values  to be demonstrated We ARE Inmarsat with a core set of values that guide and shape Inmarsat continues to build a significant the way we work, behave and respect each other: order book for installations of both Global Xpress and with growing interest in our new European Aviation network.
Installations are occurring at an accelerating pace.
This is happening in Commercial Aviation, Government Aviation and in the Business Jets markets.
We believe that we have a market leading service to deliver Wi-Fi on aircraft globally.
However, since this is a market for a new improved service, investors are rightly Accountability Respect Excellence questioning its future potential to generate We take ownership, get We collaborate, We create bold solutions profits and cash flow.
While Inmarsat continues results and deliver on our embrace diversity and for our customers.
promises to our customers value differences.
Quality is at the heart and each other.
08 Strategic Report | Chairmans statement Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement continued Board oversight of managements The Board is humbly proud of what Inmarsat Company culture development offers as a commercial business, as well as Inmarsats culture has been driven from the the public service it provides to countless beginning of our creation, to serve the world by users in time of need.
delivering highly reliable communications day I would like to thank our staff for their in and day out, because our customers depend considerable hard work and commitment to on us, often for their lives.
This is a commitment supporting Inmarsats business.
We cannot that is embedded in our culture and is shown on do this alone and our distributors, customers, the previous page in the values of Accountability, manufacturers and wider ecosystem all play Respect and Excellence.
Beyond this management a significant role in our combined success.
has engaged in numerous programmes to Thank you too to our shareholders, many ensure we are both in a good place to work of whom have been so since our IPO in 2005. and responsible corporate citizens in the We thank you for your ongoing support of ever-changing social environment in which our business.
This shows itself in our employees training programmes and in our diversity and development programmes.
We have active ANDREW SUKAWATY networks for women in Inmarsat and a LGBT CHAIRMAN group.
We have recently launched our Global Advisory Workforce Panel in response to the 18 March 2019 FCA workforce Board engagement regulations.
In addition we work closely with Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF and International Telecommunication Union ITU UN agencies to support humanitarian aid at the time of disasters globally.
Management continues to improve and evolve the way we efficiently and responsibly operate as our business moves forward.
The Board will remain engaged in an oversight capacity to ensure this continues.
Thank you for our 40th year Throughout our heritage, as we enter our 40th year, we have served those in need of critically important communications, often where there is no other means available.
This remains a very strong purpose for us now and in the future.
Through our maritime safety systems recognised by the International Maritime Organization IMO and our close work with the International Mobile Satellite Organization IMSO and in aviation, the International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO, to the ongoing support we give to TSF for their work in responding to disaster relief and the work they do in disaster areas, our commitment remains to public service alongside our commercial activities.
