STRATEGIC REPORT Christopher Munro Non-Executive Interim Chairman CHAIRMANS Overview The Board STATEMENT The last twelve months have been an Partly in connection with the fl otation, exciting time in the life of our company.
we have made some important changes After 19 years of hard work, we listed to the Board over the past year.
on the London Stock Exchange LSE We were sad to lose the services of our this year.
The listing was well chairman, Patrick Snowball, in August received by investors, with the share who was required to relinquish the price closing on the fi first day of chairmanship after accepting an offer trading at a signifi cant premium to from Provident Financial PLC which the issue price.
precluded him from continuing in Ian comments on the key fi financial this role for us.
I thank Patrick for results in his Chief Executives Report his sound advice and leadership and more detail is provided in the throughout the listing process.
Strategic Report that follows that, We have now initiated the formal but it is pleasing to highlight that the search process for a new Chairman.
Group has had another fruitful year We are delighted to welcome and made considerable progress.
two new non-executive appointments to the Board.
Victoria Cochrane has accepted the role of Flotation Senior Independent Director and IntegraFin Holdings plc IHP listed brings a wide range of experience on the LSE on 2 March 2018 and in the fi financial services industry.
soon after listing, became included in Caroline Banszky has also accepted the FTSE 250 Index.
No new capital the role of Non-Executive Director was raised, this being an exercise in and brings further insight from the creating shareholder liquidity, but we fi financial services industry.
The intent were pleased to welcome many new is that Caroline will be chair of the shareholders to our register with a Audit and Risk Committee of the roster of credible investment names main Board after the AGM.
acting indirectly as a pleasing I would like to take this opportunity endorsement of our proposition.
to pay tribute to our founder Since we fl oated, there have been and ex-chairman, Mike Howard.
more platforms listing and we are IntegraFin is the product of Mikes seeing the creation of a newly emerging foresight in identifying an important platform sector in the market.
gap in the investment universe and, 2 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 with Ian and his teams help, We believe our remuneration scheme capturing that opportunity.
Mike has is fair to both shareholders and staff contributed clear and strategic and reflects our advised platform thinking and enormous energy space in the financial services industry.
over the last nineteen years.
I am delighted he remains an integral part of Team Transact as an executive Dividend Director of IHP.
The Board is declaring an interim dividend of 6.4 pence per ordinary share 2017: 5.9 pence per ordinary Governance share.
A pre-listing special dividend The Board has always recognised was paid to shareholders in January the importance of good governance.
2018 of 3.4 pence per ordinary share.
We appreciate our continued success The Board maintains a dividend is reliant on a well-defined corporate policy of distributing 60% to 65% and ethical culture across the Group.
of post tax profits subject to market As a Non-Executive Director and more conditions and consideration of recently as your Interim Chairman, exceptional items.
I have been impressed by the quality and experience of the various subcommittees which ensure that our Closing company maintains high standards in both governance and risk oversight.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our colleagues Pleasingly, the Board now demonstrates for their hard work throughout the a better gender balance with the past year.
It is through their exhaustive recent appointments of Victoria and efforts that these excellent results, Caroline and I am encouraged with along with the successful flotation our Companys performance in of the company, have been made relation to our gender pay gap.
We are extremely fortunate to have such a dedicated and talented team.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committees Report on remuneration is set out Christopher Munro on page 56.
Non-Executive Interim Chairman The principal changes this year are 12 December 2018 the introduction of a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Performance Share Plan PSP.
These will be awarded to staff based on their performance and the companys performance, both over the previous year.
Share awards are an excellent method for employees to participate in the success of the company and we hope that as many of our staff as possible will engage in these schemes.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 3
