Directors' Report | Chairman's introduction CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION The Board is committed to long-term sustainable growth through a combination of revenue growth and returns on investment to drive shareholder value underpinned by strong corporate governance.
Sir David Reid Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER these developments.
We noted the publication of the 2018 UK As you will have seen from our Strategic Report, Intertek Corporate Governance Code 'new Code' and the issuing of the continued to execute well and deliver on its strategic priorities in Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulation 2018, which 2018 focusing on Total Quality Assurance solutions underpinning updates the Companies Act 2006, both marking the culmination our customer centricity.
Organic growth of 3.7% at constant rates of the Governments suite of governance reforms aiming to build was the highest in five years, we improved margins for the fourth trust in business.
consecutive year and cash conversion was once again over 125% The Board is strongly supportive of the revisions to the Code and with net debt of 778m and a good performance on return on the approach to refresh the existing framework, given the impact invested capital at the year end.
This cash flow and a strong on wider society and the greater corporate responsibility large financial position provide us with options to create sustainable organisations have in an ever-evolving environment.
The new shareholder value through our disciplined capital allocation policy.
Code is effective from 1 January 2019 and steps have been taken We invested 113m in capital expenditure and in addition made to ensure implementation during the year.
four acquisitions for a total cost of 389m, the most significant The Board is already committed to providing focus and upholding being Alchemy, based in the US, a leading software provider in high standards of corporate governance in areas relating to People Assurance solutions for the food industry that will further corporate culture: diversity: strengthening the stakeholder voice accelerate the growth momentum of our Assurance Business in and adopting appropriate remuneration structures.
We hope that the US and also our international network.
this is evidenced through both the Directors and Strategic Reports.
In 2018, our progressive dividend policy saw us return 128m BOARD CHANGES to shareholders through cash dividends.
We aim to deliver On 22 August 2018, we welcomed Ross McCluskey who was sustainable dividend growth over time, and announced in March promoted to the Board as Executive Director and Chief Financial 2018 that we would increase the dividend payout ratio to circa Officer, succeeding Edward Leigh.
We thank Ed for his significant 50% from 2018.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of contribution to our performance over his five years with the Group.
67.2p bringing the total to 99.1p for the full year 2018, an increase of 39% compared with 2017.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring the effectiveness Your Board has maintained its commitment to achieving the of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
highest standards of corporate governance.
But governance Recognising the many attributes required of an effective goes well beyond simple compliance with codes and regulations.
Board, focus has been given to our own composition and It is about culture, practices and how our people act.
It is about the diversity this represents.
It is about ensuring that our values are embedded and upheld throughout the organisation.
It is As announced last year, the evaluation and performance review a strong framework and means we have a Board that both of the Board was undertaken with the assistance of an supports and challenges the executive team.
It is critical independent party, Lorna Parker.
I am pleased to report that the underpinning for generating long-term value and benefit for evaluation concluded that the Board operates effectively, with all stakeholders.
each Director making significant contributions to debate and discussion.
Further details on the outcome of the evaluation The aim of this report is to provide shareholders and other and its process can be found on pages 78 and 79. readers with a clear perspective of your Boards approach to corporate governance, how we have complied with the 2016 Through the annual evaluation process and the work of our UK Corporate Governance Code 'Code and the work of the Nomination Committee, we have reviewed and challenged where Board and its Committees during 2018. appropriate our succession plans, the skills and knowledge required by the Board now and in the future, and relevant CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS developments including the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Since 2017 the focus on corporate governance in the UK has Reviews and the revision of the Code.
continued to evolve and the Board has paid close attention to 66 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report PEOPLE IN THIS SECTION The new Code encourages boards to ensure the voices of our employees are heard in the boardroom and we fully endorse This report provides an insight the moves to stimulate engagement with our workforce.
This engagement is highlighted in the table on page 77 showing into how, through its actions, the site visits by Non-Executive Directors.
I meet employees the Board and its Committees when I visit our operations 12 businesses in the past two years having open conversations, listening to what they have to say have fulfilledtheir governance and report back to the Board.
These meetings have confirmed that we have world-class people at the core of our business.
I am responsibilities throughout 2018. constantly impressed by their contribution, drive and commitment to our customers and admire their sense of responsibility and focus on improving performance which is so important to LEADERSHIP Interteks ongoing growth and success.
Read more on page 68 We are of course very aware of the role of the Board in promoting and supporting diversity in all its forms throughout Intertek, as well as the Board and Executive Management Team.
Your Board EFFECTIVENESS fully supports the principles and has implemented the Read more on page 76 recommendations of the Parker Review on ethnic and cultural diversity.
We recognise our obligation to society and that the quality and diversity of our people are key to understanding the ACCOUNTABILITY needs and serving the communities in which we work.
We firmly Read more on page 83 believe that a diverse workforce is a key foundation and can be a competitive advantage of our business to ensure we deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
REMUNERATION SUSTAINABILITY Read more on page 89 Sustainability is at the heart of our business 'bringing safety and quality to life' and accordingly we set our five Group Sustainability priorities in 2017 and put in place two integrated networks and SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT reporting structures to keep the Executive Management Team Read more on page 108 and the Board updated.
In 2018, we continued on the journey to improve our sustainability performance by focusing on the environmental footprint of our operations, development of our people, our work with local communities and progress against the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
And we have continued to provide services to our customers to improve the sustainability of their businesses through our industry-leading Sustainability value proposition.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We have maintained a comprehensive engagement programme with shareholders throughout the year.
The detail is outlined on pages 108 and 109.
This year we are putting to shareholders a new Remuneration Policy and have been actively consulting with shareholders as set out in the Remuneration Report in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on page 89 and 90.
The views of our shareholders are essential to the Board and it is important that we understand these when considering strategic options available to the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank our CEO Andr and all his team, my Board colleagues and all our employees for their hard work during the year and our shareholders for their continued support.
Sir David Reid Chairman Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
