4 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS AN INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN ANOTHER STRONG YEAR OF GROWTH Fundraising continues to be excellent as investors have trusted us with their funds due to our sustained strong investment performance KEVIN PARRY OBE CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER environment supporting growth in company The momentum in the business supported earnings, provides a favourable market an increase in our average annual fundraising This has been a strong year of delivering backdrop for alternative asset managers.
target to 6bn previously 4bn per our strategic goals, with record We always overlay our disciplined investment annum over a three year rolling period and fundraising and record fund management culture to market conditions with an an increased operating margin target in the profits.
Your Board is focused on objective of meeting or exceeding clients fund management business of above 43% delivering sustainable shareholder expectations commensurate with their risk previously above 40%.
value without compromising our ethical appetites in each of our strategies.
In the standards and our responsibilities to the The profits of the Investment Company in financial year, we invested 4.9bn across Groups stakeholders.
reporting periods will fluctuate with mark our direct investment funds to provide to market valuations, but over the years, Business developments financing to companies to support their the net investment returns will bear a close growth, ownership transition and day to day Our strategy and operational focus is to correlation to our investors returns where working capital needs.
Alongside our funds, grow our specialist asset management on average we seek to meet or exceed a the Investment Company invested 0.6bn franchise.
We do this by growing our existing rate of return of 11% per annum on invested proportionately to its commitment to the strategies whilst at the same time continuing capital.
Investment Company profits have, relevant strategy.
Our portfolios continue to innovate and pioneer new strategies that as expected, normalised as the prior years to perform well which bodes well for future increase diversification by asset class and result included a one off recycling of capital fundraising success.
Our balance sheet capital is both gains from reserves.
an enabler and accelerator of growth and As at 31 March 2018 21.6bn The earnings per share were 88.8p is only invested to support the delivery of 2017: 18.3bn of our total assets under 2017: 74.5p.
management had been invested leaving 7.1bn 2017: 5.5bn of third party capital Dividend We raised a record 7.8bn of new assets available for future deployment across under management during the year, In accordance with our dividend policy, the our strategies.
including 5.4bn in successor funds for asset management performance has allowed Senior Debt Partners, North American the Board to recommend a final dividend Earnings Private Debt and Real Estate Senior Debt.
of 21.0p per share 2017: 19.5p equating The total pre-tax profit for the year was In addition, we raised 2.2bn across our to a total for the year of 30.0p per share 199.1m 2017: 252.4m comprising capital market strategies validating the 2017: 27.0p.
The 11% increase represents 95.3m 2017: 74.0m in our fund investment made in this asset class in recent 110% of the post-tax profits of the Fund management business and 103.8m years.
The weighted average fee rate was Management Company and is covered 3.0 2017: 178.4m in the Investment Company.
0.86% compared with 0.91% in the previous times based on total earnings.
Strong fund raising, a healthy investment year.
The change in the average rate reflects and realisation pace and sensible cost the mix of funds currently being managed.
control, whilst still investing in our business, The long term structural trend of increasing increased the fund management operating investment into alternative asset classes profit margin to 45.4% 2017: 41.2%.
combined with the positive macro economic ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We continue to make the dividend Consistent with our asset management The review reflected the completion of reinvestment plan available.
peers, it is evident that, although we are the Groups transformation to a specialist comfortable that we are rewarding both asset manager which has recently been When we updated our dividend policy genders fairly, our senior investment recognised by FTSE Russell reclassifying last year, our objective was to ensure that positions are held predominantly by men.
the Company as an asset manager.
the dividend would be fully covered by We are introducing measures to encourage the fund management profits within three Your Board believes that high standards women to progress within the business years.
The continued growth of our Fund of corporate governance contribute to but recognise that this may take time to Management Company means we now value creation and will continue to pursue show results.
expect to do this ahead of schedule, in the high standards for the benefit of our current financial year.
The Board re-confirms The success of ICG depends on stakeholders.
Further details on governance its progressive dividend policy, normally collaboration and expertise across the matters are set out on page 38. paying out between 80% and 100% of the investment, distribution and infrastructure Outlook earnings of the Fund Management Company teams, and I would like to thank all of our staff The Group is well positioned to take as dividends.
for their contribution to our business over advantage of favourable conditions for the course of the year.
Management and people specialised asset managers.
Our strategy Governance The change in Chief Executive following of continuing to increase diversification last years AGM has progressed well.
The Board has been extensively refreshed by asset class and geography We continue to invest in our investment, over the last two years.
This year we remains unchanged.
distribution and infrastructure teams welcomed Stephen Welton, Amy Schioldager We have made an excellent start to the new in line with the planned growth in the and Andrew Sykes as Non-Executive fundraising year, including 2.6bn from business whilst also ensuring we improve Directors.
Andrew will succeed Peter Gibbs European Fund VII and the final close of operating leverage as we grow assets as the Senior Independent Director at this our North American Private Debt Fund.
years AGM, when Kim Wahl and Peter We anticipate 2018 19 will be another strong both stand down from the Board having The Chief Executive has widened the fundraising year, and in aggregate will be completed their terms as Directors.
management team that advises him, and above our long term average target of 6bn the Chief Financial and Operating Officer, I am very grateful to Kim and Peter for per annum.
to ensure they receive strong advice and their long service to the Board and the We continue to source attractive deals support from senior managers across considerable contribution they have made to in a competitive investment climate and the Group.
the success of your Company.
As Chairman anticipate being able to deploy all of the of the Remuneration Committee and, Shareholders approved our new uninvested funds raised in previous financial since 2016, Senior Independent Director, remuneration policy at last years AGM.
years over the course of the relevant Peter has been responsive to shareholder The revision to the policy simplifies a number investment periods, so increasing our fee feedback and has contributed extensively at of aspects of the relevant schemes whilst earning assets under management.
a crucial stage in the Groups development.
not increasing the proportion of profit paid Both Peter and Kim have provided The Strategic Report, on pages 2 to 36, as bonuses to staff.
This year average staff valuable insight to the Board in their areas has been approved by the Board of remuneration increased by 6% reflecting the of expertise, notably as accomplished Directors and is signed on its behalf by: success in fundraising, deployment of capital investors.
The Board wishes them all the raised and the overall progress of the Fund best for the future.
Total shareholder CHAIRMAN return in the year was 43%.
Further details Following the AGM, the Board will comprise 21 MAY 2018 are in the Remuneration Committee report two Executive Directors and seven Nonon page 68.
Executive Directors, of which 33% are female.
Half of the Boards four committees Although we were not required to publish are chaired by women.
Further details of our gender pay gap data by 4 April 2018, the Board and its committees are set out on having fewer than 250 UK employees, in pages 38 to 92. the interests of transparency, we plan to voluntarily disclose our gender pay gap To coincide with the changes in executive statistics for 2018 on our website over and non-executive directorships, the the summer.
Board has undertaken a detailed review of the terms of reference of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
