Strategic Report Chairmans summary 10 Market 12 Business model 16 Our strategy 18 Our strategy in action 20 Key performance indicators 22 Chief Executives operational review 24 Portfolio review 27 Portfolio review: Life sciences 32 Portfolio review: Technology 34 Portfolio review: Multi-sector platforms 36 Financial review 38 Risk management 44 Sustainability 56 08 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 9 12 04 2019 17:09:19 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS SUMMARY 2018 was a year of consolidation for the Group.
Sir Douglas Flint Chairman 2018 was a year of consolidation for IP Group as it bedded By way of illustration of the impact of IP Group, with your down its acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc support, the Group has invested more than 850m to date in Touchstone and navigated public investment markets that the UK in science and technology and created more than 300 were not particularly favourable towards smaller technologycompanies which, in aggregate, have raised approximately focused companies, given broader market uncertainties.
Through these endeavours, we calculate Therefore, realisation opportunities at valuations that made more than 5,000 jobs have been created across the UK.
sense were limited, given the Groups assessment of longIn addition, the Groups portfolio companies are, from the term potential.
Encouragingly, our longer-term valuation outset, truly international in outlook, as technology has perspective was reinforced by a number of third-party few national boundaries, so projecting the Global Britain investments into and partnership collaborations across a positioning that will be increasingly important to the UKs number of our most important portfolio companies during future trading success.
Our portfolio companies as a whole raised 695m, the highest annual total so far.
Alan Aubrey will cover these in One simple illustration of this in 2018 was the 7m investment more detail in his report.
by portfolio company Ceres Power in a new, state-of-theart manufacturing facility in Redhill in the UK, creating 60 This is my inaugural report as Chairman of IP Group, having new jobs as demand, largely from overseas, for its low-cost, taken over the role in November last year.
I want to record next-generation fuel cell technology expanded.
Alongside on behalf of shareholders and the Board our gratitude to my this, as part of a broader strategic collaboration with Weichai predecessor, Mike Humphrey, for his commitment and wise Power, one of the leading automobile and equipment counsel, initially as a non-executive director upon joining manufacturing companies in China, Ceres Power announced the Board in October 2011, before becoming Non-executive a joint venture for a major new fuel cell manufacturing facility Chairman in March 2015. in Shandong, China, subject to completion of successful trials.
Technology is reshaping the world at least as significantly as Alans operational review, which follows, highlights the other the geopolitics which attracts so much media attention.
This key events during the year within the Groups portfolio.
is increasingly apparent in areas where technology leadership commands global market dominance or has strategic Financial performance implications.
But it is also the key to addressing some of the The Group had a disappointing financial performance in 2018, worlds most pressing challenges in disease prevention and the most significant driver of which was share price declines mitigation, in the transition to a less carbon intense energy of a number of AIM-listed portfolio companies.
2018 was world and in productivity improvement.
These are all core the first year for a long time that the worlds major equity areas of focus within IP Group with its focus on backing and markets all declined, with the FTSE 100 down 12%, FTSE AIM building world-changing businesses, based on innovative down 19%, the S&P 500 down 10% and NASDAQ down 8%.
This focus is enabled through Chinas A share market fell by 12%.
collaboration with the science and engineering departments of leading universities in the UK, the United States and Australasia.
Read about our performance on page 125 10 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 10 12 04 2019 17:09:20 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Given the long-term focus of the Groups business, Heejae Chae, Chief Executive of AIM-listed Scapa Group plc, managements key financial performance indicator was appointed as Non-executive Director in May.
He brings to remains Hard NAV and this is the core element of the the Board considerable experience both from the perspective incentive portion of directors remuneration, as approved as a CEO of growing businesses and in finance, having spent by shareholders.
At the end of 2018, Hard NAV amounted the early part of his career at The Blackstone Group and to 1,217.5m, a reduction of 5.9% over the year, with the Credit Suisse First Boston.
Mr Chae has degrees in Economics fair value of the portfolio broadly flat at 1,128.2m 2017: and Engineering from Columbia University and an MBA from 1,099.8m.
In terms of financial performance for the year, Harvard University.
the Groups Return on Hard NAV was negative 75.6m 2017: Our people positive 64.1m.
It is important to recognise that, as the Groups business model is long-term in nature, fluctuations in A key focus for the Board is recruitment and retention of portfolio company valuations and results are to be expected.
the talent needed to drive long-term sustainable success The Group ended the year with a strong balance sheet with for the Group.
As we integrated Touchstone into the Group gross cash and deposits of 219.0m 2017: 326.3m.
it reinforced the imperative to create an environment of collaboration, co-operation and collegiality, but also one that The Board remains focused on actions that will bring the encourages challenge and questioning, given the high degree Group into a more sustainable position and has taken of ambiguity and uncertainty that surrounds the world of steps to streamline its operations following the Touchstone technology and life science investment.
Following modest headcount reductions and other combination synergies, such as The culture we aim for at IP Group is necessarily rationalising duplicated professional adviser and similar costs entrepreneurial while being collaborative, reflecting the during 2018, on 28 February 2019 we agreed to transfer back Groups purpose of evolving great ideas into world-changing to Imperial College their Technology Transfer Operations.
As we partner with academic institutions, it this way we have reduced both cost and complexity in the is critical that we have a highly-skilled workforce who Groups business.
We also began the process of slimming the can work constructively in partnership to help foster the portfolio, disposing of a number of smaller investments.
IP Groups core values of being passionate, pioneering and principled guide the Given these operational changes, the current macroeconomic behaviours the Group wishes to see not only in its general climate and the recent performance of the Groups portfolio, endeavours but also in its interactions with all stakeholders.
considerable Board focus was directed to the carrying value We believe that these values and behaviours have of goodwill on the Groups balance sheet, the significant contributed positively to the portfolio that we have built over majority of which arose from the nil-premium, all-paper many years and we will be exploring how we refine and build acquisition of Touchstone and it was clear that this should be on them to deliver future success.
I have been particularly written off.
Although the resulting non-cash charge does not impressed by the quality and enthusiasm of IP Groups team impact the Groups key performance indicator of Hard NAV, and their overwhelming ambition to make a difference to the which has always excluded goodwill, this action resulted in world through building the companies of the future.
an overall reported IFRS loss for the year of 293.7m 2017: profit 53.4m.
It is also worth reiterating at this point that Outlook the strategic rationale for the Touchstone acquisition, i. e. that IP Groups portfolio is both well diversified and maturing of scale, liquidity and a more balanced portfolio by sector and we remain confident that it will deliver appropriate and and stage of development, remains sound.
meaningful returns for stakeholders over the medium to long term.
I would like to thank our staff, academic partners and Governance and the Board portfolio companies for their commitment and contribution At Board level, there have been a number of changes this during the year as well as our shareholders for their year in addition to the departure of the previous Chairman, continued support.
Mike Humphrey, following his indication earlier in the year that he wished to retire.
Sir Douglas Flint Sadly, we also said goodbye to Professor Lynn Gladden Chairman during 2018 following her appointment as Executive Chairman of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council EPSRC in October.
She left the Board at the end of September and I would like to express on behalf of shareholders and the Board our thanks to her for her dedicated service since joining the Board in 2014.
Read about our governance on page 68 11 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 11 12 04 2019 17:09:20 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 MARKET The purpose of IP Group is to evolve Challenges facing both the developed great ideas into world-changing and developing world today One of IP Groups core beliefs is that overcoming many businesses.
of the worlds common problems will require multiple IP Group is a leading intellectual property commercialisation scientific solutions.
The common challenges facing both company which focuses on evolving great ideas, mainly from the developed and developing world include issues such as its partner universities, into world-changing businesses.
The ageing population, climate change, resource scarcity, energy Group has pioneered a unique approach to developing these availability and storage, rapid urbanisation, health challenges ideas and the resulting businesses by providing access to and increasing digitisation.
Historically, many of the solutions business-building expertise, capital through its 100%-owned to these global problems have come from fundamental FCA-authorised subsidiaries IP Capital and Parkwalk research and development R&D carried out in the worlds Advisors, networks, recruitment and business support.
leading research universities and institutions.
IP Group The Directors consider that the Group is operating and believes that this will continue to be the case and therefore competing in two major areas.
Firstly, the Group competes the Directors feel that the Groups model, of helping for access to great ideas with significant commercial commercialise cutting-edge science, is of real importance, potential.
The Group primarily sources these ideas from a having real impact.
network of world-leading academic research institutions, with many of which we have built a long-term partnership.
Secondly, the Group competes for capital to develop these great ideas into viable businesses against other investment opportunities.
While the market for capital is very broad and deep, the Groups companies are typically seeking earlierstage and development risk capital.
indd 12 12 04 2019 17:09:23 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Through the activities of both the Group and its portfolio companies, we have the potential to influence all of the major global challenges addressed by the UNs 17 Sustainable In total, the Group has access Development Goals, which are aimed at achieving a better and more sustainable future for all.
In particular, there is to R&D emanating from concentration around six of the SDGs, notably, 3 Good 29 universities or research Health and Well-Being, 7 Affordable and Clean Energy, 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, 11 Sustainable institutions around the world Cities and Communities, 12 Responsible Consumption and comprising 14 in the UK, six in Production and 13 Climate Action.
Please see the table graphic on pages 56 to 57.
For example: the US and 9 in Australasia.
SDG 3 Good Health and Well-Being is addressed by companies in our life sciences portfolio.
SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy is addressed by portfolio companies such as Ceres Power and First Light In this context, these remain extremely uncertain times both Fusion.
economically and politically, particularly in the UK, in the wake of the UKs vote to leave the European Union, as well as 3.
SDG 13 Climate Action is addressed by many of our the economic policy changes made, and under consideration, cleantech portfolio companies such as Ceres Power, in the US.
Global growth for 201819 is projected to remain C-Capture, First Light Fusion, Dukosi and Spinetic.
steady at its 2017 level, according to the International The search for solutions Monetary Fund.
It is predicting global growth at 3.7% for 201819, noting that downside risks to global growth have IP Group partners with major leading research institutions in risen in the past six months and the potential for upside countries where research is produced.
The Group has three surprises has receded.
As more fully described in the Risk areas of geographic focus: the UK, the US and Australasia.
Management section on pages 44 to 56, while the ongoing In total, the Group has access to R&D emanating from European Union exit negotiations may have an impact on 29 universities or research institutions around the world the Groups business, management have taken mitigating comprising 14 in the UK, six in the US and nine in Australasia.
actions in recent years, including diversification of access IP Group accesses intellectual property from universities to both research and capital.
The Group has operations, whose academic staff have published more than 15% of the portfolio companies and co-investors in the US and worlds Top Research and the Directors therefore believe Australasia.
In addition, the Group has taken steps to broaden the Group is the international market leader in the emerging its shareholder register and now counts several large global university IP commercialisation sector.
investors among its shareholder base.
The Groups core business remains the UK although IP Group does, however, continually assess potential opportunities in Global research landscape other territories that satisfy its criteria including long-term Globally, the US remains the worlds largest R&D investor partnerships with leading research institutions and good with approximately $476.5bn of R&D expenditure in 2016 access to both capital and entrepreneurial talent.
according to data from the UNESCO Institute for Statistics.
This exceeded R&D performed in the Peoples Republic of Economic backdrop China $370.6bn and Japan $170.5bn, the second and third The overall economic backdrop has a significant bearing largest performers respectively.
In the EU, Germany recorded on the Groups ability to pursue its strategic objectives.
In the highest R&D expenditure at $109.8bn followed by France the shorter term, financial market volatility and investor risk $60.8bn and the UK at $44.2bn.
appetite impacts access to capital for the development of spin-out companies, which in turn, can affect the likelihood of achieving exits and can influence the periodic valuations of holdings in portfolio companies.
Over the longer-term, Government spending on fundamental R&D as well as policy support towards the commercialisation of IP are key areas affecting the Groups business model.
Top Research classied as the top 10% of publications most frequently cited from the top 200 universities by volume of such publications, 20132016, based on data from the Leiden University Rankings 2018.
Includes partner relationships with top 200 UK, US and Australasian universities including Oxford and Cambridge through Parkwalk managed alumni funds and strategic holdings in Oxford Sciences Innovation and Cambridge Innovation Capital and University College London through interest in UCL Technology Fund.
