Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman We live in an era of increased scrutiny and governance for public companies.
Quite rightly people ask, what are we for?
2018 saw ITV demonstrate its resilience in Customers Dividend per share p ordinary atesting year for UK plc.
ITVs share price First, we deliver compelling programmes 8.0p has not reflected the many achievements and entertainment to our viewers and we report on here, affected as it is by consumers in the UK and around the world.
political and economic uncertainty in the For the third year running we have increased UK.
But beyond that Carolyn McCall, a year our share of viewing, with hit dramas, in as Chief Executive, hit the ground running entertainment and sport which strike with her strategy furthering our creative an emotional and cultural chord with our culture, modernising our advertising mass audience.
This is underpinned not 3% YoY offering, developing more direct just by BARB viewing gures, but also by relationships with our consumers and acareful qualitative research dialogue.
0.2p establishing a data-led business to drive And increasingly well be building increase our growing online services.
All of this relationships directly with consumers.
in 2018 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 addresses the structural challenges of this digital era and converts them into ITV has always partnered with brands, to opportunities.
She reports on More than whom we offer demonstrably effective TV later.
and safe advertising and sponsorship opportunities.
These are increasingly We live in an era of increased scrutiny and informed by enhanced data insights.
But governance for public companies.
Quite our major customers also include broadcasters rightly people ask, what are we for?
and platform owners in the UK and A good way of answering this is to look to internationally via our growing production our stakeholders.
Who are they and have company, ITV Studios.
They rely on our wedelivered for them?
ITV has five broad quality content to drive their own viewers, groups with which we connect: subscribers and revenues.
6 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1.6 2.6 3.5 4.7 6.0 7.2 7.8 8.0p Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chairmans Statement Eat them to defeat them is ITVs bold new advertising campaign inspiring people to eat better.
Shareholders Legislators and Regulators We remain very focused on delivering value A key principle of post-war Britain has been to our shareholders and Carolyns clear the free and universal provision of the strategic plan More than TV will do highest quality public service television, this.
We consult our major shareholders enabling everyone to participate in the regularly.
This included a Capital Markets lifeof the UK, regardless of means or Day in September, 2018. geographical location.
This is a fundamental part of bringing the UK together which is Weve been explaining how were more important than ever.
Of course we Butterfly was a three-part drama broadcast on ITV in 2018, and brought in strengthening ITV to ensure its well deliver our legal and regulatory obligations an average audience of 3.7 million viewers positioned to address the opportunities and but we deliver much more civic value than and an average share of 15%.
challenges of the digital media landscape.
We do all this with Reflecting our solid operating performance nopublic funding and continue to work in 2018 and the Boards confidence in the closely with politicians, policymakers business with its strong cashflows, were andregulators, not least to sustain the At the end of 2018 Ian Grifths retired as proposing an 8p dividend, up 3%.
commercial freedoms that enable us our Chief Operating officer and Chief tocontinue playing this role.
Financial officer after more than a decade Citizens of excellent service and leadership.
We As the largest commercial broadcaster in Colleagues thank him and wish him well in the future.
the UK, ITV reaches millions of people on At the heart of ITV and its success is our And we welcome Chris Kennedy as Ians adaily basis through our channels and strong creative and commercial talent.
successor, with his wealth of FTSE 100, online services.
Our huge and varied output Werun our business in a way that nurtures media and direct to consumer experience.
reflects society and our significant reach an engaged and inclusive workforce.
gives us the opportunity to enrich the Thismeans attracting people from all Im pleased to report the arrival of two new national conversation.
This has included social and cultural backgrounds to work recruits to our plc Board: Duncan Painter is inspiring people to eat better with the with us, enabling everyone to be their best.
aserving FTSE 250 chief executive and ground breaking campaign for vegetables And via our network of Ambassadors we has a critical knowledge of data-led Eat them to defeat them, motivating maintain a close conversation with our enterprises, particularly in the eld of children to take more exercise with 6,000colleagues globally.
Edward TheDailyMile, encouraging the nation to Bonham Carter joins as Senior Independent preserve and plant native trees through We strive to ensure that our workforce Director, inwhich role hell deploy his TheQueens Green Planet campaign reflects the diverse make up of modern lifetimes expertise in the financial sector, orraising awareness of health issues, society.
This is reflected in our gender both as anexecutive and as a shareholder.
suchasmental health with Project 84. balance with around 50% of our workforce being female and almost half of our Finally Id like to thank all our ITV colleagues As a Public Service Broadcaster we also workforce outside London.
And our for their sterling contributions in a year of havean important role to deliver properly workforce is also increasingly outside change.
One thing doesnt change, of course: resourced, trusted and impartial national the UK.
We now have four network groups we all still want compelling entertainment, and regional news and current affairs.
actively supporting diversity ITV Embrace we all like to be told great stories.
And at ITV Thisiscritical to democracy, more so than is our BAME network: ITV Balance is our we believe we have a good story to tell.
ever in this internet era of rumour and work-life network: ITV Pride serves as our paranoia.
And were investors in Britains LGBT network: and The Womens Network.
Sir Peter Bazalgette growing creative economy, with our We were also pleased to be singled out by Chairman substantial production bases in Manchester, the most recentHampton Alexander report Leeds and London, our network of regional as the sixth best performer in the FTSE 100 newsrooms and our training programmes for gender diversity in our combined for the nextgeneration of talent.
In short, Management Board and direct reports were investors in civil society we make team andthe fourteenth best performer content with a public purpose.
