CHAIRMANS STATEMENT PROFITABLE GROWTH AND LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS In a year that offered plenty of opportunity for distraction, the focus of our very talented workforce on the key drivers of our business delivered the performance improvement demonstrated in the second half of the year.
space and 299 new locations, taking the total for the Group to I am pleased to report that after a challenging start to the year our business responded in a strong and positive manner, 3,306 locations as at 31 December 2018.
In improving the to deliver a continuous improvement in performance, breadth of our offering, we have strengthened our position to particularly during the second half of the year.
Finishing the meet the growing demand from our customers globally.
year in such a way provides a very encouraging platform We remain encouraged by the strong development of our newer for 2019. centres which validates the Groups strong focus on capital During the year, the attractiveness of our business was allocation discipline.
This discipline has allowed the Group to highlighted by the significant levels of interest expressed by maintain a robust financial position, which was further several organisations in potential offers for the Group.
In the strengthened post the year-end with an increase in our event, our Board unanimously determined that shareholder Revolving Credit Facility from 750m to 950m and an value would be maximised by executing upon our strategy as an improvement in the maturity profile with strong support from independent public company.
This is driven by our confidence our lending banks.
Based on the strong cash generation of our in the long-term value of the business and our unique position business we returned 93.9m during the year to our in a high-growth industry.
We believe we are at the most shareholders through a continuation of our progressive exciting point in a 30-year journey that has seen us become the dividend policy and the repurchase of shares.
outright global leader in the co-working and flexible workspace STRATEGY sector.
This industry is fast becoming mainstream and benefiting We offer a variety of attractive workspaces through a range of from powerful global trends that drive long-term demand from brands that respond to different customer needs and are every area of the market, from freelancers to global enterprises.
continuing to rapidly expand our national networks to provide Looking at our results for 2018, Group revenue increased from an even broader choice of convenient working locations.
We are 2,352.3m to 2,535.4m, an increase of 9.7% at constant confident that the approach of offering this uniquely broad currency.
Revenues from all our open centres increased 13.3% choice in type and location of workspace combined with our at constant currency to 2,483.1m from 2,229.9m.
The efforts to continuously improve the customer experience and improvement in the growth rate of these revenues as we moved enhance our digital platform are the right actions to maintain through the year was particularly pleasing.
The 8% constant our strong leadership position in the rapidly growing co-working currency decline in operating profit to 154.1m 2017: 163.2m and flexible workspace sector.
was in line with our expectations, reflecting a strong year of Our focus in 2019 and for the foreseeable future remains on investment in both our network, marketing and our people to achieving and sustaining the profitable growth that will allow us support growth and improve our customer experience and drive to continue investing in the customer experience, our digital greater scale benefits from our business model.
We also incurred platform, and the development of our employees while significant costs related to the potential offers for the Group.
delivering strong returns to our shareholders.
To achieve this, Reflecting the attractive structural growth dynamics of our we are focusing more closely on partnering deals with property industry and the capability of our proven business model to owners and investors.
We are also strongly promoting deliver profitable growth, we continued to build our global and opportunities for partners to share in the growing success of our national networks with the addition of over 6.8m sq.
ft. of new network across the world, and we have an excellent pipeline in 20 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS developing and developed markets alike.
We see this as a very We offer a variety of attractive workspaces important growth tool for IWG, and we will be placing even more emphasis upon it during 2019 and beyond.
through a range of brands that respond Our approach during 2018 was highly successful in markets to different customer needs and are around the world.
Total revenue growth in the US, which is our continuing to rapidly expand our national largest market with 1,014 locations, was over 10% at constant networks to provide an even broader choice currency and profit growth was even stronger.
Total revenue growth in EMEA was particularly good with a 17.1% increase at of convenient working locations.
We were also delighted by our progress in the Asia Pacific region, with double-digit revenue growth across our Mature businesses in Japan, Hong Kong and the Philippines.
 LLPs larger clients address and As previously highlighted, our business in the UK has faced act upon complex business challenges and opportunities challenges in recent times.
We took corrective actions to in the United States and internationally.
Laurie advised over address these challenges which negatively affected our 20 Audit Committees of large public companies and private financial performance during 2018.
We are focused on equity backed entities, including Fortune 100 financial completing the revitalising of our UK operations through further services companies.
selective closures, refurbishing sites where we wish to remain I would also like to thank our former Chief Financial Officer and and investing more in customer service.
Although this will Chief Operating Officer, Dominik fide Daniel, for his contributions continue to have a short-term financial impact, these are the during his time at IWG.
right actions to stimulate long-term profitable growth in the UK.
This is supported by the highly encouraging performance of our OUR PEOPLE new locations in 2017 and 2018, particularly that of our new In a year that offered plenty of opportunity for distraction, the Spaces sites in London.
Overall, even taking the potential focus of our very talented workforce on the key drivers of our impact of Brexit into account, we remain positive about the business delivered the performance improvement demonstrated medium to long-term future of the UK market.
in the second half of the year.
Their energy and commitment are at the core of our ability to improve the performance of our OUR BOARD existing business while continuing to deliver strong growth.
The Board was very active during 2018 and performed strongly Their tireless work and creativity are key to our efforts to ensure throughout what was a very eventful period for the Group.
I that our over 2.5 million members in over 110 countries have would like to thank all my Board colleagues for their significant a great day at work.
time commitments and valuable contributions in addressing the challenges the Group faced and efforts towards creating an At our senior leadership conference in Rome during January exciting future for the Group.
2019 there was a new and more intense level of enthusiasm for the future plans of the Group and a sense of pride in being on I would like to welcome Eric Hageman as our new Chief the team of the market leader in our exciting and rapidly Financial Officer.
Eric brings us highly relevant expertise and growing industry.
I see the effects of this enthusiasm and efforts experience gained in Chief Financial Officer roles at Telecity reflected every day at every level of the Group and on behalf of Group and Royal KPN.
Eric performed strongly as our interim the Board would like to personally thank everybody involved for Chief Financial Officer and will be an excellent long-term their continued contributions and commitment to succeed.
addition to the management team.
A new role has been established with responsibility for Board DIVIDEND engagement with employees and I am delighted that Nina We continue with a sustainable and progressive dividend policy Henderson has agreed to take this role as well as taking over that reflects both our confidence in the long-term prospects of the Board oversight for the Groups corporate responsibility business and our desire to reward shareholders for their loyalty.
Ninas knowledge, experience and passion for these We are therefore recommending a 10% increase in the final areas makes her well suited for these roles.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at After nine years on the Board, Elmar Heggen will resign as a the 2019 AGM, this will be paid on 24 May 2019 to shareholders Non-Executive Director with effect from our annual general on the register at the close of business on 26 April 2019.
I would like to thank Elmar for his represents an increase in the full year dividend of 11% to good counsel, meaningful insights and recommendations over 6.30p 2017: 5.70p.
We are pleased to announce that Laurie Harris will join IWG as a Non-Executive Director of the Company DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND and succeed Elmar as Chair of the Audit Committee.
The CHAIRMAN appointment will take effect from 14 May 2019 and is subject to applicable law including shareholder approval at the 6 March 2019 Companys forthcoming annual general meeting.
Laurie has significant executive leadership and boardroom experience.
She currently serves as an Independent Director and Audit Committee Chair of the board of directors of QBE North America, an integrated specialist insurer.
Previously, Laurie was with  LLP as a Global Engagement Audit Partner where she helped 21
