02 Strategic Report Chairmans In a competitive market, underlying letter profits before tax have returned to growth, increasing to 589 million.
Encouragingly, although underlying The combination with Asda basic earnings per share were offers a significant opportunity for downfor the year asa whole, we customers, suppliers, colleagues achieved a rise of eightper cent and shareholders to benefit from inthe second half.
David Tyler Chairman 2017 18 highlights 10.2p 8.4% Proposed full-year Return on capital dividend employed 20.4p 432m Underlying basic Free cash flow earnings per share In a retail marketplace that remains as competitive as ever, we believe we have the right strategy in place, driven by a skilled and experienced leadership team and supported by highly engaged and committed colleagues.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 03 Strategy Dividend Board changes The Boards focus this year has been We are committed to paying an affordable Mike Coupe leads a senior management on driving shareholder value in a retail dividend to our shareholders, fixing dividend team with deep experience and talent.
sector which continues to undergo cover at two times earnings.
We are therefore In January, Phil Jordan took on the new significant change.
recommending a final dividend of 7.1 pence role of Group Chief Information Officer and per share, bringing the proposed full-year joined the Operating Board.
Phil brings great At our results presentation on 30 April dividend to 10.2 pence per share which is the knowledge to Sainsburys from previous we announced that we have agreed with same as last year.
senior roles at Telefonica and Vodafone UK Walmart Inc. to combine J Sainsbury plc and Ireland.
and Asda Group Limited to create a dynamic Business in the year new UK retail business.
Asda is valued at Following Mary Harriss departure from the The business made encouraging progress in 1 approximately 7.3 billion on a cash-free, Board at the 2017 AGM, we were pleased to the last year.
Food transactions are growing debt-free and pension-free basis.
J Sainsbury announce the appointment of Jo Harlow ahead of the market, with a differentiated, plc would acquire the business by a cash to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
quality offer and competitive pricing on payment of 2.975 billion and by issuing new Jo brings to the Board a wealth of experience everyday essential items.
We have exceeded shares to Walmart which would represent a in consumer-facing businesses and in the our three-year cost savings target over the 42 per cent share of the enlarged business.
telecoms and technology industry, both period 2015 to 2018 by 40 million, bringing The Combined Business would be chaired by in the UK and internationally, having held the total of savings to 540 million.
General Sainsburys Chairman and led by Sainsburys senior sales and marketing positions at P&G Merchandise and Clothing continue to CEO and CFO.
The Asda CEO would join the and Reebok.
She has already made a strong outperform in a challenging market and Group Operating Board of the Combined contribution to the Board since she joined us we are ahead of our schedule to open Argos Business and two Walmart representatives in September 2017. stores in Sainsburys supermarkets, achieving would join the J Sainsbury plc Board.
synergies sooner than we expected.
Now that I have been Chairman for more We believe that the combination of these than eight years, a search process has begun, As a business, we are focused on the two strong businesses, with enhanced scale led by Dame Susan Rice and the Nomination increasingly important role that technology and a strengthened balance sheet, would Committee, to find my successor as Nonand the responsible use of data play in bring great benefits for our customers, Executive Chairman.
We our colleagues and our suppliers, while have invested in developing our technology Outlook creating value for shareholders.
It will lead to and digital capabilities and the earnings significant synergies, enabling Sainsburys, In a retail marketplace that remains as accretive acquisition of the Nectar loyalty Asda and Argos to invest in the areas that competitive as ever, we believe we have card scheme in February supports our matter most to customers price, quality the right strategy in place, driven by a strategy of knowing our customers better and developing more flexible ways to shop.
skilled and experienced leadership team than anyone else.
The Combined Business would unite two of and supported by highly engaged and the most talented teams in retail and benefit This has been a year of innovation across the committed colleagues.
The combination from the support of Walmart as a major Group.
We have proposed changes to retail with Asda offers a significant opportunity shareholder and strategic partner.
management structures and colleague roles for customers, suppliers, colleagues and in our stores that will make us more efficient shareholders to benefit from a structurally Our acquisition in 2016 of Argos has enabled and improve our customer service.
We have stronger business with the ability to adapt us to offer more choice and convenience to also proposed a market-leading pay award and grow.
customers in a changing industry landscape: for Sainsburys colleagues, along with revised the combination with Asda would create a terms and conditions.
Our colleagues provide more resilient Group providing an even more outstanding service to our customers every compelling offer in the face of this rapid day and I would like to thank them for their change.
Through our acquisition of Argos hard work and commitment.
As a result of David Tyler we have a strong track record of delivering their excellent work, we have been awarded Chairman synergy benefits and we are confident that The Grocer Gold Awards for both Service and the combination of Sainsburys and Asda will Availability for the past five years.
create a further 500 million of net synergies, post reinvestment in our customer offer.
Sainsburys Bank showed profit growth, The Board believes the combination would primarily reflecting the full consolidation create long-term value for shareholders and of Argos Financial Services.
We will take a the opportunity for double digit earnings cautious approach to unsecured lending per share accretion by the second full-year going forward which, together with the impact post completion.
of new accounting standards and the cost of the external capital we raised in November Results 2017, will impact Sainsburys Bank profits in In a competitive market, underlying profit the short term.
The Board remains confident before tax has returned to growth, increasing in the Banks potential to generate growth to 589 million.
Underlying basic earnings per and healthy returns in the medium term.
share were down 6.4 per cent to 20.4 pence per share.
1 B ased on the closing price of Sainsburys shares of 269.8 pence on 27 April 2018.
