J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Chairmans statement Malcolm Paul, Chairman I have pleasure in presenting my first full year statement to Dividends shareholders since I was appointed Chairman at the 2018 Annual The combination of strong results and operating cash ow, General Meeting AGM, a year which saw James Fisher and Sons supported by a robust balance sheet has led the Board to plc James Fisher produce another strong set of financial results propose an increase of 10% in the final dividend to 21.3p per with growth across all four divisions which was predominately share 2017: 19.3p.
Subject to shareholder approval at the organic.
AGM, this dividend will be paid on 10 May 2019 to shareholders on the register on 5April 2019.
The total dividend per share for The Board remains focused on delivering the Groups established the year will be 31.6p per share 2017: 28.7p which represents strategy which aims to deliver long-term growth in shareholder a 10% increase on 2017. value through a mixture of organic growth supplemented by niche acquisitions across a broad international landscape.
Business overview In December, the Board received notice from Nick Henry of Trading was strong across the Group with Marine Support leading his intention to retire from his position as Chief Executive the way through growth in services provided to the renewables Of cer by the end of 2019.
The notice period ensures industry in the UK.
Our ship-to-ship transfer operations in Brazil suf cient time to complete a thorough search process, which had another good year with further growth.
Our strategic goal has has already commenced, and to facilitate a smooth transition been to establish the Group in the emerging maintenance market of responsibilities.
Nick will be leaving the Group in a strong for offshore windfarms and during 2018 we were awarded our position with a clearly fide ned strategy that has delivered first long-term contract for maintenance services to the London double digit growth in underlying earnings and dividends, an Array windfarm in the Thames Estuary.
experienced senior management team and signi cant growth In Specialist Technical, the delivery of the two rescue submarines opportunities in the future.
to the Indian navy, on schedule, was a highlight supplemented Recognising that every company is now expected to make by signi cant contract wins for swimmer delivery vehicles and a contribution to society and engage positively with all our the award of a 30m contract for the design, construction and stakeholders I have introduced an initiative to develop a Group delivery in 2021 of a deep search and rescue vehicle for the sustainability strategy extending from responsible sourcing South Korean navy.
to supply chain resilience, lean manufacturing, customer Our Offshore Oil division saw a limited improvement in activity engagement, reputational enhancement, corporate risk through levels but there is growing momentum in the industry and we are to end-of-life and recycling.
We acknowledge the scienti c body well set to take advantage of a further upturn in the oil and gas of evidence that human activity is playing a large part in changes market when this occurs.
Tankships continued to trade strongly to our climate and we accept responsibility to address this as part and completed the purchase of two tankers for 10.6m in line of our normal business activities.
Whilst recognising that there with our policy to refresh the eet over the coming years.
is a huge amount to do, I am proud to present our first dedicated In January 2019, in line with our niche acquisition policy, James Sustainability report on page 26.
Fisher announced the purchase of Martek, a UK based business Results which provides a range of innovative safety and calibration Group revenue increased 13% in 2018 to 561.5m 2017: systems and products to the marine sector and provides a proven 499.3m and underlying operating pro t was 15% higher at channel to market for the Groups related products and services.
Underlying pro t before tax rose by In addition, we acquired a majority interest in Murjan, based in 15% to 56.1m 2017: 48.6m and underlying diluted earnings the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the balance retained by the per share increased by 14% to 89.5p 2017: 78.7p.
Murjan provides near-shore marine construction and pro t before tax and statutory diluted earnings per share was maintenance services and we will work together to secure a 17% and 16% higher respectively.
leadership position in that market.
The Groups operating cash ow re ected a signi cant working capital in ow following the delivery of two deep-submergence rescue vessels to the Indian navy completing the manufacturing phase of a 25-year contract to supply and maintain a world class submarine rescue capability enhancing safety for submariners.
2 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 James Fisher produced another strong set of financial results in 2018 with growth across all four divisions which was predominantly organic.
On 28 February 2019, David Moorhouse will retire from the Board.
David has been a Non-Executive Director of James Fisher since August 2013.
He succeeded me as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director last year.
His knowledge of the marine sector has been of great bene t to the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his contribution over the last five and a half years and wish him well for the future.
On 1 March 2019, Dr Inken Braunschmidt will be appointed as In November JFD successfully completed the Black a Non-Executive Director.
Inken has spent a large part of her Carillon 2018 submarine rescue exercise with the Royal career with the utilities company RWE and is currently the Chief Australian Navy RAN, the 9th such exercise successfully Innovation and Digital Of cer of Halma plc.
On behalf of the completed during the 12 years of the partnership between Board, I welcome Inken to the Group.
Working closely with the RAN medics and doctors, JFD successfully tested every aspect of the RANs Our employees submarine rescue system, including the newly innovated Our employees remain our most important asset and their hard hyperbaric equipment suite HES, which entered into work continues to be a driving force behind our consistent service in July 2018 and allows up to 88 submariners to be and strong performance.
James Fishers success is due to the treated simultaneously.
combined efforts of all of the Groups employees across the Group and I would like to thank all of our staff for their support The exercise, which involved RAN Rescue Gear Ship M. V. and contribution this year.
Stoker, Collins-class submarine HMAS SHEEAN and RAN Escape Gear Ship M. V. Besant, simulated a real disabled Outlook submarine scenario, encompassing the launch and James Fisher performed well in 2018 and, with a strong pipeline recovery of the submersible in a continuously run rescue of opportunities at the start of 2019, the Board has a high exercise, which tested the entire rescue operation including degree of con dence for the year ahead.
The Group operates mobilisation and preparations, the deep dive mating across a number of sectors with a broad geographical spread exercise, ae romedical evacuation, transfer under pressure which adds resilience in times of economic uncertainty and TUP and decompression, as well as the demobilisation of our strategy of adding complementary skills and disciplines to the entire system.
the Group through niche acquisitions has served us well.
The The RAN awarded JFD full operational veri cation on the unwinding of the working capital commitment for the Indian whole system, including the new HES and advanced TUP submarine rescue vehicles went to plan and with our record of capability.
strong cash generation we closed the year with a robust balance sheet.
I am con dent that we will deliver further progress for our shareholders in the years ahead.
The Board Charles Rice retired on 3 May 2018 and I was appointed Malcolm Paul Chairman.
As a Director of James Fisher, including six years Chairman as Chairman, Charles always gave wise counsel and I would like to express my thanks for his valuable contribution to the development of the Group.
Justin Atkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2018 and succeeded me as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Justin was Chief Executive and a Director of Keller Group plc from 2004 to 2015, having formerly served as both Chief Operating Of cer and Finance Director, and has signi cant operational and financial experience both in the UK and internationally.
3 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
