Overview Executive Chairmans Statement Introduction I am delighted to report that this has been another period Our core UK and Ireland Sports Fashion fascias of significant progress for the Group with headline profit continue to provide the foundation for our success.
before tax and exceptional items increasing by a further Whilst acknowledging the increased distribution of 26% to 307.4 million 2017: 244.8 million.
This is an aspirational athletic inspired footwear and apparel in excellent result demonstrating our capacity for continuing these markets, we remain committed to giving consumers growth in both existing and new markets, and the strength a digitally integrated multibrand experience where the of our offer in store and online.
product offering retains a high degree of exclusivity.
In recent years we have enhanced the differentiation in our After delivering a headline profit of 100 million for the first proposition and elevated the brand offer with the highest time in the year to January 2015, the headline profit has standards of visual merchandising, retail theatre and increased by more than 200 million over the subsequent digital integration.
three years, a rise in excess of 200%.
This sustained growth could not have been achieved without a relentless and There has also been further significant progression ongoing focus on a number of key principles which ensure internationally for the JD fascia with a net increase of we remain the undisputed consumer destination of choice 65 stores, of which 56 were in Europe.
We remain confident for sport lifestyle footwear and apparel: in our ability to exploit the opportunities that exist for the JD fascia in European markets and we would expect to maintain significant expansionary momentum there in the Providing a best-in-class multibrand experience with new financial year.
Indeed, subsequent to the period end breadth, newness and exclusivity in our offer which we have extended our reach with the opening of our first is consistent across all channels and in an expanding store in Finland at the Itis Centre in Helsinki which is one network of international markets of the largest shopping malls in the Nordic countries.
This has been complemented by the launch of a transactional website.
Further afield, we have opened four further new Satisfying a demanding digital-first consumer with JD stores in Malaysia during the period and we have also innovative technology which can be rapidly evolved successfully launched the JD fascia in Australia both online to react to dynamic consumer expectations and in stores, with five stores trading at the period end.
Developing a multichannel infrastructure which provides In September 2017 we announced the acquisition of consumers in multiple territories with access to a an initial 15% of the multibranded Hot-T fascia in South universal stock pool and enables them to shop with us in Korea which, after the period end, has been increased to the channel and at the time of their choice 50% at a cost of 8 million.
Working with our local partner, Shoemarker Inc, we are engaged on a programme of works Delivering an enhanced brand proposition to convert these stores to JD with the first JD store very recently opened in Gangnam, Seoul.
Being first to market with new styles We are very encouraged by the progress that we Continually investing in sector-leading physical are making internationally and we continue to look for retail environments further opportunities to bring our dynamic multichannel proposition to new markets around the world with the support of our key brands.
One such market is the The focus on these principles and the investments we United States which is the largest global market for sport have made over a number of years in developing our lifestyle footwear and apparel and where, very recently, we multichannel proposition and driving improved buying, announced the exchange of contracts for the acquisition merchandising and retail disciplines have ultimately led of The Finish Line business which, at the date of signing to the creation of a world class sports fashion business the merger agreement, had 556 of its own stores across which combines the best of physical and digital retail 44 states complemented by a transactional website and a on an increasingly global scale.
The JD fascia operates total of 563 concession stores, of which 375 are branded with the same high standards in each of its markets as Finish Line, within Macys department stores.
Ultimate and we believe that this consistency of operation across completion of this transaction will depend on approval a large international retail footprint, complemented from the shareholders of both businesses, a process that by a comprehensive range of multi-currency and we do not expect to be completed until nearer the end local language transactional websites, is an attractive of the first half.
The transaction will also be subject to an proposition for premium third party brands.
An evolving antitrust review under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust brand offer ensures that our carefully curated Improvements Act of 1976.
Based on an agreed price proposition is always on trend.
of $13.50 per share, the consideration payable will be approximately $558 million plus costs.
We believe this acquisition will be transformational for the business in terms of its international relevance with both consumers and the principal brands.
38 Overview Executive Chairmans Statement Away from the core JD fascia, we continue to make The adjusted earnings per ordinary share before selected investments where they provide strategic exceptional items have increased by 32% to 25.15p 2017: benefits or strengthen our position in an existing market 19.04p.
In this regard, we have completed the acquisition of the Sport Zone business in Iberia and The basic earnings per ordinary share have increased by the Canary Islands which complements our existing 30% to 23.83p 2017: 18.38p.
strong Sprinter business and gives us a significantly enhanced sports performance presence across Iberia with an estimated combined turnover in excess of 450 Board Effectiveness million and a footprint of more than 300 stores.
As Executive Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership The acquisition of Go Outdoors in the prior year was of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects approved unconditionally in the first half of this year of its role.
The Board is then responsible for the Groups by the Competition and Markets Authority.
During strategic development, review of performance against this review phase, our businesses had to operate the business objectives, overseeing risk and maintaining independently and whilst we continue to maintain separate effective corporate governance including health and functional teams, there is increased communication and safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
co-ordination between the management teams on strategy and purchasing decisions.
Overall, we are very pleased with the progress being made in the Outdoor People fascias with our businesses performing strongly through the winter months.
The commitment of our employees is crucial to our success and I would like to thank everyone in our businesses for We continue to make very significant investments in their support in delivering another set of excellent results.
logistics across the Group to support our ongoing Their talent and energy is at the heart of our success and expansion.
Works are now substantially complete on the we remain committed to giving all our colleagues a quality project to expand the internal use of the Groups principal work experience which is challenging yet rewarding.
The base build of the new firmly believe that our ongoing international expansion 352,000 square feet leased extension to this facility has also provides significant personal development opportunities, now been completed with the site handed over for internal both temporary and permanent, and is a major reason why fitting out.
In total, the Group has invested a total of 24 people are attracted to our business.
million in the year on these expansionary developments at Kingsway with an estimated 30 million of spend, including Given the growth opportunities available to the Group, further significant investment on automation equipment, particularly with respect to our international development, required to complete the project to extend the site, the we will continue to look to strengthen our senior majority of which will be incurred in the new financial year.
Works are also ongoing on fitting out the new warehouse in Alicante, Spain, which was acquired in the year at a total cost of approximately 15.5 million.
The fitting out of this Current Trading and Outlook site, including the construction of a separate building for a mini-load system, is expected to cost around 25 million Given the significant change in the timing of Easter relative of which approximately 21 million has been incurred to last year, it is not relevant to issue any detailed update to date.
Elsewhere, a smaller scale project to expand our at this time on trading to date in the new financial year.
logistics capabilities in Australia to facilitate anticipated However, at this early stage, we are satisfied with progress further growth, both in stores and online, of the JD fascia is and remain confident about the prospects for the current also ongoing.
Our next scheduled update will take place upon the announcement of our Interim Results which is scheduled for 11 September 2018.
Dividends and Earnings per Share The Board remains confident in the robustness and The Board proposes paying a final dividend of 1.37p international potential of the JD proposition and is excited 2017: 1.30p bringing the total dividend payable for by the major developments ahead.
the year to 1.63p 2017: 1.55p per ordinary share, an increase of 5.2%.
Subject to shareholder approval at our AGM, the proposed final dividend will be paid on 6 August 2018 to all shareholders on the register at 29 June 2018.
We continue to believe that it is in the longer term interests of all shareholders to keep dividend growth restrained so as to maximise the available funding for Peter Cowgill our ongoing development opportunities, including our Executive Chairman potential major acquisition in the United States.
16 April 2018 39 Overview Executive Chairmans Statement An excellent result demonstrating our capacity for continuing growth in both existing and new markets, and the strength of our offer in store and online.
