John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2018 was a significant year for John Laing.
As well as undertaking a successful rights issue in March, we continued to increase our international footprint.
Consistent with this expansion, we moved to a regional management structure to enable us to focus more effectively on value creation in each region: and we are already seeing some benefits of this.
Through our regional teams, we work hard on developing our Investment commitments reached 302.0 million, ahead of key relationships with international partners, the results of our guidance for 2018 of approximately 250 million: which can be seen in our strong pipeline of investment Realisations of investments were 296.1 million, again ahead opportunities.
And because of the rights issue, we are well of our guidance of approximately 250 million: and positioned to bid for a higher proportion of these opportunities.
We are proposing a final dividend for 2018 of 7.7p per share John Laing is clearly differentiated from other participants in the made up of a final base dividend of 3.6p per share and a infrastructure sector: we focus on greenfield infrastructure and special dividend of 4.1p per share.
we invest our own capital.
Our purpose is to create value for all our stakeholders by investing in, developing and managing In May 2018, we welcomed Andrea Abt to the Board as a infrastructure projects, including renewable energy, which Non-executive Director.
Her skills in finance, logistics and respond to public needs, foster sustainable growth and improve procurement fit well with those of other Board members and the lives of communities around the world.
she has contributed actively and positively to the Boards deliberations.
The Board needs a good balance of skills, diversity To achieve our purpose, we continued to operate our tried and and experience in order to perform most effectively and tested business model during 2018, namely: origination of maintaining this will guide any new appointment.
greenfield investments: active management of construction and operational risk: and either hold to maturity or if appropriate In May 2018, I took over from Phil Nolan as Chairman and I would divest in order to realise the value of our investments and like to take this opportunity to thank Phil for his strong contribution redeploy the proceeds in new investment.
Our focus remains on and leadership during the eight years he served as chairman of the investments in public private partnership PPP and renewable Company.
There were no other Board changes during the year.
energy projects, but our business model is nimble and flexible On 23 January 2019, we announced the appointment of Luciana enough to respond to opportunities in other sectors and Germinario as Chief Financial Officer designate with effect from geographies, as and when they arise.
This follows the decision of Patrick OD Bourke, While we committed capital in each of our three core regions Group Finance Director, to retire after the Annual General Asia Pacific, Europe and North America the lions share of Meeting AGM in May 2019.
We are delighted that Luciana will investment commitment took place in Australia and the US.
John Laing has a strong track record of Looking forward, we expect this to continue, as markets in identifying investment opportunities in the infrastructure and Europe remain relatively subdued.
Demand for both is increasing and Luciana will bring strong operational capability with a real focus Since our IPO in early 2015, we have grown net asset value NAV on driving investment performance.
On behalf of the Board, I per share including dividends paid by 15.8% compound per would also like to express our particular appreciation to Patrick annum adjusted for the Rights Issue.
The business delivered for his invaluable contribution to the business and wise counsel another strong financial performance in 2018: to the Board.
We wish him well for the future.
NAV grew to 1,586.5 million or 323p per share at 31 December 2018, from 281p per share at 31 December 2017 as adjusted for the Rights Issue, an increase of 15.0%: 2018 HIGHLIGHTS NAV per share New investment committed 323p 302.0 million 04 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR PURPOSE Our purpose is to create value for all our stakeholders by investing in, developing and managing infrastructure projects, including renewable energy, which respond to public needs, foster sustainable growth and improve the lives of communities around the world.
During the year under review, the Board complied with all Our dividend policy remains unchanged.
It has two parts: applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code an annual base dividend of 20 million starting from 2015 the 2016 Code.
We have also been preparing ourselves for the growing at least in line with inflation: the Board is updated version of the Code issued in July 2018 the 2018 Code recommending a final base dividend for 2018 of 3.6p per and, in anticipation of this, David Rough, our Senior Independent share: and Director, took over from me as Chairman of the Nomination Committee in October 2018. a special dividend of approximately 5% 10% of gross proceeds from the sale of investments on an annual basis, As well as our regular Board meeting schedule, we took time subject to specific investment requirements in any one year.
away from the business in June and in October 2018 to address The Board is recommending a special dividend for 2018 of its future strategy and direction.
In these reviews, we confirmed 4.1p per share.
This reflects 6.8% of 2018 realisations of our commitment to the existing business model and to creating 296.1 million.
further shareholder value from growth in NAV: and we tested the resilience of our existing portfolio against a backdrop of political The total final dividend for 2018 therefore amounts to 7.7p per and economic uncertainty.
We also reviewed our ESG approach share, which, together with the interim dividend of 1.8p per and our plans to improve diversity among our employees as well share paid in October 2018, makes a total dividend for 2018 of as endorsed the Principles, People and Performance focus 9.5p per share, an increase of 6.5% over 2017 as adjusted for described in the Chief Executive Officers Review.
The final dividend will be put to shareholders for their approval at the Companys AGM which will be held on On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees for 9 May 2019.
At the Companys last AGM on 10 May 2018, all their dedication and commitment during the year.
I would also resolutions were approved by shareholders.
like to extend the Boards thanks to all the Groups stakeholders for their continued support, in particular to our shareholders for Our business is in good shape and we are well prepared for both making our Rights Issue such a success.
the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Will Samuel CHAIRMAN Realisations of investments Final dividend per share 296.1 million 7.7p 05 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
