Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Chairmans statement This is my last statement to shareholders after seven years as Our strategy is delivering the capacity, technology and efficiency your Chairman.
I must start by saying what a pleasure and improvements that will enable us to sustain growth in this key privilege it has been to chair the board of a company as special group business for at least the next decade.
I leave in the knowledge that with a strong At the same time, and in response to the concern about management team, a sound strategy and a very experienced air quality, the automotive market has accelerated its long term new Chairman to take over running the board, the company is plans for replacement of the internal combustion engine.
set for further growth and success in the years ahead.
JM has put itself at the forefront of this process, developing During the last year, Robert and the management team a leading battery chemicals technology needed to make it set out a clear strategy for sustained growth and value creation.
A key focus for the board is now ensuring that we Together with JMs 14,000 people they have successfully manage investment in capacity and commercialisation to embarked on delivering that strategy, applying world class ensure we deliver our next generation technology to our science to solve complex problems for our customers.
As a result, customers as the market for battery electric vehicles begins the company has continued to make an important contribution significantly to grow.
to making the world a cleaner and healthier place, enhancing Elsewhere, our Efficient Natural Resources and Health the lives of millions of people around the world.
Sectors bring diversity and added fire power to the groups With the aim of achieving more effective focus, the group portfolio.
Both serve growing markets in which they hold was reorganised in the year into four sectors: Clean Air, Efficient technology leadership positions and have made solid progress Natural Resources, Health and New Markets, which includes our on deploying our strategy during the year.
Alongside the development and implementation of strategy Air quality has remained an intensifying global issue.
Our sector by sector, we have continued the process of making JM a Clean Air Sector continues to work closely with our customers more agile, flexible and efficient company, ready and able to to enable the current generations of internal combustion engines cope with the demands of the growth we expect to deliver.
to respond to changing legislation and consumer demand.
Tim Stevenson Chairman 6 JM has continued to make an important contribution to making the world a cleaner, healthier place Committed to sustainable business A very positive external review, this year, of the work of the board underlined the boards open and collegiate way of working.
Ever since our business was founded in 1817, JM has made a In November 2017, after five years on our board, Colin significant contribution to sustainability: long before the word Matthews stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and sustainability became common in corporate language, it was Chairman of our Remuneration Committee.
Colin contributed an intrinsic part of JMs culture.
significantly during his time on the board: his wise counsel will Our Sustainability 2017 programme came to an end on be missed.
Following his retirement, the board appointed Chris 31st March 2017 and, as we reported last year, we achieved our Mottershead as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
specific goals in relation to embedding sustainability into the way In November we were delighted to welcome John OHiggins we do business.
This is now exemplified in our vision and brand, as a Non-Executive Director.
He brings a combination of strong through the focus of our sectors and is explicit in the delivery of business credentials and deep industrial experience.
I am delighted that we are now able, in this annual report, to share our sustainable business ambitions for the period to 2025.
Aligned to our business strategy and framed A new Chairman as a series of six challenging goals, it will drive us towards In July 2018, at the close of this years annual general meeting, sustainability leadership across our whole value chain.
I will step down after seven years as your Chairman and hand over to Patrick Thomas.
Patrick joins the board as Non-Executive Great people and the right culture Director and Chairman Designate on 1st June 2018.
I am delighted that my colleagues have chosen him to succeed me.
Since I joined the business seven years ago I have always been He has substantial experience in leading international speciality struck by the pride and commitment that our people bring to chemicals businesses and an impressive track record of driving their work: they are proud of the positive impact the company growth through science and innovation across global markets.
has on the world and are deeply committed to making sure JM His extensive board experience and recent executive leadership continues to be successful.
In this context, the board has had of major global organisations means he will be a great asset to JM.
particular focus on a number of key areas over the course of the I wish him every success in his role.
First, on a redoubling of our effort to drive the right health and safety behaviours: our performance this year was unchanged and so there is more work for us to do in this area.
Shareholder returns Second, on training and development of our people and effective Underlying earnings per share were flat this year as translational succession planning.
Third, on the reinforcement of a healthy foreign exchange benefits were offset by higher net finance and positive culture across the business, with particular focus on charges and a higher underlying tax rate.
Nevertheless, the boards key theme of doing the right thing.
In the latter, we confident in our prospects, the board is recommending a 7% have expanded and further embedded our ethics and compliance increase in the final dividend.
programme to ensure we are a responsible partner for our customers and that we stand up well to the increasing external JM is well set for the future scrutiny on corporations.
Our board and senior team are clear about the role they play in all this: we are setting the right tone Johnson Matthey is a great business with a proud history.
th Our 200 anniversary in 2017 was a remarkable achievement.
from the top to create a culture that drives success on all fronts.
World class science and a sure ability to spot opportunities have been at the base of the companys consistent delivery and An effective board success.
I am confident that can continue long into the future.
We operate in an increasingly complex world of operational, commercial, geopolitical, environmental and financial opportunities and risks.
A key job for the board is to ensure that the executive is enabled to manage the groups businesses effectively through the challenge that this difficult mix can create.
With an appropriate balance of skills, diversity and experience, Tim Stevenson the board has become increasingly effective in carrying out this Chairman role.
We make sure our Non-Executive Directors have a thorough understanding of JMs strategic priorities, in particular through focused teach-ins on specific areas of our business and markets.
7 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
