C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T Performance I am delighted to present my first annual statement as Chairman of your Company and report on a year of good performance.
The year to 30th June 2018 was another positive one for investors in emerging markets with the return to shareholders 7.0% over the year and the Companys return on net assets 8.3%.
These returns are both ahead of the Companys benchmark index the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, which returned 6.5%.
This reflects the strong and experienced analytical resource of Sarah Arkle JPMorgan combined with the Investment Managers disciplined process of investing in companies which Chairman combine superior long-term prospects with rigorous environmental, social and governance practices.
This approach has consistently benefited investment performance which remains well ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years, as the graph on page4 illustrates.
The Investment Managers Report on the following pages provides more detail on the Companys performance and the distinctive investment process.
It is very pleasing to note that the Investment Managers proprietary research focusing on quality growth companies prospects over a five year time horizon has meant that stock selection was, once again, a major factor contributing to the Companys outperformance.
Revenue and Dividends The revenue return per share has increased in the past three financial years, allowing us to increase this years proposed dividend by 13.6%, consistent with our commitment to increase the dividend over time, in line with earnings.
However, for individual years dividends received in sterling terms may fluctuate in line with underlying earnings as well as currency movements and any changes in the portfolio, although the Board has the ability to use the Companys reserves to smooth dividends paid to shareholders from year to year.
The revenue return per share for the year was 13.40p 2017: 12.75p.
The Board proposes to increase the dividend from 11.0p to 12.5p this year, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Discount and Share Repurchases We continue to monitor closely the share price and the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The share price rose 5.6% over the year, from 798.5p to 843.0p at the year end.
The discount calculated using the capital-only net asset value, on which the Boards share buyback programme is operated ranged between 9.6% and 13.2%, averaging 11.4% through the year.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged: it is prepared to take action to try to ensure that the discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
During the year, we repurchased a total of 292,498 shares into Treasury at an average discount of 11.5%, primarily in the first half of the financial year as sentiment towards emerging markets deteriorated in the second half and discounts generally widened.
The Board Anatole Kaletsky, the Companys Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Anatole has served as a Director since September 2003 and I would like to thank him for his contribution to the Company over the past 15 years.
The Board will certainly miss his valuable insight into global economics.
Andrew Page will succeed Anatole as Senior Independent Director and in order to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, the Board commenced the recruitment process to appoint a new Director in the summer.
We expect to make an announcement shortly.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 7 C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T The Manager The Board monitors the performance of our Manager through the Management Engagement Committee.
It judges performance over the longer term and thus we remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance, where we continue to be well served by JPMorgan.
AGM With its strong This years AGM will be held at JPMorgans office at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on record of stock Thursday, 22nd November 2018 at 3.00 p. m.. Austin Forey will give a presentation to shareholders, picking, your reviewing the past year and giving his view on the outlook for emerging markets for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by afternoon tea, which will provide shareholders with the opportunity to meet the Company is well Directors and the Investment Manager.
We look forward to seeing as many shareholders as possible at the placed to take AGM.
advantage of the Outlook opportunities As the US interest rate cycle has begun to turn, a stronger US dollar coupled with a more aggressive that lie ahead US trade policy has caused some weakness in emerging markets.
However, this does not change the argument for investing in the quality companies in emerging markets that your Investment Manager has identified as the future winners.
We believe that the long term growth story in emerging markets remains intact and that volatility in markets can give rise to attractive valuations.
With its strong record of stock picking, your Company is well placed to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead.
