qxp 12 11 2018 17:46 Page 6 C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T Investment Performance I am pleased to report that your Company has had a successful year.
For the year to 30th September 2018 your Company produced a return on net assets of 26.8%, outperforming its benchmark index by some 14.2%.
Once again, I would like to congratulate our Investment Managers for this excellent performance.
Further information on performance and stocks is included in the Investment Managers Report on pages9 to 15.
On 26th March 2018 the Companys market capitalisation had reached a sufficient size 712.7 million for it Andrew Fleming Chairman to become a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index at 31st March 2018.
We very much hope that this will enhance the profile of your Company and improve demand for the shares.
Over recent years, while the investment objective of the Company has remained unchanged, the portfolio has evolved, with the active encouragement of the Board, to take advantage of the market opportunities that the Manager sees.
In particular, the Investment Manager has reduced the number of holdings in the portfolio, has increasingly divested from larger capitalisation core stocks and invested instead in companies outside the largest constituents of the TOPIX Index where the Manager sees the most interesting investment opportunities and also increased the holding periods of the investments made.
In previous Chairmans Statements I have referred, in particular, to the opportunities among the newer I am pleased to companies and business models that have evolved in Japan in recent years.
report that your To formalise this approach, the Board, having consulted with shareholders, has agreed that the Manager Company has can in future hold investments up to 7.5% previously 5% in excess of the benchmark weighting, a level had a successful that is in line with many of the Managers other portfolios.
This will give the Investment Manager increased flexibility in managing the portfolio and in particular ensure that strongly performing investments can year.
continue to be held for longer if the Investment Manager believes this is in the best interests of shareholders.
It is not intended, however, that the Investment Manager will add further to any holding that, through market appreciation, rises to more than 5% in excess of the benchmark.
In addition, the Board has agreed that the Manager can make greater use of the Companys closed end structure in support of the current investment approach and invest in a limited number of more illiquid stocks.
To be clear the Company will continue to invest on a research-driven basis in attractive companies across the full market capitalisation range in Japan.
Revenue and Dividends Income received during the year rose marginally, with earnings per share for the full year increasing to 5.53p 2017: 5.52p.
The Boards dividend policy is to pay out the majority of the revenue available each year.
This is set against the Companys objective of maximising capital growth and the dividend paid being a residual of the portfolio structure.
The Board proposes, subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, to pay a final dividend of 5.00p per share 2017: 5.00p on 21st December 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23rd November 2018 ex-dividend date 22nd November 2018.
Gearing and Long Term Debt The Board of Directors sets the overall strategic gearing policy and guidelines, reviewing these at each meeting.
In August the Board was able to take advantage of market conditions which offered the opportunity to secure long term debt financing in yen at rates below that paid on the Companys then existing five year term loan and completed the placing of 13 billion of Senior Secured Notes the Notes at an average annualised interest rate of 1.10%.
The net proceeds from the placing of the Notes were used to repay elements of the Companys short term indebtedness, namely the 9 billion term loan and 4 billion of the 11 billion revolving credit facility.
Through these Notes your Company has been able to achieve fixed rate borrowing of up to 30 years at little or no additional coupon cost than the existing shorter term facilities we were able to repay.
There has been no change in the Investment Managers permitted gearing range, as previously set by the Board, to limit gearing within the range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in normal market conditions.
qxp 12 11 2018 15:21 Page 7 C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T Management Fees The Board has conducted its annual detailed review of management fees.
It concluded that the current Ongoing Charges rate of 0.67% is extremely competitive compared to the Companys peer group, having reduced from 0.69% for the same period in 2017.
PRIIPs KID You will be aware that the Regulator introduced new rules Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation the PRIIPs Regulation that require the Investment Manager, who is deemed to be the Manufacturer of the investment product, in our case this company, to prepare a Key Information Document KID.
The Company and Directors is are not responsible for the information contained in the KID and investors should note that the procedures for calculating the risks, costs and potential returns are prescribed by the law.
The figures in the KID may not reflect the returns the Company might eventually achieve and performance returns cannot be guaranteed.
Stock Lending We launched a stock lending programme for the Company during the course of the year.
The revenue from this will help to defray expenses.
We have made a relatively cautious start to the programme and it is still too early to determine how successful, or otherwise it has been.
It will be reported on more fully in future reports.
The Board Having had the privilege of being a director of the Company for nearly fifteen years, I will step down as chairman at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
I am very pleased that Christopher Samuel has agreed to replace me, and Stephen Cohen will replace Christopher as chairman of the Audit Committee.
I am also delighted to report that Sally Macdonald will be joining the Board following the AGM as a result of a recruitment process that involved an independent consultant to identify candidates.
Sally has a wealth of experience in investment management and I am sure she will make a strong contribution to your Companys Board.
All the Directors of the JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust will, therefore, have been appointed in or since 2013 and they will be in a strong position, led by Christopher, to build on the excellent investment process and performance record that has been established particularly since the management of the investment portfolio was moved to Tokyo.
I would like to thank all our shareholders for their support of the Board while I have been a director.
I wish Christopher, the directors, Nicholas Weindling and the Tokyo-based investment team all success in the future.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 13th December 2018 at 12 noon at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of JPMorgan after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible to this meeting.
If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise these in advance of the meeting with the Company Secretary at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
Alternatively, questions may be submitted via the Companys website www.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Proxy votes may be lodged electronically, whether shares are held through CREST or in certificate form, and full details are set out on the form of proxy.
Outlook There are three particularly important developments that are likely to impact the outlook for Japanese quoted companies: the first is the continuing general improvement in Japanese corporate return on equity: the second is the scale of the Bank of Japans quantitative easing QE programme which now stands out globally in scale and reach and the third is Japans exposure to global trade in general and the Chinese economy and supply chain in particular.
qxp 12 11 2018 15:21 Page 8 C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T Japanese quoted company operating margins and returns on equity are now on average the highest for 30 years with the latter, for example, having risen in aggregate to over 10%.
Similarly, the ratio of current profits to sales is the highest for 30 years.
Foreign investors, fixated as they have been by returns from US companies in recent years, have been very large sellers of Japanese equities so there is the real potential for these flows to reverse if these improvements in performance can be maintained.
The second important positive for Japanese equities has been the Bank of Japans BoJ bond and asset-purchase programme.
The bond-purchase programme has been adjusted to maintain long-term interest rates effectively at zero, and the equity purchases continue on a huge scale albeit to buy into market falls rather than the earlier more indiscriminate buying programme.
The BoJ now owns approximately half the government bond market, and nearly three quarters of equity ETFs and is now a top ten shareholder in over 40% of TSE-listed companies.
The big risk for Japanese equities is the potential for a slowdown in global growth and or the dislocation of global trade flows through greater protectionism.
In both respects it is worth noting that Japanese companies now trade more with China then they do with the United States.
Your Companys Tokyo-based research and portfolio management team has been able in recent years to identify many fast growing attractive companies often based on new business models.
The Board believes that this approach will continue to serve the Companys shareholders well over the medium term and particularly so while there are continuing signs of subtle positive changes in the behaviour of Japanese corporate management in their attitude towards returns to shareholders.
