JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Dear fellow shareholders which a performance fee was last paid and the hurdle of outperforming the total return on the benchmark index.
There is also a cap on the I am pleased to present the Annual Report for Jupiter European aggregate fees that may be paid to the Investment Adviser in any one Opportunities Trust PLC for the year to 31 May 2018, being my first full financial year of 4.99% of net assets.
Shareholders have enjoyed a year as your Companys chairman.
total return on their shares of 10.2 per cent during the year to 31 May 2018, which compares with a weighted average return from its peer During the twelve months to 31 May 2018 the total return on the group of closed ended funds of 5.1 per cent.
and a total return of 0.9 net asset value per share of your Company was 10.2 per cent per cent from its benchmark index.
This compares with an increase in the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Total The Companys benchmark index since launch, the FTSE World Europe Return Index, of 0.9 per cent and a total return on the middle market ex UK Total Return Index, has a nil weighting to UK listed companies, price of the Companys shares of 11.3 per cent again with dividends whereas your Company has a 16 per cent.
weighting to UK listed added back during the same period.
companies and the comparable FTSE All World Europe including UK Index has a 29 per cent.
weighting to UK listed companies.
The portfolio Since 31 May 2018 the total return on the net asset value per share manager considers the locus of activities for investee companies to of your Company was 9.5 per cent.
as at 21 September 2018, which be more relevant than the venue of listing, with many European compares with a total return of 4.9 per cent.
from the benchmark Index companies choosing historically to list on the more liquid London Stock during the same period.
The market price of your Companys shares Exchange than elsewhere.
Since launch in November 2000 the FTSE had increased by 11.9 per cent to 862.0p as at that date.
World Europe ex UK Total Return Index has produced a total return of 171.7 per cent whereas the FTSE World Europe Inc UK Total Return As at 31 May 2018 the Company had total assets with loans Index has produced a return of 159.3 per cent and your Company added back under management of 933 million.
Jupiter European has produced a total net asset value return of 757.8 per cent net of Opportunities Trust PLC was added to the FTSE 250 index on the all fees and expenses.
The FTSE World Europe ex UK Total Return London Stock Exchange effective 31 October 2017.
Index outperformed the FTSE World Europe Inc UK Total Return Index over the 3 and 5-year periods to 31 May 2018.
Accordingly, the board The background to the performance of your Company over the course consider the FTSE World Europe ex UK Total Return Index to be the of the financial year is discussed in detail by Alexander Darwall in his most appropriate benchmark index for the Company: it has in recent Investment Advisers review overleaf and I will not seek to cover the years been the more challenging index for the portfolio manager to same ground here.
outperform and the board consider it likely to continue to be the more challenging index to beat over the medium term.
Dividend Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC paid a dividend last year, in Over the ten year period to 31 May 2018, an investment of 10,000 in order to retain our status as an investment trust under Section 1158 your Company would have grown to 26,350 net of all management of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As the Company is not permitted and performance fee costs.
This compares with an average return of to retain more than 15 per cent.
of eligible investment income arising 15,040 for the eight investment trusts including your Company in the during any given financial year, a resolution to declare a final dividend of relevant peer group.
6.5p per share unchanged on 2017 will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 7 November 2018, payable on Your board discusses the management and performance fee 17 December 2018 to shareholders on the Register of Shareholders arrangements with the Investment Adviser and its independent brokers on 16 November 2018. and other advisers on a regular and ongoing basis.
For the time being your board feels that retention of the performance fee structure This dividend is being declared for the sole reason that the Company continues to be fair and reasonable.
has no choice under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 other than to pay a dividend in relation to the financial year under Share issuance review.
The declaration of the dividend as a final dividend will also The board is committed to using share buy backs and new issues of provide shareholders with an opportunity to express their approval on shares for the purpose of managing the liquidity in the Companys the matter, in line with corporate governance guidelines.
In the unlikely shares on the London Stock Exchange.
event that shareholders were to vote against the resolution at the AGM to pay a final dividend then the directors would pay an equivalent interim During the twelve months to 31 May 2018, the Company issued a total dividend, as otherwise the Company would be likely to lose investment of 525,000 shares at a small premium to their underlying net asset trust status, with potentially disastrous tax consequences for a large value.
Over the past five years the issue of shares at a premium to their number of its shareholders.
net asset value has added a total of 35,023 to the net assets of the Company, to the benefit of all shareholders.
As at 21 September 2018 Fees the share price stood at a premium of 1 per cent.
During the financial year to 31 May 2018 a performance fee of 13 million, equal to 1.4 per cent of the Companys net assets, was Shareholders should note there can be no guarantee that any liquidity earned by the Investment Adviser as a result of the Companys management policy implemented by the board will necessarily have its significant net outperformance of its benchmark index.
Full details of desired effect.
The making and timing of share buy backs and the new how this performance fee was calculated are set out in Note 23 to the issuance of shares are subject to a number of legal and regulatory Accounts on page 49 of this Report.
It should be noted that these fees regulations and, subject to these, will remain at the discretion of the are subject to both a high water mark meaning that a performance board.
fee can only be paid if the net asset value at the end of the year is higher than the net asset value at the end of the year in respect of 4 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued Gearing Annual General Meeting Gearing may be defined as the ratio of a companys debt, less cash The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 November held, compared to its equity capital, expressed as a percentage.
The 2018 at 11:00 a. m. at the offices of Jupiter Asset Management Limited, effect of gearing is that where the value of the investment portfolio The Zig Zag Building, 70 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6SQ.
Notice of increases, all the increase accrues to the shareholders whereas when the Annual General Meeting, containing full details of the business to the value falls, the shareholders suffer the whole of the reduction.
be conducted at the meeting, is set out on page 54 of this report.
Your Holders of the Companys debt are not affected by such increases or attention is also drawn to the Report of the directors on page 17 where reductions, provided that the portfolio value remains sufficient to cover various Resolutions relating to special business are explained.
In addition to the formal business, Alexander Darwall will provide a In order to improve the potential for capital returns to shareholders the short presentation to shareholders on the performance of the Company Company currently has access to a flexible loan facility with Scotiabank over the past year as well as an outlook for the future.
The board would Europe PLC for amounts up to 100 million.
As at 31 May 2018 the welcome your attendance at the Annual General Meeting as it provides Companys gearing level was 4.9 per cent.
and as at 21 September shareholders with an opportunity to ask questions of both the board 2018 was 3.4 per cent.
The directors consider it a priority that the Companys level of gearing Outlook should be maintained at appropriate levels with sufficient flexibility to Economic uncertainties and threats exist at all times.
At present, enable the portfolio manager to adapt at short notice to changes in in addition to geo-political developments in Europe and elsewhere, market conditions.
The board reviews the Companys level of gearing we are faced with the possibility of higher interest rates, trade tariffs on a regular basis.
The current maximum that has been set is 20 per and slower economic growth.
While these can affect all companies, cent.
of the Companys total assets.
the Investment Adviser continues to concentrate on companies with strong management, good cashflow and attributes that are innovative Board composition or differentiated from others in their sector.
The Investment Adviser has Following last years AGM, we appointed Virginia Holmes as a director had considerable success in producing consistent outperformance over and we welcome her to the board.
a number of years and I am confident that over the medium to long term this success will continue.
All the current directors will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Andrew Sutch Key information documents Chairman 28 September 2018 We are required by the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPs regulations introduced at the beginning of 2018 to provide investors with a key information document KID which includes performance projections which are the product of prescribed calculations based on the Companys past performance.
Whilst the content and format of the KID cannot be amended under the applicable EU regulations, the board does not believe that these projections are an appropriate or helpful way to assess the Companys future prospects.
Accordingly, the board urges shareholders also to consider the more complete information set out in these interim and the Companys full annual report and accounts, together with the monthly fact sheets and daily net asset value announcements, when considering an investment in the Companys shares.
These documents, together with a link to some useful third party research coverage of the Company are published at www.
