08 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE AND TRANSPARENCY DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER It has been a challenging year across CAPITAL MANAGEMENT the asset management industry, and Jupiters dividend policy targets an Jupiter has had a disappointing year in ordinary dividend pay-out of 50% of our comparison with the successes of 2017. underlying earnings per share and, except But despite difficult market conditions, in exceptional circumstances, an ordinary the Groups investment performance dividend that is no less than we paid in the after fees was strong in 2018.
clients interests first is at the heart of our The Board is now declaring a full-year business model and we believe that by dividend of 9.2p per share 2017: 10.3p, delivering for clients, Jupiter will prosper.
to give a total ordinary dividend of 17.1p.
In recent years, investment outperformance This matches the 2017 amount, in line with has supported strong inflows into our our stated ordinary dividend policy.
funds, in particular our Dynamic Bond Our approach to capital management also fund, which, in the five years to 2017, had includes returning capital we do not need Putting clients interests contributed net inflows of 8.7bn.
In 2018, in the business to shareholders through however, we saw net outflows of 4.6bn, first is at the heart of our special dividends.
Jupiter has a robust driven largely by redemptions from the business model and we balance sheet and regulatory capital Dynamic Bond fund.
Along with the decline believe that by delivering position.
As described later in this report, in asset prices, this was the major factor in we have chosen, in accordance with the for clients, Jupiter will a decrease in assets under management FCA rulebook, to change the method we of 7.5bn to 42.7bn at the year end.
use to calculate our regulatory capital Statutory profit before tax fell 7% to 179.2m.
resources to the default method used in The Board is conscious that the market the industry.
This mitigated the impact environment has affected Jupiters share that accounting changes would otherwise price, with our shares falling by some 50% have made to our surplus capital from in 2018.
A significant factor in this was the 1 January 2019. changing sentiment towards the sector, Taking these factors into consideration, reflecting rising interest rates and the the Board has announced a special potential for more challenging times for dividend of 11.4p per share for 2018 the industry, with expectations of further 2017: 15.5p per share.
This will be paid increases in compliance costs coupled at the same time as the full-year dividend.
with lower future revenue margins.
In aggregate, shareholders will receive The Board believes that our focus on dividends of 28.5p per share in respect delivering for clients, allied to a disciplined of 2018. approach to investment into our business As part of our long-term capital deployment and a resilient balance sheet, provides strategy, the Group continues to invest in shareholders with confidence in Jupiter the business to support new and existing as a long-term, sustainable business.
funds, evidenced by the increased use of seed investment to enable our products to gain traction in the market.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 09 DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER BOARD AND PEOPLE We announced on 26 February that our Board, executive team and employee current CFO, Charlotte Jones, will be interviews and workshops were held The Boards membership was steady leaving Jupiter in Summer 2019 to take up to reflect on perceived public mistrust during the year, with the only change in the role of CFO at RSA Insurance Group towards the financial services sector 2018 being the previously announced plc where she is currently a Non-Executive and to define Jupiters role in society.
retirement of Lorraine Trainer, who stepped Director.
RSA is a FTSE 100 company Participants concluded that our pedigree down as a Non-Executive Director at the and we wish her well in this step up.
We and history in stewardship, as well as our Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018. have begun the process to determine her long-term investment approach, has the I once again thank Lorraine for her support successor and a further announcement will most impact on our stakeholders as well and significant contribution during eight be made in due course.
More information about our governance For 2019 an integrated programme has As part of the Boards ongoing arrangements, including the most recent been designed to support the business succession planning for key individuals, evaluation of the Board and its committees, in articulating Jupiters purpose and on 22 January 2019 we announced that can be found in my introduction to the then ensuring it is embedded within its Maarten Slendebroek is stepping down Governance section.
culture, its brand and in all of the ways as CEO and as a Director of the Company it communicates and interacts with its with effect from 1 March 2019.
The Board Jupiters culture of autonomy and personal clients, shareholders and employees.
has appointed Andrew Formica as CEO accountability helps us to attract talented and a Director of the Jupiter from that people to every part of the Group.
Andrew was the Co-CEO of Janus have a dedicated and hard-working team It is very likely that a challenging Henderson Group until 2018 and was the across the company and I want to thank environment will continue in the year Chief Executive of Henderson Group plc everyone at Jupiter for their contribution ahead in all geographical regions in between 2008 and the merger with Janus to the Groups progress this year.
He brings a wealth of fund Brexit will see continued political turmoil management experience to the role and OUR PURPOSE AND CULTURE and market confusion play out at least in we are delighted to have secured someone The most recent Corporate Governance the medium term.
of Andrews calibre to succeed Maarten.
code states that it is the Boards responsibility to set the purpose for a The Board believes that Jupiter has a On behalf of the Board I would like to company, encompassing what it does strong and sustainable business model extend our sincere thanks to Maarten and how it does it, and how achieving that will continue to deliver value for and pay tribute to his significant its objectives adds value not only to our clients and in doing so benefit all achievements for Jupiter.
Maarten has shareholders and immediate stakeholders of our stakeholders.
executed a successful diversification such as employees and clients, but also to strategy which has developed Jupiter the wider society.
from a predominantly UK-focused equities LIZ AIREY business to one that is now more broadly During 2018 the Board initiated a project Chairman diversified by asset class, geography and to consider what Jupiters purpose is, with channel.
He leaves with the Boards very a goal of articulating and embedding best wishes.
Jupiters purpose internally and externally through a comprehensive communications and people programme during 2019.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
