04 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Chairmans Statement growing smart Smarter growth and being Just We have built a smart, strong, Just company that can be confident about the future Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05 broadening our access to markets.
We have SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS I am pleased to introduce chosen to compete in attractive growing Being Just is important to us and pervades Just Group plcs 2018 markets and by sustaining our competitive everything we do.
Our brand has become advantages we have continued to write recognised over the years for providing Annual Report.
The business at strong margins.
outstanding service and for being honest, moral and upright in a word, Just.
We work Company hasdelivered Given the macro-economic outlook, the hard to ensure our customers benefit from our a strong new business Company took the opportunity at year end services and our shareholders receive the to strengthen its assumptions related to its benefit of long-term value creation.
The performance during Lifetime Mortgage portfolio which has publication of the PRAs Policy Statement on a period of heightened contributed to the reported IFRS loss for equity release mortgages in December 2018 the year.
has removed the majority of the uncertainty uncertainty for our sector.
created during the consultation period, The Groups financial strength and and our share price has reacted positively to In some ways 2018 has been a year of performance is explained in more detail the improved clarity over the treatment of contradiction: the first half of 2018 was in the Financial Review.
Our colleagues take great pride excellent for Just, as our experienced team in our purpose and work to support our local achieved exceptional sales and smart growth DIVIDEND communities.
The Board engages with our to deliver increased underlying profit.
While Given the uncertainty surrounding the regulators, legislators, professional bodies strong sales continued throughout the potential outcomes from the PRA consultation and wider society to promote the interests year, the consultation on the treatment of into equity release mortgages, CP13 18, the of our customers more broadly and we place equity release mortgages announced by the Board judged it appropriate to defer the great importance on working effectively with Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in dividend declaration until the outcomes of the these groups.
July created significant uncertainty across the consultation were published and the Group sector for the remainder of the year, and this understood the implications for the Company.
A CONFIDENT FUTURE uncertainty resulted in a significant downward The fundamental drivers for growth in our movement in the Companys share price.
It is Following the release of the Policy Statement core markets continue to be strong and the a testament to the quality of our colleagues the Board has announced plans to strengthen outlook remains favourable for our Group.
I and our compelling market offering that the Groups capital base and under these am excited about the prospects for smart and the Group has delivered a consistent circumstances and having considered the disciplined participation in these markets to performance in the midst of such uncertainty.
views of the largest shareholders, considers deliver excellent outcomes for our customers it prudent not to pay a final year dividend and generate value for our shareholders.
The Board has worked closely with the PRA for 2018. over the year to develop solutions that meet Our results in the year demonstrate our the regulators expectations in respect of The Boards current expectation is to proven expertise in our chosen markets firms investing in equity release mortgage recommence dividend payments during the and during 2019 we are strengthening portfolios.
The Board judges the PRAs 2019 financial year at a rebased level.
The our capital base in order to support effective value test as prudent, as for Just rebased level for the 2019 full year dividend our new business franchise.
Retirement Limited this would be equivalent is expected to be approximately one third to holding capital and technical provisions of the 3.72 pence total dividend paid during On behalf of the Board I would like to close sufficient for the price of every house in the the 2017 financial year, subject to the by thanking all of our colleagues across portfolio to fall immediately by over 28% and Groups earnings, cash flow and capital the Group for their hard work, creativity then remain there indefinitely.
Dividend payments are expected and dedication to our purpose.
With equivalent to a 1.7% fall in house prices every to commence following the release of the their positive energy and commitment year for the remainder of the life of our Groups 2019 interim results, with an interim to providing the best service possible to mortgage book.
The changes prescribed by dividend of approximately one third of the our customers and business partners we the PRA Policy Statement do not take effect full year payment.
have built a smart, strong, Just company until 31 December 2019. that can be confident about the future.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND GOVERNANCE OUR PURPOSE In October we announced that Simon Thomas Chris Gibson-Smith Just has a strong social purpose: we help would be stepping down as Chief Financial Chairman people achieve a better later life by providing Officer.
I would like to take this opportunity to financial advice, guidance, competitive thank him again for his service over the past products and services.
We help our customers 12 years and the significant contribution he achieve security, certainty and the peace of has made to the Group.
We will be announcing mind they want in retirement.
Simons successor in due course.
Our commitment to smarter growth and I take great pride in leading the Board and being Just is made possible by our leadership the Groups governance function, and my Annual general meeting 2019 teams focus on building a sustainable introduction to the Corporate Governance business that deploys capital wisely.
We Report provides further information on our 10.00am, always have and always will keep the robust governance and decision making 16 May 2019 promises we make to customers.
I would like to thank the entire at etc.
venues Board for their significant contribution, 8 Eastcheap Monument SMARTER GROWTH commitment and service, and look London The Groups strategy is to deliver strong forward to working with them in 2019.
EC3M 1AE margins by making smart risk selections and
