chairmans statement Turning to our performance by geography, in the UK & 1 Ireland, sales were up 0.4% 0.6% like-for-like, led by double digit growth in like-for-like LFL sales at Screwfix.
1 In France, sales decreased by 3.0% -3.5% LFL, with a 14.8% decline in retail profit reflecting the weaker IMAGE REMOVED sales and broadly flat gross margins, partly offset by continued focus on cost control.
Im pleased to say that our transformation plan is driving improvements with our customer proposition, prices and digital offering, though there is more to do.
Elsewhere, Poland continued to be a stand-out performer, 1 with sales up by 6.3% 5.3% LFL in a supportive market.
In Romania, where LFL sales of our existing business were I was delighted to be appointed chairman of Kingfisher in up 6.3%, we completed the acquisition of 26 Praktiker June 2017.
This is an important, international business in stores during the year, taking our total in Romania to a dynamic sector, and with a clear and relevant purpose 41 stores.
The extra stores provide us with a strong to make home improvement accessible for everyone.
national footprint in Romania and a solid base from which to grow further.
There is a compelling logic in our aim to be more than just a retailer, aiming instead to be the leading home Our full year dividend was increased by 4% to 10.8p per improvement company offering ideas, inspiration and share, reflecting confidence in the long-term prospects services to customers, as well as products they need to of the business.
In addition to the annual dividend, improve their home.
The transformation agenda, which Kingfisher also returned 260 million to shareholders was announced in 2016, is well underway, with a plan during the year, through share buy-backs.
This means that to increase annual profits by 500 million by 2021.
Our 460 million has been returned to shareholders in the past management team, led by our Chief Executive Officer, two years, over and above the normal dividend payments, Vronique Laury, is strong and fully committed to the with a further 140 million planned for the current year.
ambitious plan we have set out.
I was pleased to see the launch of Kingfishers new The past year has been one of continued progress sustainability plan, building on our strong heritage in with our transformation plan.
Our key Year 2 strategic this area.
You can read more about the four key areas milestones have been delivered.
These included unifying of focus in our sustainability plan on pages 30-31.
We are 23% of our product ranges across the business during also developing leading-edge training programmes for the year and entering our final year of the roll-out of our our colleagues, to enable them to provide even better new IT platform.
This platform has been rolled out at B&Q service to our customers see pages 28-29. and completed at Castorama France stores, with back I would like to thank our 78,000 colleagues across office and supply chain to be completed in Q1 2018.
In the our 10countries who present the face of Kingfisher area of operational efficiencies, good progress has been to our customers every day.
Since I became Chairman, made in reducing spend in areas such as security and I have enjoyed meeting people in the many stores I have media buying.
visited, and have been impressed by the knowledge and The full year results reflect continued good growth at enthusiasm of our store teams and local management.
Screwfix and Poland, and active management of self-help They are wonderful ambassadors for the business.
This was offset by some business disruption At the annual general meeting in June, Andrew Bonfield caused by implementation of the transformation plan and will be stepping down as a non-executive director after weaker sales in France, as well as softer Q4 sales in the serving over eight years on the Board.
This led to underlying pre-tax profits of 797 million in thank him for his support and wise counsel and wish him the year, up 1.3% on the previous year.
Statutory pre-tax well in the future.
We have recently appointed two new profit was 682 million, down 10.1% on the previous year.
non-executive directors, Jeff Carr and Claudia Arney, to These results were achieved in challenging economic the Board, who will join in June and November respectively conditions.
In the UK, consumer spending has been under see page 63.
During the year, as part of our Governance pressure, with the added uncertainty of the ongoing processes, we held a Board evaluation, to assess the Brexit negotiations.
In France, many of the economic effectiveness of the Board, its committees, and individual indicators were weak for much of the year.
The recent directors see page 58. market backdrop has been more encouraging, yet volatile.
We are operating in very competitive markets, with the Andy Cosslett continued growth of digital retailing presenting both Chairman challenges and opportunities.
