Strategic Report Chairmans statement A SOLID PERFORMANCE DEMONSTRATING RESILIENCE Having completed my first year as Chairman of Kier, I am pleased to announce that we have delivered a good set of results which are in line with expectations.
3 The Board believes this programme will The Groups net debt at 30 June 2018 was Summary of results further strengthen the business, and 186m 2017: 110m following strong We have delivered a good performance with enhance our resilience in both the short underlying operating cash conversion.
This both revenue and profit growth in line with and long term.
performance has maintained a year-end net our expectations.
We remain focused on debt to EBITDAratio of 1x, in line with our delivering for our clients, reducing our net During my first year with the Group, I have Vision2020 target.
debt position and ensuring tight control seen at first hand the specialist capabilities over the risk profile of our contracts and that the Group provides and its attention to Dividend our balance sheet.
All these areas remain client delivery, resulting in more than 3bn The Board is recommending a full-year key priorities for the Group.
of repeat business flowing into the Group dividend for the year of 69.0 pence per each year.
Our business makes a very More widely, our local authority clients share 2017: 67.5 pence per share, up 2% significant contribution to the local continue to face their own challenges as cover continues to be built to 2x by communities where we operate through including spending constraints and FY20.
Subject to shareholder approval, the building and maintaining key assets, by demographic pressures which have led to final dividend will be paid on 3December providing employment and training, changes in their business models and 2018 to shareholders on the register at delivering community initiatives and utilising reviews of what services they require from close of business on 28 September 2018. local skills and SMEs, where over 60% of their suppliers.
These sector challenges As an alternative to the cash dividend, Kier spend is invested.
Our activities have all taken place against the broader shareholders will again be offered the provide opportunity and prosperity to local backdrop of ongoing Brexit concerns.
option to participate in a Dividend communities and we are proud and Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
It is testimony to the Groups resilience committed to that contribution.
that it has continued to deliver improved Our people results and maintained a clear focus on Results delivering excellent services to its clients, The success of Kier is testimony to the 1,2 Group revenue for the year ended whilst also keeping an eye on the future skills and dedication of our people and the 30June 2018 increased by 5% to 4.5bn with the launch of the Future Proofing relationships that they have with our clients 2017: 4.3bn and underlying operating Kierprogramme.
1 and supply chain, delivering day in, day out.
profit increased by 10% to 160m The safety of our people remains a priority 2017:146m, both solid performances.
This programme, which we launched in and we are focused on their good health June, is focused on simplifying the Group, The underlying basic earnings per share was and wellbeing.
On behalf of the Board, making it more efficient and streamlined.
Iwould like to thank our employees for theirongoing contribution and commitment.
See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Group and share of joint ventures.
3 Net debt is stated after the impact of hedging instruments.
12 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In light of this appointment, Nigel Brook Corporate governance and theBoard Outlook Executive Director Construction and The Board spent a significant amount of We have launched the Future Proofing Kier Infrastructure Services and Nigel time carefully reviewing the risk appetite programme which will streamline the Turner Executive Director Developments and risk management of the Group.
Given business thereby enabling us to deliver a and Property Services stood down from the market developments, there has been more efficient service to clients, respond theBoard and left the business on aparticular focus on contract risk profile tochanges in our markets and capitalise 1August 2018. and key contract controls.
on growth opportunities, whilst, importantly, also accelerating the reduction of the I would like to take this opportunity to thank I am pleased to report that our strong record Nigel and Nigel for their contribution over Groups net debt position.
of repeat business, often within long-term the years to the Group and on behalf of the framework agreements and two-stage Our strong market-leading positions, our Board, I wish them well for the future.
bidding processes, and a growing order record c. 10.2bn Construction and bookhelps to mitigate anymaterial risk.
Services order books, and our 3.5bn Having completed nine years on the Board, Withthelaunch of the Future Proofing Kier Nick Winser has decided not to offer property development and residential programme, it was identified that the pipelines, will see the Group deliver on its himself for re-election at the November appointment of a Chief Operating Officer was AGM.
Nick has played an important role Vision 2020 targets.
In addition, the Future key to delivering the programmes objectives Proofing Kier programme positions the onthe Board, in particular as the Chair of and, on 1 August 2018, Claudio Veritiero the SHE Committee.
I would like to Group well for an improvement in operating was appointed to the role of Chief Operating margins and higher cash generation, expressmy thanks to Nick for his support Officer.
Claudio was previously the Strategy following my appointment as Chairman culminating in a net cash position for FY21.
and Corporate Development Director, joining and, on behalf ofthe Board, wish him well Kier in 2011as the Managing Director of the for the future.
Kirsty Bashforth will take Services division.
Prior to joining Kier, he was over the role of Chair of the SHE Committee the Chief Operating Officer of SpeedyHire witheffect from the conclusion of the AGM.
plc, having spent his early career withthe I look forward to working with Kirsty in investment banking business of Rothschild.
Philip Cox CBE Iwould like to congratulate Claudio on his Chairman new role.
19 September 2018 Governance highlights Nomination Committee Risk Management and AuditCommittee Recommended the appointment of Claudio Veritiero as Oversaw the appointment of Grant Thornton as the Chief Operating Officer: co-sourced internal auditor, succeeding KPMG: Challenged management to increase diversity within the Oversaw the continued development of the Groups organisation and agree KPIs to monitor progress: and systems of risk management and internal control: and Monitored progress of the Executive Director senior Worked with PwC to continue to ensure a rigorous and management succession plan.
robust approach to the annual audit.
Turn to the Nomination Committee Turn to the Risk Management and Audit report on pages 69 and 70.
Committee report on pages 73 to 80 inclusive.
Safety, Health and Remuneration Committee EnvironmentCommittee Reviewed the Groups performance against safety, Set the Executive Directors 2018 19 base salaries: healthand environmental KPIs: Assessed performance against the 2018 bonus targets Approved the launch of the Groups health and wellbeing and set the 2019 bonus targets: and strategy: and Discussed the latest trends in executive remuneration.
Monitored progress against the Groups 30 by 30 environmental strategy.
Turn to the Safety, Health and Environment Turn to the Directors Remuneration Report Committee report on pages 81 and 82. on pages 86 to 107 inclusive.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 13
