Letter fromthe Chairman Highlights Sale of 20 Fenchurch Street 21 Moorfields pre-let Improved retail portfolio with the opening of Westgate Oxford Colette OShea and Scott Parsons join the Board Creating Experiences programme embeds our experience-led culture Succession planning to find a new Chairman 60 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Governance We gave particularly close consideration to Board changes Dear shareholder theevolving dynamics of the retail market, I was delighted to welcome Scott Parsons and emerging trends in the design and use of office Colette OShea to the Board on 1 January 2018 I believe that this years space, and innovation within the construction as Executive Directors.
Technology informs all of these areas property experience they can contribute to Annual Report provides and we received advice on emerging themes Board discussions, and broader business and and their potential impact.
commercial knowledge that will assist us as our most comprehensive we plan for the future.
and integrated report This business needs to anticipate and respond quickly to changes in its markets.
We operate Having joined the Board in 2004 and been yet, reflecting what we ina fast-moving world and we must be agile.
appointed Chairman in 2008, this will be my This Board is not afraid to tackle the biggest last year as Chairman.
I am delighted that, do and how we operate.
trends and issues in our market head on and following a robust process led by the Board, is prepared to break away from conventional I will be succeeded by Cressida Hogg, who The year ways of doing things if required.
joined our Board in 2014 and whose experience This was very much ayear of putting and expertise will prove invaluable to Landsec experience into action atLandsec.
The decision It is also important that our decisions as a and the Board in the coming years.
to sell 20Fenchurch Street, EC3 for 1.28bn Board are informed by long-term considerations.
ourshare 50% brought the life-cycle of Actions taken today will shape the character Leading the Board has been a stimulating this extraordinarily successful development and performance of Landsecs portfolios and experience for me.
There have certainly been toaclose.
The subsequent capital return of determine our impact on the world for years many changes and challenges over the past 475mwas approved overwhelmingly by our to come.
By understanding and engaging with nineyears.
I re-read and reflected on my first shareholders.
We also secured a substantial long-term factors, and providing both support letterto you in the 2009 Annual Report, issued pre-let from Deutsche Bank for its new and challenge to management in terms of how when property companies were dealing with Londonheadquarters at 21 Moorfields, EC2.
they address material issues, your Board has extraordinary market conditions following the Weimproved our portfolio of retail assets acted to create ongoing opportunity for the global financial crash.
with the successful opening of the Westgate business and to protect the interests of Oxford shopping centre and the acquisition stakeholders in the shorter term.
We took decisive, pragmatic action back of three outlets.
Our debt book activity further then to position the business for growth.
reduced our overall cost ofborrowing.
And we That enabled us to take advantage of the continued to raise the baron sustainability, attractive opportunities we knew would Leading the Board from creating jobs for disadvantaged members come.
The actions we have taken since have has been a stimulating of the community to driving new standards transformed the resilience of Landsec and and expectations around environmental experience for me.
There put the Company in an excellent position performance.
have certainly been many to capitalise on the opportunities ahead.
changes and challenges We have to manage our business in anticipation We have seen a considerable increase in the of market cycles and customer trends.
We overthe past nine years.
value of the business over the past ten years.
ended the year in a resilient position at a time But its how we have achieved the change that ofincreased uncertainty in our markets and Governance pleases me most.
The appointment of Robert thewider world.
This uncertainty is reflected Weve continued to enhance Landsecs strong, Noel as Chief Executive was pivotal.
A much in weaker rental values and flat capital values experience-led culture by investing in a greater diversity of people, skills and experience in our markets compared with last year.
We ground-breaking Creating Experiences training has come through under his tenure.
We think have been clear in our preparation for this the about the customer in a way that wasnt even programme for all employees.
We are also Company has conservative financial gearing, contemplated when I started as Chairman.
working to positively influence our partners has pivoted its development exposure from Andwe spend so much more time and effort including the many businesses we rely on speculative to pre-let, manages a truly worldaddressing how Landsec impacts its environment through our supply chain and the wider class portfolio of well-let assets and is led by and makes a contribution to society.
For us, how we do business anexperienced and ambitious team.
We are engagement with stakeholders and the is as important as what we do.
pleased to recommend a 14.7% increase to transparency and clarity of our communications the full year dividend.
Well-publicised failures in corporate culture and and reporting have developed significantly for performance tend to dominate the headlines.
the better, and we are recognised for our Board priorities Itis absolutely right that businesses are held leadership in this area.
Over the 12 months your Board spent a great toaccount, but we should also recognise deal of time discussing the wider economic, the strong progress being made across the I would like to thank my fellow Directors for their political, market and technological environment, businesssector.
Landsec is recognised for its support and contributions over the year, and considering the potential impact on Landsec approach and we support the promotion by the inprevious years.
I would also like to thank all of the shortand long-term changes we see Government of high standards of governance those who work for Landsec and with Landsec.
ahead, and addressing through our strategic and the oversight provided by the governance Finally, I want to thank you our shareholders planning tomorrows key opportunities and bodies.
We believe the governance of corporate for the support and encouragement you have challenges.
behaviour is an essential characteristic of how a given me over the years I have worked here.
business is run and how it reports, and we place Thisis a great Company with an extraordinary We invited experts from outside the Company very high expectations on ourselves.
Setting history and an exciting future.
I look forward to share their insights and experience with theright standards on governance protects to seeing it evolve and thrive for years to come.
the Board, which provided us with a broader thebusiness and the interests of stakeholders.
understanding of the factors affecting our Dame Alison Carnwath Itisalso the right way for a business to behave.
