Strategic report Chairmans statement Sir John Kingman Chairman Building success in challenging times Profit growth continues Legal & Generals strategy is underpinned by Operating profit increased by 14% to 2.3bn We recognise the long-term global trends which include ageing and earnings per share adjusted for one-off growing importance of populations, technological innovation and the items increased by 7% to 24.7p.
Profit before need for greater long-term investment.
sustainability, shown trends, which we have identified as positive The Board has again considered carefully by our commitment to for us, play out over decades: as a long-term the best medium-term trajectory of dividend global agreements on business they matter more to us than growth, taking into account both excellent short-term market volatility or disruptions.
development goals continuing financial performance, and the This was particularly important in 2018, importance to our shareholders of a rate of and climate change.
a year characterised by heightened political dividend growth which is sustainable in a uncertainty and correspondingly volatile wide range of potential economic scenarios.
The combined impacts of the Accordingly, the Board is recommending a Chairman US-China trade dispute and Brexit fullyear dividend of 16.42p for 2018, 7% uncertainty clearly impacted markets and higher than 2017. indeed our own share price, particularly in Building resilience the latter part of the year.
However, as our At the time of writing, the path of the Brexit financialresults show, the direct impacts for process is not yet clear.
Nevertheless, the our business were limited and in relative strength of our business model and our terms, our share price outperformed the balance sheet gives us resilience, and indeed sector domestically and internationally.
makes us well placed to continue to take advantage of the investment opportunities both in the UK, and in the US, which we see as a key growth area in the next few years.
Our strategy reflects the fact that we are a long-term business, where our expertise in understanding longevity has made us a market leader in providing retirement solutions for customers.
Our direct investments mean that our long-term funds are used to help society through investments in future cities, housing, and small business capital.
The Board has been working closely with Nigel Wilson, your CEO and the Executive Committee in our strategic development, building continued growth for our business, itsshareholders, customers and employees.
2 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Chairmans statement Responsibility in business Board engagement with Annual General Meeting 2019 11am on 23 May 2019, at We are committed to being a responsible keystakeholders The British Medical Association, business in everything we do and we want Its vital that our Board understands whats BMA House, Tavistock Square, to inspire those companies we work with and important to our shareholders, our corporate Bloomsbury, London, WC1H 9JP invest in, to be responsible too.
We recognise and individual customers and our employees.
the growing importance of sustainability, shown Lesley Knox has taken on additional Board Dividend policy We are a long-term business by our commitment to global agreements responsibility as the designated non-executive and set our dividend annually, on development goals and climate change.
director for engaging with our employees.
We are committed to building an increasingly Lesleys additional responsibilities build on The Board has adopted a diverse business and have already taken action my own meetings with management teams progressive dividend policy, on gender diversity, both on our Board and and employees across our businesses in both reflecting the groups expected in senior management.
Our business aims the UK and US.
I would like to thank all our medium-term underlying business to be economically and socially useful, and employees for their outstanding hard work growth, including Net Release from operates with a conscious culture of and professionalism which makes Legal & Operations and Operating Profit.
pence Development of the Board As Chairman, I place great value on engaging Im delighted to welcome two new effectively with all our shareholders, not non-executive directors to the Board.
only through this annual report but also by Henrietta Baldock joined us in October 2018 meetingyou throughout the year.
Our AGM and GeorgeLewis in November 2018.
They inMay is an important opportunity to meet both bring extensive additional financial shareholdersand I hope to see as many of services expertise to the Board.
I also youas possible at our new venue.
welcome Michelle Scrimgeour, who will succeed Mark Zinkula as Chief Executive Officer of LGIM later this year, subject to regulatory approval.
Mark will retire in August 2019 and I thank him for his great Sir John Kingman achievements in successfully building Chairman 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 LGIMs scale and profitability in his eight years as CEO.
I would also like to thank Carolyn Bradley, who resigned from the Board at the end of 2018.
11.82p Final dividend to be paid on 6 June 2019 Lesley Knoxs employee role Lesley is taking up the role as the Board Director responsible for employees.
She will work with colleagues from around the business to ensure that the Board has a deeper understanding of employee issues.
Lesley said: Taking proper account of their interests... is an important part of our Board culture, and this can only be strengthened further by creating a specific responsibility for employee issues on the Group Board.
Photo: Sir John Kingman meeting employees on a Board visit to Cardiff.
