02 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement Transforming the Group for success in a digital world At the heart of our success is our purpose to Help Britain Prosper and we are playing a vital role in supporting people, businesses and communities across theUK.
Lord Blackwell Chairman One important component of this to a more sustainable low carbon economy.
Overview and strategy opportunity is the potential to provide a We recognise that the success of the Group is The Group once again delivered strong deeper range of financial planning, wealth inextricably linked to the health of the UK and financial performance in 2018 while making management and retirement solutions to our in this uncertain economic environment we are major strides in executing our strategic bank customers, drawing on the capabilities working hard to support the whole economy: transformation.
Nevertheless Iam conscious and expertise within Scottish Widows.
During and to help businesses take advantages of it was a frustrating year for shareholders, 2018, as well as completing the acquisition the continuing opportunities we have to build with a disappointing share price performance of the UK workplace pensions and savings a prosperous future for the nation.
While external factors business from Zurich Financial Services, the UKs ongoing competitive advantages affecting UK investments are outside of we were delighted to announce a strategic as an open, innovative economy we remain our control, the Board are determined to partnership with Schroders in October with optimistic about the long-term prospects.
continue building value for shareholders the aim of creating a market leading wealth In line with these objectives I am delighted by maintaining our focus on delivering management proposition.
that we have been named as a Top Ten continued improvement in our results whilst Employer for Working Families, Responsible simultaneously investing in the transformation Capital return Business of the Year, and also The Times Top required to serve our customers and At each year end the Board makes an 50 Employer for Women showing that were operate effectively in a digital world.
We assessment of the strength of the Groups leading the way on gender equality too.
are committed to building a successful and balance sheet and future prospects relative sustainable Group we can all be proud of.
to uncertainties in the external environment.
Customers and communities The Board has been actively involved in the In addition to the increased investment of Over the course of the year I have travelled development and ongoing review of the more than 3 billion over the plan period, across Britain to meet with colleagues, strategy and last year we announced the I am pleased to announce that, as a result customers and communities.
These visits next phase of our strategic plan.
We outlined of the financial progress in the year, the enable me to see first-hand the work we do our four transformation priorities focused Board has recommended an increased final to support our customers and respond to on the financial needs and behaviours of the ordinary dividend of 2.14pence per share, their changing needs.
Being truly customer customer of the future: further enhancing bringing the total ordinary dividend for focused is a prerequisite for success and I am our leading customer experience: further 2018 to 3.21pence per share, an increase of always impressed by the fact it is an aspiration digitising the Group: maximising Group 5percent on last year.
In line with the Groups and commitment shared by everyone I meet capabilities: and transforming ways of policy to deliver a progressive and sustainable in the Group.
This programme of change and ordinary dividend, whilst distributing surplus renewal is all embracing, and our strong Our focus on customers also continues to be capital, the Board also intends to implement capital build is enabling us to invest more than recognised through various awards which a share buyback of up to 1.75billion.
More 3 billion in these strategic initiatives over the this year included being awarded Bank of the information on the intended share buyback is current three year plan period 2018 to 2020, Year for the sixth year running at The Banker provided on page 40. asignificant increase over the prior period.
awards: and for the third year in a row Scottish Our purpose Widows won five stars at the Financial Adviser During 2018, the Board were excited to see the excellent progress that had been made Service Awards, a reflection on how financial At the heart of our success is our continued advisers rate our products and services.
within the first year of this plan.
We are now focus on Helping Britain Prosper.
The Group operating in an industry which is experiencing plays a vital role in supporting the prosperity During the year our colleagues raised close more change through digitisation than in its of people, businesses and communities to 4 million for Mental Health UK, our charity entire history.
Our aim is not just to maintain across the UK, and in doing so builds deep, partner, bringing our total to over 8million our position as Britains biggest digital bank by long-term customer relationships.
It is also since the partnership began in 2017.
Seeing competing more effectively, but also to seize important to the Board that our strategy is first-hand how our Foundations and colleague opportunities to create more value from the fully consistent with our commitments as a fund raising is helping charities all over the wider and deeper relationships we can build responsible business and during the year UK really brings perspective to the positive with our customers through digital channels we have committed to becoming a leader in impact we are having in keeping with our and service capabilities.
supporting the UK to transition successfully purpose to Helping Britain Prosper.
There is of Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UK As the UKs leading financial Communities Tax Investment services provider we are 56 million to help 2.6 billion paid in 2018 More than 3 billion making a significant positive communities in 2018 strategic investment spend The UKs largest corporate impact on the UK economy over the plan period More than 200,000 tax payer hours volunteered Colleagues Dividends Lending One of the largest 2.3 billion paid in dividends Payments 64 billion SME and Mid employers in the UK to 2.4 million shareholders 15 trillion of payments Markets lending portfolio processed in 2018 Biggest mortgage lender 7 x UK GDP in UK with c. 290 billion portfolio course much more to do, but I know we will do Remuneration Outlook even greater good in the year ahead.
During the year we were disappointed As we look ahead to 2019, the UK continues to to receive a 20.78 per cent advisory vote face uncertainty around the near-term outlook Directors against our remuneration report, having for the economy reflecting both EUexit We review the Board composition and previously had 98 per cent of votes support negotiations and wider global economic diversity regularly and are committed to the Directors' remuneration policy in 2017. risks.
However we have a strong and resilient ensuring we have the right balance of skills Wehave listened carefully to our shareholders business and, as we accelerate into the and experience within the Board.
During the and other key stakeholders and have made second year of our strategic transformation, year we have announced a number of Board a number of changes to simplify our process we believe that our customer focus and simple changes, as outlined below.
for determining bonus awards for Executive business model with its multi-brand, multiDirectors and to enhance our disclosures.
channel proposition will continue to provide In October, Amanda Mackenzie joined the the best opportunities for competitive Board as a Non-Executive Director, and We continue to align our remuneration advantage and future success.
will serve as a member of the Board Risk principles to the Groups strategic objectives Committee, Remuneration Committee to ensure we reward performance and ensure I would like to thank all of our colleagues and Responsible Business Committee.
our approach to remuneration is aligned to for their contribution to making 2018 such a Further biography details can be found on the interests of our shareholders.
It is the commitment, support page53.
At the end of December 2018, and dedication from all of them that enables Despite the Groups strong financial DeborahMcWhinney stepped down as us to succeed.
performance, the annual Group Performance a Non-Executive Director of the Group Share GPS award for Executive Directors for personal reasons and Stuart Sinclair has decreased relative to last year.
As set succeeded Anita Frew as Chairman of the out in the Remuneration Report, this reflects Board Remuneration Committee.
Anita will the assessed performance against other continue to be a member of the Committee, stretching operational and strategic goals, alongside her roles as the Groups Deputy Lord Blackwell which, while strong in 2018, was a step down Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Chairman from the higher rating achieved in 2017.
In addition, were also pleased to announce Total GPS outcome remains a small that Nigel Hinshelwood, Sarah Bentley and proportion of underlying profit at 5.1percent Brendan Gilligan joined as independent and an even smaller proportion of overall Non-Executive Directors of the Groups Ringrevenues.
Cash GPS awards are capped at Fenced Banks on 1 January 2019 where they 2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares serve alongside the Group Board Directors.
and subject to deferral and performance More information on the ring-fencing adjustment to ensure their ultimate value restructure is provided on page 58. reflects sustained performance.
More In October George Culmer announced that information on how we ensure our approach he would be retiring in the third quarter to remuneration supports our strategy can be of 2019, having served the Group so well found in the Directors remuneration report on since joining in 2012.
I want to pay tribute pages 84 to 104. to Georges tremendous contribution and to thank him on behalf of the Board, our colleagues and our shareholders.
We believe that our customer In February 2019, the Group was pleased to focus and simple business announce that William Chalmers will succeed model will continue to provide George Culmer as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
I look forward to the best opportunities for welcoming him to the executive team and competitive advantage and theBoard.
