Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 01 7]Z X]ZXW[M We provide desirable real estate for modern shopping 7]Z [ WZa Our portfolio is We focus on aligned to modern sustainable and shopping habits growing income See page 02 See page 04 We manage, Our expertise enhance and and relationships create property shape our ina responsible decisionmaking way See page 06 See page 08 LondonMetric Property Plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our story Our portfolio is aligned to modern shopping habits Technological advancement continues to impact our daily lives and is causing significant disruption tothe retail landscape.
As an allocator of capital and a manager of risk, one of our main objectives is to own real estate that is structurally supported and aligned tomodern shopping habits.
We have pivoted away from traditional retail into the distribution and convenience retail sectors where we believe that the prospects for superior returns are signicantly better.
Online spend1 Consumers continue to migrate online and towards conve en niie en nc ce e % 13 pa Consumer shopping habits have Percentage of total retail sales changed signicantly driven by made online in 2017 In-store spend1 technological change.
UK 18% Today, consumers can engage with % retailers in a number of different - US 12% 1 pa ways, not just through the store.
This consumer environment makes Germany 9% Distribution take up2 it ever more crucial for retailers to France 8% adapt to keep up.
Canada 8% The UK is a leader in online shopping.
18% of total retail sales are online 23m sq ft Italy 4% in the UK compared to 12% for the US and 9% for Germany.
26% Net stores closed in 20173 of all non food retail sales in the UK online market share non food UK are expected to be online by 2020 and parcel deliveries are - % 1,772 growing at 16%per annum, with 26 in 2020 same day and next day delivery increase from 13% in 2011 increasingly common.
1 Three month average, Barclaycard 2 Over 12 months, CBRE Conversely, store portfolios are 3 Local Data Company shrinking as occupiers prioritise investment in distribution and logistics capabilities.
Convenience retail continues to perform strongly as online shoppers look to make 2011 2020 smaller but more frequent purchases to supplement their larger shopping needs.
See Market review on pages 20 to 21 Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 Our portfolio is aligned to sectors with the best prospects We have adapted to these Change in portfolio since Companys merger in 2013 structural shifts.
2013 2018 Our portfolio has pivoted away Distribution 21% 69% from traditional multi-let retail and legacy office and residential into Long Income 5% 12% our preferred sectors of distribution, Convenience long income, convenience retail and 2013 2018 & Leisure 10% leisure.
Distribution has grown from 21%veyears ago to 69% today.
Retail Parks 26% 7% This has driven a strong performance Residential by the Company and the portfolio and office 48% 2% iswell positioned for the future.
See Property review for more information on each sector ?
M W V [ ZWVO ZMIT M[ I M TM h WhOWWL MVIV [ QV M[ QVO QVh[MK WZ[ PI IZM ITQOVML W KPIVOQVO [PWXXQVO PIJQ [ Andrew Jones CEO We have focused on growing our urban logistics portfolio Urban logistics an attractive sub sector of distribution The increasing delivery demands of consumers has attracted us to further invest within the urban logistics sector, where there is strong demand supply dynamics asoccupiers seek locations closer to major conurbations.
We continue to build critical mass in major UK geographies, with attractive income yields, supported bycompelling income growth metrics.
During the year, we made investments of 178 million across 25 assets.
Our urban logistics assets were valued at 367 million asat 31 March 2018, up from 161 million Cabot acquisition in August 2017 in 2017.
Over 70% of these assets are located in the South East and the Midlands and their locations provide strong The Cabot portfolio was acquired at a 6.1% net initial intrinsic value from alternative use of land.
yield and was our most significant investment in the year.
The assets are in established distribution locations with excellent motorway connectivity and strong occupier demand.
Greater than 60% of income is from retailers and3PLs including DHL, Howdens and Royal Mail.
117m acquisition of 14 urban and regionaldistribution warehouses See Property review on pages 26 to 33 LondonMetric Property Plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7]Z [ WZa We focus on sustainable and growing income Income remains central to our investment thesis in an environment where there is an almost desperate search for yield.
7]Z ]T QUI M XZQWZQ a Q[ W XI[[ Our ultimate priority is to pass on income generated from our assets to our shareholders in the form of a well QVKWUM OMVMZI ML NZWU W]Z covered andprogressive dividend.
I[[M [ W W]Z [PIZMPWTLMZ[ QV We believe strongly in the compounding attractions ofsustainable, repetitive and growing income streams PM NWZU WN I MTT KW MZML todeliver long term consistent outperformance.
Over the last five years, we have more than doubled our IVLhXZWOZM[[Q M LQ QLMVL EPRA earnings per share and our strong portfolio metrics give us good certainty of future earnings growth.
Andrew Jones CEO Delivered EPRA EPS growth of 118% since 2013, allowing dividend progression % 8.5 8.2 1 1 8 7.8 6.6 4.2 3.9 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dividend per share Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 Strong investor demand for income generating assets The extended period of low economic growth and The focus on alternative investment sources for an low interest rates is creating an almost desperate acceptable income return has increased the attraction search for yield which is set to continue.
of real estate which can deliver a reliable, predictable, longand growing income stream.
The search for income is being intensied by theincreasing proportion of the UKs population LondonMetrics dividend yield of 4.4% is almost 300bps entering retirement age and longer life expectancy.
higher than UK government bonds and is delivering a real return above ination.
Our yield is more than fully covered by our earnings.
4 Ten year UK treasury LondonMetric dividend yield Based on 7.9p dividend per share and share price as at 31 March 2018 Income from our portfolio is long and sustainable The Company has sector Lease expiry prole Top 5 occupiers leading portfolio metrics with 12.4yearsaverage lease lengths, 20 years 16% 03 years 6% 98% occupancy and only6% of income expiring overthree years.
1620 We have nancially strong occupiers, years 410 years with the top five accounting for 35% 11% 36% of our rent and market capitalisations Average: ranging from 2.4bn to 39.0bn.
12 years The portfolio is focused on low operational assets, with many single let.
Its low property costs result in only 1115 years 1.3% gross to net income leakage.
31% and our income has certainty of growth Approximately half of the portfolio is % % subject to contractual rental increases and we are capturing strong open 50.3 4.3 market rental uplifts on the remainder.
of income has xed like for like income This allows us to deliver annual like upliftsoris ination linked growthin 2018 for like income growth on average of3-4%.
Our development and other asset management activities provide further income growth potential.
As a consequence, we are confident in our ability to progress our dividend.
See Property review on pages 26 to 33 LondonMetric Property Plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7]Z [ WZa We manage, enhance and create property ina responsible way We continue to improve the quality and attractiveness of our assets through fide-risked asset management and short cycle developments to build a portfolio ofdesirable and t for purpose real estate.
Managing our assets An important driver of generating long term, reliable and repetitive income is working with occupiers to offer them real estate solutions that meet their business objectives.
58 Over the year, our lettings and rent reviews delivered 3.1million of rental uplift.
Average lease lengths on occupier transactions lettings was 15.2years demonstrating the attractiveness ofour assets.
See page 32 of the Property review Creating fit for purpose assets During the year, we completed 578,000 sq ft of developments which were delivered at a yield on cost of % 6.4%, mostly BREEAM Very Good rated.
This activity has 28 helped to further modernise our portfolio by adding new assets at yields materially above investment value.
of portfolio now rated As part of our efforts to improve our assets sustainability BREEAM Very Good credentials, and by working in conjunction with the occupier, we completed the UKs largest landlord funded distribution solar installation at Newark.
See page 33 of the Property review Delivering wider benefits for occupiers andcommunities Through our activities, we give proper consideration to the needs of our occupiers and stakeholders and the impact % on the environment and local communities.
This promotes 69 good stakeholder relationships and helps our occupiers to achieve their own objectives.
Green Star in latest Our sustainability and responsible business efforts were GRESB review again recognised in our increased GRESB score of 69%.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark See page 40 of the Responsible Business review Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 Managing and developing at our 454,000 sq ft warehouse in Dagenham 180,000 sq ft new warehouse LondonMetric worked with its occupier, Eddie Stobart, to construct a 180,000 sqft distribution warehouse with 15dock levellers, two level access doors and a 150 bay lorry park at a5.7% yield on cost.
Attractive development yield 75% pallet capacity Local community involvement Replaced two old buildings with poor Redevelopment created significant significant local resident environmental credentials operational improvements for consultation pre-planning, the occupier and was phased including a walk in exhibition and, Built in 12 months by McLaren, a local to minimise disruption to the their during development, at resident contractor, on time and within the live operations association meetings 17m budget It has increased pallet capacity by Supported local residents in Lease was extended by c. 10 years 25,000 and is expected to generate pursuit of a better nearby traffic to 26 years across the 454,000 sq an additional 200 permanent jobs interchange and provided funding ft estate for a new local playground At peak, there is a lorry movement Rent increased by 0.9 million per every three minutes and the Over 100 temporary local workers annum generating a marginal yield development signicantly improves employed: twoare now full time on cost of 5.7%, signicantly higher vehicle circulation on site employees of the contractor than investment yield Delivering a modern and environmentally sustainable building BREEAM Very Good The building achieved BREEAM Very Good and an EPC A rating.
99%ofnon hazardous demolition waste was diverted from landll and the project achieved an exemplary BREEAM score for diversion of waste.
250 KW Solar PV installation and roof lights The solar PV scheme is expected to fully cover all of the occupiers energy needs at peak times.
10% of the buildings roof is covered by roof lights.
Electric Vehicle charge points Four charge points were installed with enabling work undertaken for afurther eight to be tted as required.
External Lighting LED upgrade The lorry park lighting was upgraded and is expected to generate asaving of25,000 kWh per annum for the occupier.
On site vehicle servicing A new facility to wash vehicles and tankers as well as a new fuel island is expected to save 3,900 lorry movements a year equating to39,000miles.
LondonMetric Property Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7]Z [ WZa Our expertise and relationships shape our decision making The key to the Companys success is employing a highly talented and motivated team that makes the right property decisions and has close relationships with its occupiers and other stakeholders.
Our people and expertise Making informed decisions We have a highly focused team We take a disciplined, patient and of 25 employees and 11directors.
rational approach to investing: 25 Our employees are based in We are highly conscious of the London covering investment, asset focused team credit quality of our occupiers, management, development and of employees security of our income, quality of finance roles.
the realestate and its opportunity Since the merger in 2013, employee for growth numbers have fallen 28% despite Our internalised structure and % a 51% increase in our asset value, the Boards 3.5% equity in the 1 3.
7 XI reecting improved efficiencies and Companyensures that our lower operational requirements of interests are aligned to those total property return in the portfolio.
This hasresulted in a low ofour shareholders EPRA cost ratio.
the year, outperforming IIP PDA DAlllPr lPro op pe er rt ty y b by y 3 36 60b 0bp ps s See page 26 of the Propertyreview Our future success is reliant on a diverse team with strong expertise.
We promote a culture of empowerment, inclusion and development with remuneration aligned topersonal and company performance.
The Companys success at retaining and motivating staffis reected in its low voluntary turnover rate which hasaveraged 6% over the last five years.
See page 45 of the ResponsibleBusiness review Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Our stakeholder relationships Relationships across all of our Occupier relationships activities are critical to the success of the Company.
Our people and our Our occupier led approach provides us with market knowledge tobetter occupiers are at the core of what we understand future trends and make the right asset decisions.
Our high do but we are reliant on many other average occupancy rate of over 99% since merger in 2013 demonstrates the stakeholder relationships.
strength and depth of these relationships.
In particular, we interact closely Extending existing relationships and developing new contacts are key areas with contractors, suppliers, local of focus for us.
We look to engage with occupiers across all of our activities communities and authorities, our toprovide real estate solutions that deliver mutually beneficial outcomes investors, joint venture partners and andmeet their requirements.
We seek to maintain and In 2018, we undertook our biennial customer satisfaction survey andscored build these relationships and act in the highly with an average 8.5 out of 10 rating for how well we compared against best interests of all our stakeholders.
% 4WVLWV5M ZQK IZM MZa XZWIK Q M 99 8.510 TWWSQVO W []XXWZ W]Z J][QVM[[ Average occupancy Landlord score in 2018 PMa IZM ZMIK Q M W W]Z VMML[ ratesince 2013 customer survey IVL KWUUMZKQIT QV PQVSQVO PQKP [M [ PMU IXIZ See page 46 of the ResponsibleBusiness review Property Director at a key occupier 4WVLWV5M ZQK[ XZWNM[[QWVIT IXXZWIKP PMTXML ][ W IKPQM M I J]QTLQVO [XMKQKI QWV W []Q W]Z M`IK QVO [ IVLIZL[ IVL KWUXTM QWV WN PM NIKQTQ a WV QUM IVL WV J]LOM PQ[ MVIJTML I [MIUTM[[ ZIV[Q QWV W WKK]XI QWV Jonathan Wright Michelin O ur 137,000 sq ft development forMichelin During the year, we completed our distribution development in Stoke.
Michelin signed a new 15 year lease ona 137,000 sq ft distribution warehouse.
Our expertise helped Michelin to take occupation within 14 months ofbuilding work commencing.
