Chairmans statement Overview LSEG continues to believe that enhanced regulatory London Stock Exchange By any standards 2018 was an extraordinary year supervision and regulation on a global scale will with a confluence of major events and trends in world far outweigh any short term political benefits of Group is in robust affairs creating a complex backdrop against which fragmenting financial markets, which would business operated.
Trade wars, rising US interest introduce unnecessary risk into the financial system health, in a sector with rates, a slowdown in Chinese and European growth, and undo much of the global regulation which was growing populism and, of course, the uncertainties introduced post 2008 to make our markets more much opportunity around the process of the UK planning to leave the efficient, stable and safe.
European Union provided a challenging Sir Donald Brydon CBE macroeconomic and political backdrop for all Governance Chairman business leaders throughout the year.
During the first half of the year, the Group was led by David Warren, who combined his role as CFO I am pleased to report that London Stock Exchange with that of interim CEO.
His collegiate approach and Group successfully managed through this personal flexibility ensured that the Group lost no environment with income up 9%, adjusted earnings momentum and I should like to record my gratitude per share up 17% and a proposed dividend of and that of the Board to him for his excellent work.
We were joined by David Schwimmer in August as our new CEO.
He was chosen by the Board from a selection As the Group continued to deliver strong results, it also of excellent candidates after an extensive search.
In December, the Group Board was impressed by Davids deep knowledge of increased its interest in LCH to 82.6%, while market infrastructure, his evident intellect and clarity maintaining its customer partnership approach.
I am of thought and his understated style and collaborative pleased to report also that LCH skilfully navigated the mindset.
His first months in post have validated complexities of the risk of a no-deal Brexit in a way the Boards choice and he has provided excellent that put its clients interests first, as well as supporting leadership during this complex time period.
financial stability of the market as a whole.
As a result, LCH informed its members that it intends to continue During 2018, we also welcomed several new to offer all clearing services for all products and Non-Executive Directors to our Board.
Marshall services to all members and clients after 29 March Bailey was appointed Chairman of LCH Group, 2019.
Our members and clients will continue to benefit succeeding Professor Lex Hoogduin, who remains from the capital efficiencies of a global service.
Chairman of LCHs two operating subsidiaries.
Marshall joined the boards of LCH Group and LSEG, and brings banking and regulatory skills to the roles.
4 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Full year dividend 1 Final dividend of 43.2 pence per share to be paid on 29 May 2019 2017: 37.2 pence per share 60.4p 2018 2017 51.6p 2016 43.2p 2015 36.0p 2 2014 22.5p Dividend policy We operate a sustainable, progressive dividend policy, aiming to operate in a target range of 2.53.0x 3 dividend cover.
LSEG has operated within the target dividend cover range since 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval at our AGM 2.
Ratio of earnings per share divided by dividend per share We also welcomed Ruth Wandhfer, with a Corporate Sustainability Conclusion background in banking and regulation and a deep The Group recognises its wider purpose supporting London Stock Exchange Group is in robust health, in a interest in emerging technologies, and Professor financial stability and sustainable economic growth sector with much opportunity.
There will be a need to Kathleen DeRose, who brings experience in both by enabling businesses and economies to fund remain selective in the opportunities the Group asset management and FinTech.
innovation, manage risk and create jobs.
The Group is pursues to ensure a continuing focus on shareholder in a privileged position at the heart of financial returns, while also recognising the wider role the Mary Schapiro and David Nish both left the Board in markets and we are pleased to help corporates, Group plays in the financial system.
With its strong 2018 and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank issuers and investors integrate sustainability and presence in the EU, sitting also at the heart of the them for the valuable roles they both performed diversity as a core part of the capital raising and worlds major international financial market, and with during a busy time for the Board.
We also continue to work with its focus on customer partnership, open access and global and regional charities which help innovation, I believe the Group faces a very bright I am delighted that the Board is once again disadvantaged young people in the communities in future.
It has excellent people with which to capitalise appropriately reflective of the gender balance which we operate.
In 2018, the Groups Foundation on the opportunities ahead and I thank them for their consistent with our commitment to the UKs HM donated 1.3 million to various charities and our support and wish them continued success.
Treasury Women in Finance Charter and the colleagues also were encouraged to volunteer through Hampton Alexander Review, reflecting our wider two paid volunteer days offered to every employee.
commitment to supporting a culture that reflects the diversity of our customers and communities in Culture which we operate around the world.
In the last year, there have been a number of Sir Donald Brydon CBE initiatives in the area of corporate governance Chairman I will retire from the Board this year.
It has been a culminating in the publication of the revised UK 1 March 2019 privilege to chair this excellent Group, and it is with Corporate Governance Code.
The Code makes considerable regret that I stand down after the AGM.
reference to the need for boards to consider carefully However, it is important to honour the promise the culture of the company.
During the past year, we I made in 2017 to our shareholders.
Don Robert have worked with the executive team to develop ways has joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in to ensure that we set the tone for appropriate January 2019 and will succeed me as Chairman of collaboration and customer-focused behaviours, as the Group from May 2019 after the AGM.
I wish well as monitor our culture on an ongoing basis.
We the Group and all my colleagues well under Don have had excellent support from the CEO in this Roberts leadership.
endeavour and have introduced a 360-degree appraisal process, as well as other feedback mechanisms detailed elsewhere in this report.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 5
