STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement in the business.
In line with that policy, in Overview of the year 2018 we repurchased $211 million of shares 2018, and the last quarter in particular, was Funds under management and the Board has recommended a final a period of increased volatility across asset dividend of 4.06pence per share, subject to classes, heavily influenced by political and approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
This created more $108.5bn As a result of the growth in management fee challenging trading and performance at 31 December 2018 profitability and also the impact of a reduced conditions, with many asset classes and share count due to our ongoing share investment strategies globally losing money Statutory profit before tax buyback programme, our total proposed over the year.
Despite this backdrop our dividend per share for the year is up 12.2% range of strategies performed creditably in sterling.
delivering 1.0% of asset weighted $278m 1 outperformance for clients for the year.
Our role as an asset manager up from $272m in 2017 Funds under management grew in the first As an asset manager we play an important three quarters of the year, driven by strong role in helping a broad range of investors Proposed dividend per share net inflows, but the market moves meet their financial goals.
Our objective is to concentrated in the last quarter more than create and preserve value for our institutional offset our net inflows leading to a small clients and the millions of individual savers 12.2% decline for the year as a whole.
The market and pensioners they represent.
The Board increase from 2017 in environment also had an impact on spends a significant amount of time performance fee generation and hence reviewing the performance of our strategies, profitability, with adjusted profit before tax monitoring the progress and development Refer to pages 142145 for details of the of $251million for the year compared to of business partnerships with the Groups Groups alternative performance measures $384million in 2017.
Within this management major clients and the creation of customised fee profits grew by 7% driven by higher product solutions to meet investor needs.
average FUM during the year but Man Group also recognises that responsible performance fee profits were down from investment is part of our fiduciary duty to our $181 million in 2017 to $34million in 2018. clients and beneficiaries.
We understand the Our statutory profit before tax was importance of sound stewardship in $278million 2017: $272 million, which managing investors capital, and our includes a $113million gain from the sale approach to responsible investing closely of our stake in Nephila.
aligns us with the values of our clients, Our capital policy is to pay dividends shareholders and other stakeholders.
In equivalent to management fee profit and 2018 we introduced a formalised structure return to shareholders capital not required that quantifies the degree of responsible 1 Performance figures shown net of representative management and performance fees.
Past performance is not indicative of future performance.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 4 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION investment focus for all Man Group funds, Community as well as a proprietary list of sectors and We are conscious of the impact our Proposed change to corporate companies ineligible for our portfolios.
organisation has on the broader community, structure These developments will seek to ensure and we aim to give back and contribute The Group has seen significant a clear and consistent approach to positively to those around us.
We achieve growth in the size of its US business responsible investment across the Groups this primarily through our work with the Man over the past five years alongside range of strategies, and inform the way we Charitable Trust in the UK and our US based growth in other international markets deliver our approach to Environmental, Charitable Trust.
Our charitable focus is on and the UK.
As a result Man Group Social and Governance ESG investing to promoting literacy and numeracy, and our is proposing to adjust its corporate meet the multitude of client preferences.
employees are actively involved in charitable structure and international initiatives and volunteering opportunities local governance such that it is better People and culture to the firms offices through our ManKind aligned with the global footprint of the The right culture and values allied with the Programme.
ManKind gives employees the business.
The proposed structure development of a deep and diverse talent opportunity to take two additional days paid should provide greater flexibility for the pool are vital to our continued success.
leave per annum to volunteer with charities Group and support the effective and The promotion of management ambition supported by the two trusts or with a charity efficient governance of the business.
has been a key area of focus for the Board of their choice.
The Company will continue during the year and we have spent time The Board believes a structure that to develop its work to promote diversity discussing with management their ongoing is consistent with market practice and social mobility in education and STEM work to promote career development and for other global institutional asset subjects science, technology, engineering mobility of talent within the business.
management businesses would assist and mathematics particularly.
the Group in competing in those In addition the Board has spent time markets over the long-term.
At Board changes discussing people and the culture of the present, the Groups businesses in In June 2018, we were pleased to welcome business, encouraging management in the US and Asia are prudentially Zoe Cruz to the Board and as a member its promotion of diversity at all levels of regulated by the UK authorities as of the Remuneration Committee.
During her the organisation and monitoring the well as local regulators.
The proposed 25year career at Morgan Stanley, Zoe held implementation and impact of Man Groups structure would result in the Group various senior roles and her experience core set of values.
We consider it very no longer being subject to global within global financial institutions, extensive important that Man Group is an employer of consolidated capital requirements knowledge of investment management and choice and, as part of our efforts to continually and would therefore provide the financial markets, and her strong US improve our firm, an employee survey was Group with greater flexibility going perspective makes her a valuable adviser undertaken during the year.
The Board forward comparable to other such and contributor to the development of Man reviewed the results of this survey, which global groups.
In October, Nina Shapiro, identified what is working well, the areas for who had served as an independent improvement, and managements subsequent The proposal is expected to enhance non-executive director since 2011, retired plan of action on where they should focus the Groups flexibility in financing, from the Board.
We would like to thank their initiatives in the coming year.
including for example the seed capital Nina for her contribution over the years and programme that supports product Shareholders wish her all the very best for the future.
innovation in our international At Man Group, we have an open and businesses.
Following the proposed Outlook constructive dialogue with shareholders.
change the Board will continue to Whilst 2018 was a more challenging year In addition to the regular series of meetings judge the Groups capital needs in terms of financial results, a significant with shareholders in 2018 we held a teach-in against its operational and strategic amount of progress was made in building on technology in asset management, which requirements.
for the long-term future growth and success was aimed at improving shareholders In order to implement this change of the business.
I would like to pay tribute to understanding of the way we use technology ManGroup plc is proposing to the management team led by Luke Ellis and both in the investment process and more incorporate a new Group holding all our people for what has been achieved.
The proposed We will continue to build on this good base As our business evolves, it is important to change will have no impact on our by investing in our people, our technology ensure that it has a corporate structure that presence or the business operations in and developing innovative investment provides flexibility.
Accordingly, we announced London and the Group will remain UK strategies to deliver value to both our clients in October our intention to adjust the Groups tax resident with no expected change and shareholders.
corporate structure and international in our effective tax rate.
The Groups governance such that it is better aligned with shares would also remain UK listed.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead the global footprint of the business today Chairman and to provide future flexibility in the capital structure of the Group.
Further detail on this is included opposite.
The proposal will be subject to shareholder approval.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5
