02 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In September 2017, I took over as Chairman For this reason, at the time of our Half of Marks & Spencer.
I did so in the belief that Year Results in November, Steve Rowe set the right actions and a strong management out his diagnosis of our problems and team can revive again one of the UKs most announced the beginning of a five-year special brands a business much loved by transformation programme, Making M&S its employees, customers, and suppliers.
In this Annual Report we set out in greater detail the composition Since that time, I have had an opportunity to of that programme.
The first phase is meet with many colleagues in the business about restoring the basics, getting the and examine the challenges we face from organisational structure and infrastructure the inside.
There is no doubt in my mind of the business fit for the future.
that we face formidable headwinds and transformational changes are needed.
The This is vital because despite years of high continued migration of clothing and home spending, the shape of the business is out The genesis of any online, the further development of global of date and much of our infrastructure is competition, the growth of home delivery in inefficient.
For instance, while competitors turnaround starts with food and the march of the discounters all have modernised their store estate, M&S amount to threats that are eroding our has been slow to close stores and renew the recognition of the business and market position.
Our supply chains in both Clothing & unvarnished truth.
with a challenging UK consumer market, Home and in Food require significant mean that we have a burning platform.
In fast-moving fashion this ARCHIE NORMAN CHAIRMAN Accelerated change is the only option.
means we are slower than most of our major competitors to market and carry high levels These threats are not new but the tide is of stock.
Although online sales are growing, running more strongly against us now our online capability is behind the best of than at any previous time.
And I am very our competitors, and our fulfilment centre conscious that previous generations of at Castle Donington has struggled to cope highly capable managers and boards with peak demand.
Our technology support have come and gone without arresting is improving as we migrate off legacy the underlying drift in competitiveness.
systems and an old mainframe.
In both main Our failure to adapt has not therefore been a retail businesses, our customer base has result of weakness in strategic thinking, nor a narrowed and we have lost share of younger lack of talented leadership, nor of capital INTERIM Paid on 12 January 2018 family-age customers.
Behind most underperforming businesses there sits organisational failure Although we will present more detail of and culture that has proved resistant to the transformation strategy over the next 6.8p change.
That is 12 months, Steve has already announced not to say we do not have many great and the pillars of this first phase.
We are well passionate colleagues.
We owe it to them to on the way to closing at least 25% of our make change an imperative, to simplify the Clothing & Home space.
The website is being FINAL To be paid on 13 July 2018 culture, and create a faster, lower cost, more improved and we are investing to remedy commercial business.
the problems at Castle Donington and build a single-tier distribution network.
We aim The genesis of any turnaround starts to almost double our online share of 11.9p with the recognition of the unvarnished Clothing & Home sales to over 33%.
We have truth: the ability of the management to established a technology partnership with set corporate vanity on one side and TCS to improve our IT base.
Teams have communicate the urgency of change been established to address the supply TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR 2017 18 and the true state of the business internally chain issues in both main businesses.
In our case, store colleagues We are taking steps to recover our appeal on the front line feel the pressures of to family-age customers in clothing, trading every week.
To them, and indeed reduce the number of product lines and 18.7p many shareholders, the hard facts are buy more stylish product in greater depth.
Indeed, it comes as a relief to The expansion in Food space has been hear the leadership talk about the reality slowed while we concentrate on refreshing and invite all colleagues to climb on board the format and driving sustainable growth.
with a far-reaching programme of change.
Our International business has already been rationalised and we are now creating a 03 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 competitive network of mainly franchiseThese changes are urgent because the I have a large number of board-level led businesses in territories where we can world is changing around us.
I am acutely colleagues to thank.
These are basic enabling steps which aware that shareholders at M&S have heard Robert Swannell, set the platform for the should provide a platform for restoration about similar programmes before.
Some current changes and established strong of growth in later stages.
made progress, others proved to be false corporate governance routines.
The chill winds of competition in as CFO brought to the business much Alongside this we have announced all our markets are now such that time is intellectual challenge and financial formative changes in the organisation.
running out and we cannot afford to fail.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne has M&S has been managed as a single business overseen some extraordinary marketing led by functional directors.
However, In tackling the problems, we still have campaigns over the last six years.
Miranda the Food business is very different from several important advantages.
First, we have Curtis played an important and challenging Clothing & Home.
Our property assets need a wonderful brand which most people in role as a non-executive director.
We thank proactive management and M&S Bank is the UK still hold in great affection.
Second, them all for their contribution.
Therefore, we we have great operators in the stores and are moving from the heavyweight corporate many colleagues with extraordinary passion As we enter a new era with a new structure to a family of parallel businesses, for the business.
Third, our technical management team and new urgent each with shared brand values but each led skills in both clothing and food and our perspective on the need to change, by its own integrated management team.
understanding of quality, ingredients, we need a strong board committed to Jill McDonald has already started to build a sourcing, size and fit remain outstanding.
I am delighted therefore top calibre team in Clothing & Home and So, we have a lot on which to build.
that Katie Bickerstaffe and Pip McCrostie Stuart Machin joined to lead the Food will be joining shortly, subject to their The purpose of the transformation plan business in April.
Sacha Berendji will lead election by our shareholders at the AGM is to restore the business to sustainable, the development of a property strategy on 10 July.
In doing so, the Board alongside his other responsibilities.
remains committed to maintaining the Finally, at a time of declining profit, it is the Supporting the businesses will sit a right balance between investment in the colleagues on the ground who bear much streamlined corporate layer including a business, dividends for shareholders of the brunt of change.
My thanks go to all strong digital and data analytics capability.
Given the of them for their hard work and also to At the senior level we are glad that continued net cash generation by the our longstanding shareholders for their Humphrey Singer is joining us as business and our strong belief in the patient support.
CFO, bringing his experience of the potential of the transformation, we intend transformation of Dixons Carphone.
to maintain the dividend at its current Together with Steve Rowe he will oversee a level.
M&S has a history of large-scale strong but lean corporate level team.
capital spending, much of which has not ARCHIE NORMAN CHAIRMAN This new organisation structure should generated hoped-for returns.
In the new help break down some of the historic organisation we will continue to be frugal organisational silos and create a faster, in our allocation of capital and assess more commercial and accountable M&S.
investment against strict returns criteria.
We owe it to our people to make change an imperative, and create a faster, lower cost, more commercial business.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
