CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR LONG-STANDING REPUTATION AS A TRUSTED, MARKET-LEADING, HEALTHCARE SERVICE PROVIDER FOCUSED ON PATIENT SAFETY ANDEXCELLENT CLINICAL PERFORMANCE, WILL CONTINUE TO DELIVER LONG-TERM GROWTH AND RETURNS FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman and regularly engages with the executive directors and STRATEGIC DELIVERY senior management across the Group to ensure they are During the year under review FY18, we made further focused on the delivery of these key priorities.
progress on our strategic priorities of putting Patients First, In October 2017, Mediclinic made an approach to Spire improving Group and operational effi ciencies, pursuing Healthcare Group plc Spire regarding a possible off er for attractive growth opportunities and leveraging our global the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Spire not scale, while continuing to invest in employees, information already owned by Mediclinic.
However, in November 2017, we and communications technology and analytics.
Mediclinics announced that following discussions with the independent commitment to deliver sustainable, high-quality, costdirectors of Spire, an agreement could not be reached.
eff ective healthcare services produced a positive operational The decision not to proceed demonstrates our disciplined performance this year.
We fi rmly believe this commitment approach to capital allocation, ensuring investments are in the supports our goal of driving continued long-term value best interests of Mediclinic shareholders.
Mediclinic has every for our shareholders.
The Board continuously reviews our intention of remaining a supportive shareholder of Spire.
strategic priorities and the progress made during the year, 6 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT by regulatory changes including outpatient tariff reductions, OUR PEOPLE AND PATIENTS modest revenue growth in Southern Africa with an improved Mediclinics focus on its culture and values is a key contributor adjusted EBITDA margin and revenues up nearly 1% in the to the long-term success of the Group.
The commitment Middle East with an improvement in the adjusted EBITDA of our executive directors, senior management, doctors, margin of 100 basis points versus the prior year.
Adjusted nurses and other staff supports Mediclinics core purpose of earnings per share impacted by the equity-accounted enhancing quality of life, which is at the heart of our Patients share of reported profi t after tax from Spire which included a number of exceptional charges was up 1% to 30.0 pence First strategy.
Competition in the public and private healthcare markets provides patients and medical professionals with a choice CLINICAL EXCELLENCE of healthcare service providers.
We ensure we remain well I am pleased to report that, during the year under review, positioned as a leading global healthcare service provider the majority of patient safety and clinical eff ectiveness through our ongoing investment in our facilities, commitment indicators showed improvement.
In addition, many initiatives to patient safety and excellent clinical performance.
We in support of clinical performance and quality improvement deeply appreciate the more than 740 000 inpatients who were launched and completed.
Much of the progress can be chose Mediclinic as their preferred healthcare service attributed to a strong collaborative eff ort between the clinical provider during the year.
services teams of the respective operating divisions and the corporate centre.
Highlights from across the Group include: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Mediclinic International: Overall, the Group remains in a strong fi financial position.
The The restructuring and strengthening of clinical services benefi t of having a globally diversifi ed healthcare services leadership at hospital, divisional and corporate level.
business was refl ected in this years results as a weaker The establishment of health technology assessment performance in Switzerland was off set by good delivery in as the cornerstone to making clinical investment and Southern Africa and the Middle East.
The latter was as a result process decisions.
of driving the turnaround of the Abu Dhabi business, with the Middle East division entering an expansionary phase that Hirslanden: is expected to deliver an increase in revenue and operating Klinik Hirslandens stroke centre was re-accredited as the profi ts over time.
only private unit of eight across Switzerland.
During the year, the Group reported non-cash exceptional items The Bellaria Outpatient Surgery Unit OSU was relating to impairment charges at Hirslanden and Spire.
Due to successfully launched at Hirslanden Klinik Im Park, which the changes in the Swiss market and regulatory environment, serves as a blueprint for further outpatient facilities.
Hirslanden recorded a 644m impairment charge on intangible Mediclinic Southern Africa: assets and property.
An impairment test on Spire was carried out at 30 September 2017 resulting in an impairment charge The doctors alignment project made good progress and of 109m recorded against the carrying value of the equity will be expanded to another 23 hospitals.
As a result of these impairment charges A new Clinical Performance Committee structure was and other exceptional items, the reported earnings loss for the successfully implemented, including external specialist year was 492m FY17: profi t 229m.
At the Group level, in constant currency, FY18 revenue Mediclinic Middle East: was up 3% and adjusted EBITDA was fl at.
However, after the translation eff ect of foreign currency movements, A stroke unit was established at Mediclinic City Hospital, FY18 revenue was up 4% at 2 870m FY17: 2 749m and which was subsequently certifi ed by the German Stroke adjusted EBITDA increased 3% at 515m FY17: 501m.
This performance was driven by marginal revenue growth in We initiated a renal transplant programme in collaboration Switzerland with a lower adjusted EBITDA margin impacted with the Mohammed Bin Rashid University.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED before joining Mediclinic in 1999 and became a member of REGULATORY LANDSCAPE the Groups Executive Committee in 2008.
He established The healthcare industry has always operated within an and developed the Clinical Information, Advanced Analytics, evolving regulatory environment.
Over the years, we have Health Information Management and Clinical Services invested in recruiting and training our people to ensure we functions at Mediclinic, and has been Group Chief Clinical have experienced and well-informed management teams who Officer since 2007.
He was appointed as a director of can successfully navigate the changing regulatory landscape.
Mediclinic International Limited in 2010 up to the combination This year, we saw a significant change in outpatients tariffs of the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Hospitals and procedures in Switzerland that impacted the financial Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
The Board performance of the division.
We continued to engage in was unanimous in its support for Ronnie and believes that the Health Market Inquiry HMI and National Healthcare his extensive knowledge of Mediclinics operations and his Insurance NHI review process in South Africa, and we strong track record of driving enhancements, especially in have been preparing for a new Diagnostic Related Group the quality and effectiveness of our clinical services, will DRG reimbursement model in Dubai.
Globally, there is a serve the Company well going forward.
continued focus on the affordability of healthcare.
Mediclinic I am pleased to announce that this year the Board made seeks to address this through its strategic priority of two independent non-executive director appointments that improving efficiencies.
Outmigration of care is an approach further strengthened the Boards clinical governance and that aims to reduce the cost of certain, low acuity healthcare global healthcare experience.
Mediclinic is aligning with this approach, as it is fundamental to the long-term sustainable On 3 October 2017, Dr Felicity Harvey joined the Board.
Her thorough knowledge of and experience in the healthcare delivery of healthcare.
sector, which includes a number of senior roles in the UK Department of Health, will be a valuable addition to the BOARD CHANGES AND GOVERNANCE Board.
On 1 April 2018, Dr Harvey became Chairman of the The Board announced the appointment of Dr Ronnie van Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee.
der Merwe as the Companys new CEO in November 2017.
The appointment is effective on 1 June 2018.
On 1 November 2017, Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi joined the Board.
Her extensive experience and knowledge of the Danie Meintjes joined the Group in 1985 as the Hospital healthcare and higher education sectors in the UAE, together Manager of Mediclinic Sandton in Johannesburg.
He became with her strategic and tactical expertise in operations and a member of the Group Executive Committee in 1995, mainly fiscal management, provide a further positive dynamic to responsible for human resources matters.
From 2006, he the Board and, from 1 April 2018, the Clinical Performance was instrumental in establishing the Companys Dubai and Sustainability Committee.
operations over a four-year period, before his appointment as CEO of Mediclinic International Limited in 2010.
Danie Since their appointments to the Board, Drs Harvey and has played an instrumental role in the development of Al Hashimi have already made important contributions.
I look Mediclinic and the implementation of our strategy.
I would forward to working closely with them over the coming years.
personally like to thank Danie for more than 30 years On 29 March 2018, we announced that Ms Nandi Mandela service to the Group which has seen the Company grow and Prof Dr Robert Leu will retire as non-executive directors from a small operator in South Africa to a diversified global of the Company, and as members of all relevant Board healthcare services provider, listed on the London Stock committees, at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
I would like to Exchange, with operating divisions located across three thank them for their commitment and valued contributions continents and over 31 500 employees.
Subject to Danies to the Board and the Group over many years.
re-election as a director of the Company at the AGM, he will continue as an executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a Over the past 40 years, we have faced dramatic cultural non-executive director with effect from 1 August 2018. and demographic changes, both in the UK and globally.
Danies continued involvement as a non-executive director The Parker Review in the UK looks to formally address this was approved by the Board on 23 May 2018 as it was issue by analysing the progress being made in the areas of considered to be in the best interests of the Group, its diversity, equality and inclusion.
I am pleased to report that shareholders and other stakeholders in view of the wealth Mediclinic ranked eighth out of the FTSE 100 companies of knowledge and experience he has gained in different in the 2017 Parker Review analysis of ethnic diversity in capacities during his service at Mediclinic.
Mediclinic fully recognises that to remain competitive in a global market, and to ensure we attract and Ronnie is one of Mediclinics most experienced senior retain the best talent, our culture and values must continue executives.
He trained and practised as an anaesthesiologist to align with our diverse employee base.
8 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GO GO VERNANCE AND REMUNERA VERNANCE & REMUNERATION TION FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S SHAREHOLDER INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMA TION TION CHAIRMANS S CHAIRMANS ST TA ATEMENT TEMENT SHAREHOLDER RETURNS For FY18, the Board recommends a final dividend of 4.70 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 3.20 pence per share, results in the total dividend maintained for the year at 7.90 pence per share FY17: 7.90 pence per share.
This represents a 26% pay-out ratio to adjusted earnings per share, in line with the Groups policy of 25% to 30%.
LOOKING AHEAD Mediclinic has more than 30 years experience of providing private healthcare in a sector where the demand for services continues to grow.
Regulation will always play an important role in the industry, and the affordability of healthcare will remain a focus for all stakeholders.
The Board is confident that our long-standing reputation as a trusted, marketleading, healthcare service provider focused on patient safety and excellent clinical performance, will continue to deliver long-term growth and returns for our shareholders.
APPRECIATING YOUR CONTINUED SUPPORT As ever, I want to express my sincere thanks to everyone who contributed to Mediclinics performance, including our executive directors, senior management, doctors, nurses and other staff.
In particular, the support of patients and medical professionals is absolutely vital to the long-term sustainability of our business, and we deeply appreciate that they have chosen Mediclinic as their preferred healthcare service partner.
Finally, I would like to extend a special thank you to all our shareholders for their confidence in Mediclinic.
Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC MEDICLINIC | ANNU | ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2018 18 9 9
