Chairmans statement Reflecting the continued confident outlook, the Board is proposing a 5% increase to the full year dividend to 16.65p per share for 2018 2017: 15.85p.
Our first priority is Our third priority is to expand our portfolio through value accretive investing in the organic acquisitions.
Over the last two years, we have enhanced our focus on attractive aerospace, defence and selected energy growth and operational markets where we have or can achieve a differentiated position.
The Board meets efficiency of the business.
regularly to discuss the Groups strategy and has a clear view on how we can further improve this position with Accelerating value creation carefully targeted acquisitions.
A clear and disciplined 2018 has proved a successful year with approach to capital the smooth and efficient handover of Finally, in the absence of any compelling allocation.
leadership to Tony Wood as Chief investment opportunities for a prolonged Executive.
The rate of organic revenue period, our fourth priority is to maintain growth accelerated to 9%, thanks to the an efficient balance sheet in line with the 01 significant investments we have made in Boards guidance range of 1.5x to 2.5x Continued investment to drive differentiated technology during an Net Debt:EBITDA, designed to ensure sustainable long term organic unprecedented product renewal by the clear headroom against our covenants.
growth major airframe and engine manufacturers.
Board changes 02 We have seen strong demand in all of In September, we announced that our end markets during 2018 despite the Doug Webb would retire from his role as Grow our ordinary dividend in line more challenging macro environment.
Chief Financial Officer in December 2018. with earnings through the cycle Tradetariffs, commodity price volatility Doug served as our CFO for over five and preparation for the UKs exit from years, overseeing a critical period in our 03 the European Union have all increased evolution from a holding company to an Expand our portfolio through value uncertainty and added cost to the integrated group.
We thank Doug for accretive acquisitions business.
However, the strong progress the significant role he has played in the we have made in executing our strategic development of the Group and we wish priorities has enabled us to continue to 04 him well in his retirement.
build momentum in line with our 2021 Maintain an efficient balance sheet targets for margin and cash improvement.
Doug has been succeeded by Louisa Burdett who joined us after serving as As we predominently supply products Group Finance Director of Victrex, a FTSE on a solesource basis, we are the sole 250 industrial polymers group.
Louisa has provider of spare parts on the new extensive experience in senior financial platforms that will be in operation for roles at companies including the Financial decades.
With an installed base of over Times Group, GE and GlaxoSmithKline 71,000 aircraft, this provides a highly and is also a NonExecutive Director and resilient business model and means we Chair of the Audit Committee of are well positioned to weather the current Electrocomponents plc.
uncertainty and sustain long term growth.
Guy Hachey has joined the Board as a Capital allocation NonExecutive Director in January 2019.
The Boards priorities for capital Previously President and Chief Operating allocation remain unchanged.
Continued Officer of Bombardier, Guy will bring investment to drive sustainable long term extensive experience in aerospace and organic growth is our first priority.
will be a strong successor for Paul Heiden Research into differentiated technology, who is retiring on 25 April 2019.
We thank investment in world class infrastructure Paul for nine years of excellent service.
and recruiting and developing the best Paul will be succeeded by Guy Berruyer talent are critical to our success.
as Senior Independent Director and Alison Goligher as Chairman of the Our second priority is to grow our Remuneration Committee.
ordinary dividend in line with earnings through the cycle.
Over the past five We also recently announced the years we have grown our dividend by appointment of Caroline Silver as 5% p. a. during a period of significant a NonExecutive Director from investment.
During this period, free cash 25 April 2019.
Caroline is a Senior flow has exceeded the dividend by 1.5x, Managing Director at Moelis & Company, demonstrating the strong cash generative and will bring 30 years of experience in nature of our business model.
investment banking to the Board.
Meggitt PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Caroline is NonExecutive Chairman of Investment case FTSE 250 consumer products group, PZ Cussons plc and a NonExecutive Director of BUPA.
Meggitt PLC specialises in providing smart engineering People for extreme environments.
Having passed the peak of During 2018, the Board had the opportunity to meet our employees and investment in R&D, our focus is on delivering on these experience the Meggitt culture during visits to a number of our sites including new programmes to our customers and accelerating our recently expanded facilities in Vietnam growth in returns to shareholders.
and San Diego, our manufacturing campus in Xiamen, China, and our operations in Simi Valley and North Hollywood.
Board members also undertook visits in smaller groups, to our Asia Pacific aftermarket hub in Singapore: and our sensing centre of Focus on markets with high Strong positions excellence in Fribourg, Switzerland.
certification & long in attractive markets life assets 72% of revenue in attractive The Board continue to be impressed at markets where Meggitt has a Challenging technology the depth of our technology expertise, strong competitive position and certification requirements and our employees passion and Competitive positions continue mean few providers can do commitment.
I am pleased with the to be enhanced by the what we do results of the employee engagement development of differentiated Aerospace and defence survey which showed a 4% increase.
technology and operational focused 89% of revenue I am sure that our newly designated performance improvements NonExecutive Director for Employee Engagement, Nancy Gioia, will give further impetus for progress in this area.
The Board has discussed and reviewed the Groups progress on diversity and inclusion throughout the year many of our Board members have direct Strength and depth Progress on experience of improving diversity in of intellectual property strategic priorities international companies and they have provided valuable input to our plans.
supports long-term returns Meggitt Production System, At the end of the year, we approved a our lean improvement tool, Proprietary product and Diversity and Inclusion Policy to show our reinforced across the portfolio manufacturing technologies commitment to this important subject.
with a focus on the red and Upfront investment delivers yellow stage sites strong long term returns The Board recognises the increased Inventory turns improved to 2.7x emphasis on culture under the UK despite strong growth and Corporate Governance Code.
In 2017, investment in buffer stocks Meggitt launched a high performance CSS launched Smart Support, culture initiative, aimed at aligning and leading to a series of long term improving culture across the Group.
The agreements with key aftermarket Board is pleased with the progress made customers with this excellent initiative, and will have the opportunity to experience a high performance culture session with our employees in 2019, as well as see our High quality team Broad and balanced business culture in person as we visit further sites.
High performance culture 52:48 split between original rollout completed to 2,000 I would like to thank all of our employees equipment and aftermarket leaders supporting the No one platform accounts for for their hard work this year, without transition to a new more than 5% of revenue which our many achievements would not organisational structure with Content on almost every western have been possible.
closer alignment to our aircraft installed base of over customers and leaner ways 71,000 civil and defence aircraft of working Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Meggitt PLC 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
