Chairmans statement The past year has been transformational for Melrose in A transformational a number of ways.
We achieved strong results, with statutory revenue for the Melrose Group of year for Melrose 8,605 million 2017: 2,092 million and, despite declaring a statutory operating loss of 392 million 2017: 7 million primarily as a result of the required accounting for the I am pleased to report on 1 GKN acquisition, our adjusted our 16th set of annual results operating profit was 847 million 2017: 279 million, and adjusted since flotation in 2003. diluted earnings per share were up36% on last year.
Justin Dowley, Non-executive Chairman 1 C onsidered by the Board to be a key measure of performance.
Adjusted measures are defined in the glossary to the financial statements on pages 193 to 196.
14 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report This performance builds on the success of Shareholders our public takeover of GKN plc.
Following Melrose has been fortunate to enjoy the bid, we immediately set about initiating long-term support from its key the changes we believe are necessary shareholders, many of whom have been to unlock the full potential of the GKN investors since Melrose was established businesses.
These changes are already in 2003 and have experienced a sustained having a positive effect, as shown in our period of success.
We are very pleased 2018 results.
to welcome the large number of new shareholders who have joined the Melrose We continue to see many opportunities to register as a result of our acquisition of improve GKN and have found enthusiastic GKN.
These shareholders may be less and energised employees within the GKN familiar with the Melrose model and we are businesses who are keen on partnering excited about the opportunity of delivering with us to achieve these ambitions.
While it the same level of performance for them.
is still early days, I would like to thank them all for their hard work already and we look Board matters forward to continuing to work with them to We are pleased that Charlotte Twyning Buy deliver the exciting opportunity before us.
joined us as an additional independent Non-executive Director in October 2018.
Although much of the public attention has Improve A lawyer by training and currently Consents been on the GKN businesses, we have Director with the Heathrow Expansion continued to build and improve our existing Sell Programme Board, Charlotte is already businesses in 2018.
Nortek Global HVAC Our strategy and business model making her mark at Melrose and we is making good progress with its industry See pages 2 to 3 welcome her to the team.
leading StatePoint Technology, backed by the significant investment required to From the start of this year, I relinquished partner with some of the biggest global my roles as Senior Independent Director Strategy names in the data centre sector.
Although and Chairman of the Remuneration Melrose continues to demonstrate the facing challenges elsewhere, Security & Committee to take up the role of inaugural success of its Buy, Improve, Sell strategy.
Smart Technology made an important step Non-executive Chairman.
The previous There are already clear indicators in the in securing the acquisition of IntelliVision Chairman, co-founder Christopher Miller, GKN businesses that the Melrose model Inc. enabling the application of video who had held the position since of simplifying corporate structures and analytics across its product range.
Melrose started in 2003, will continue injecting pace and accountability into While Brush has delivered its restructuring in a full-time executive capacity as businesses while investing heavily for in accordance with its plans and is well set executive Vice-Chairman.
their long-term success continues to for the future, their generator services be effective.
The same strategic focus Further details on this and other changes market has faced further declines.
continues to be applied within Nortek are set out in the Nomination Committee to build on its recent successes.
Further details of these results are contained report on pages 90 to 91, but I would like in the Chief Executives review and Finance to thank Christopher for his contribution Outlook Directors review and I would like to thank to the record of Melrose so far and look There were wider macro challenges all employees for their efforts in helping forward to working with him to achieve for some of our businesses in 2018 and toproduce this strong performance.
further success for Melrose and all we see these continuing into this year.
However, with culture change based Dividend on accountability, backed by significant The Board proposes to pay a final dividend investment and a more disciplined strategic of 3.05 pence per share 2017: 2.8 pence focus being applied to improve all aspects making a total of 4.6 pence for the year of our businesses, we remain confident 2017: 4.2 pence, an increase of 10% in line of further success as we enter 2019. with its progressive annual dividend policy.
This will be paid on 20 May 2019 to those shareholders on the register at 5 April 2019, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 May 2019.
Justin Dowley Non-executive Chairman 7 March 2019 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 15
