JPM Mercantile pp01 18. qxp 11 04 2018 11:06 Page 3 Strategic Report Performance Chairmans I am delighted to present my first annual statement as Chairman of your Company and very Statement pleased to report on a year in which we have achieved an excellent return for shareholders.
Over the year to 31st January 2018, your Company produced a return on net assets of 25.5% against a return of 14.6% for the benchmark.
The share price total return was also 25.5%.
The Companys long term performance has also been very strong, with both the net asset value and share price having outperformed the benchmark over three, five and ten years as well.
Not only has the Company outperformed its UK mid and small cap benchmark over those periods, but that benchmark has also outperformed the broader UK market over the same periods and in seven of the last ten calendar years.
Share Split As a consequence of the Companys strong performance, the share price has risen sharply in recent years.
Indeed, over the last ten years, it has more than doubled.
Whilst this is excellent for our existing shareholders, the Board believes that the high share price may be unhelpful for those investing smaller amounts, monthly savers and dividend re-investment programmes and therefore it is proposing to sub-divide the shares on a 10 for 1 basis.
This is known as a share split.
Following the share split each shareholder will hold ten new ordinary shares for each share held immediately prior to the share split.
We hope that sub-dividing the Companys ordinary shares will make buying the shares more attractive to new investors and increase market liquidity.
I would like to reassure existing shareholders that the splitting of the shares will not affect the overall value of their holdings in the Company as the reduction in the price per share will be offset by a commensurate increase in the number of shares they hold.
By way of example, taking the price as at 31st January 2018 of 2,150.0p per share, following the sub-division each holder of one ordinary share would receive ten new shares which would be priced at 215.0p per share immediately after the share split.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on this proposal at the forthcoming AGM and more details are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Returns and Dividends Earnings per share increased significantly to 61.2p, from 53.2p in 2016, as underlying dividend growth from the portfolio was very strong.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 10.50p per ordinary share in respect of the year to 31st January 2018.
The Board has declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 21.5p, giving a total dividend of 53.0p per share for the year, a 15.2% increase on last years total dividend of 46.0p per share.
The Board intends to spread out the payment of the total dividend more evenly in the current financial year ending 31st January 2019.
Therefore it will increase the level of the first three interim dividends, the first of which will be paid in August, to 12.5p per share pre the share split.
As per usual practice, the Board will determine the level of the fourth interim dividend following the end of the financial year and it will depend on the level of dividends received by the Company.
If the Companys shareholders approve the Boards proposal for a share split see above the first three quarterly interim dividends will be paid at the rate of 1.25p per share.
I would emphasise that the total amount of cash to be received by shareholders in the form of dividends will be the same whether or not the share split is approved.
As you know, we aim for dividend increases at least in line with inflation, and also to continue to build our revenue reserves for any downturn.
At the year end, taking account of the payment of the fourth interim dividend, the revenue reserve stood at 44.5 million, which is the equivalent to 54.3p per share.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 3 JPM Mercantile pp01 18. qxp 11 04 2018 12:44 Page 4 Strategic Report continued Discount and Share Buybacks Over the year, the discount widened marginally from 12.5% to 12.8% on the basis of a cum income calculation with debt at par.
Using the cum income valuation with debt at fair value, the discount moved from 8.6% to 9.5%.
There is an explanation of the calculation methodologies on page 20.
The Board intends to continue to use the share repurchase authority to enhance value, to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares and thereby reduce the volatility of the discount.
It believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares, to be cancelled or held in Treasury, be renewed by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
During the year a total of 5,080,380 shares were repurchased into Treasury, amounting to 5.8% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 98.6 million.
Buying those shares back at a discount to net asset value added approximately 11.0p to the net asset value per share for continuing shareholders.
Gearing The Company ended the year with gearing of 3.5%.
During the year the level of gearing ranged between 0% and 6% geared.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 10% net cash to 20% geared, under normal market conditions.
Gearing is facilitated by two long term debentures and is regularly discussed between the Board and the Investment Managers.
Board Sandy Nairn will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 23rd May 2018.
Sandy has been a Director since 2003 and the Boards Senior Independent Director since 2014.
His considerable investment management experience has been very valuable and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his contribution over the past 15 years.
We have commenced the process to recruit a new Director using an external agency and we will announce their appointment in due course.
Jeremy Tigue will succeed Sandy as the Boards Senior Independent Director.
All of the Directors, with the exception of Sandy Nairn, will stand for annual reappointment at the forthcoming AGM, in accordance with the Boards policy and corporate governance best practice.
The Manager The Board monitors the performance of the Manager, J. P. Morgan, on an ongoing basis.
It judges investment performance over the longer term and also in terms of risk management and internal control, administration, sales, marketing and compliance.
We remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance and believe that J. P. Morgans continuing appointment is in the best interests of all shareholders.
4 JPM Mercantile pp01 18. qxp 11 04 2018 11:06 Page 5 Strategic Report continued Management Fee Change As I have reported previously, the Board agreed with the Manager that the management fee be reduced to 0.45% on the Companys market capitalisation with effect from 1st February 2018, having already been reduced to 0.475% from 1st February 2017.
As a result, the Companys ongoing charges ratio fell to 0.45% for the year.
This level is significantly lower than the average for our investment trust peer group and represents outstanding value for an actively managed portfolio with such a strong long term performance record.
Annual General Meeting Your Companys one hundred and thirty second Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 23rd May 2018 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of J. P. Morgan.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise them in advance with the Company Secretary at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP or via the Ask a Question link on the Companys website.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Outlook The Investment Managers in their report highlight a positive economic backdrop for the companies we are invested in, but also identify some potential risks.
Your Company is well placed to prosper in normal market conditions but also has the wherewithal to take advantage of opportunities should they arise.
As I said at the beginning of this report, mid and smaller UK companies have historically outperformed their larger counterparts and we see no reason for this to be different in the future.
As a long term investment, we look forward to the years ahead, confident that we have the right investment vehicle and the right Investment Managers investing in the right area of the market.
This year celebrates the 150th year of investment trusts as collective investment vehicles.
For good reasons the investment trust sector is in rude health and increasingly popular with individuals and advisors alike.
The benefits of an independent board, the ability to gear, the use of revenue reserves to underpin dividends and the enhancement of net asset value through share repurchases are advantages unavailable for open ended alternatives.
As far as your Company is concerned, we can add significant revenue reserves, low ongoing charges, sheer scale and an historically attractive asset class managed by experts in their field to the list of attractions.
Angus Gordon Lennox Chairman 11th April 2018 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 5
