04 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC PROGRESS AND ORGANIC GROWTH MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS CONTINUES TO MAKE STRATEGIC PROGRESS AND REPORTS CONTINUED ORGANIC GROWTH.
A ttractive markets, with underlying growth characteristics and favourable dynamics 2.
D iversified portfolio of world class brands and assets 3.
M ultiple levers of growth through our Six Strategic Growth Drivers see pages 14 to 15 4.
St rict financial discipline and investment criteria 5.
C ommitted to Being a Force forGood MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 05 Trading and strategy Governance and the Board worldwide as part of a number of initiatives to After several challenging years, 2018 saw a number The recent externally facilitated evaluation exercise remove single-use plastics from the business.
of important strategic developments and a year of confirmed that the Board and its Committees each continued steady organic growth.
No major concerns were Our partner charity, the SEA LIFE Trust, continues identified and the Board was described as strong, with activities to protect marine wildlife.
Supported Our strategy to expand the LEGOLAND parks with a good mix of skills, experience and culture, by the Group, in 2018 it announced a world first footprint continued.
Construction began in the first with a collegiate, supportive and collaborative when construction started on a beluga whale half of the year on the LEGOLAND New York approach.
The review also noted the appropriate sanctuary in Iceland.
This will initially provide a new Resort, which is progressing towards the planned level of constructive challenge during meetings.
home for two beluga whales currently housed in 2020 opening, while at the end of the year we one of our aquariums in China and has the reached agreement with the local province for the Ken Hydon stood down as a Non-executive potential to offer a more natural habitat for other funding of LEGOLAND Korea.
We continue to Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in captive beluga whales in the coming years.
During believe there is the scope for 20 LEGOLAND the year and on behalf of the Board, I would like to the year SEA LIFE Conservation, Welfare and parks worldwide and continue a number of thank Ken for the significant contribution he has Engagement CWE was formed to continually progressive discussions about new partnership made to Merlin over his years of service.
improve standards in animal welfare and advocacy agreements in the key China marketplace.
Andrew Fisher OBE was appointed to the Board as Merlins unique themed accommodation offering a Non-executive Director in July 2018.
Having led Merlins Magic Wand, our partner childrens charity, continues to drive growth across our theme park the successful growth of a number of technologycelebrated its tenth birthday in 2018.
We are therefore pleased to have a strong focused enterprises over the past 20 years, continues to deliver magical experiences around medium term pipeline for a variety of different Andrew will add his experience in digital consumer the world to children who are facing challenges of accommodation formats at multiple locations and technology markets to the Boards already serious illness, disability or adversity, with over across both theme park Operating Groups, wide range of skills.
Andrew has also joined the 600,000 attraction visits taking place since the which will add to the 4,000 plus rooms in the Audit Committee which is now chaired by Trudy charity began.
The charity also takes the magic to current portfolio.
Rautio, who brings a wealth of relevant financial local childrens organisations with community experience to the role.
outreach activities, and has now installed 46 In the Midway Attractions Operating Group, 2018 MagicSpaces in childrens homes and hospitals.
saw the pilot openings of the new Intellectual Further details on Merlins Corporate Governance As active members of the Members of Business Property IP based attraction formats, Peppa Pig arrangements and activities are set out in the Disability Forum we also work to further improve World of Play and The Bear Grylls Adventure, Corporate Governance Statement and Report on experiences for guests with accessibility challenges.
aimed at the pre-school and adventure seeker pages 58 to 65. markets respectively.
While these attractions are Further details, together with our approach to still in their infancy, we are encouraged as they Dividends non-financial reporting, are set out on pages continue to broaden the Groups appeal within At the Annual General Meeting in May, the Board 48 to 57. different markets and geographies.
Furthermore, will be recommending that we pay a final dividend these investments reflect our ever-growing of 5.5 pence per share.
Taken together with the Our people relationships with third party IP holders who seek interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share paid last I am, as always, extremely grateful to Merlins to leverage their content through location September, this will equate to a full year dividend of management team and our many thousands of based entertainment.
8.0 pence per share, up 8.1% on 2017. employees across the world who continue to drive the Groups strategic progress and are the With respect to 2018 trading, Midway Attractions Responsibility and sustainability foundation of our relations with our guests, saw the key London market starting to recover Merlin is committed to responsible corporate communities and other stakeholders.
from the impacts of terrorism that had so affected citizenship.
This commitment informs our 2017 performance.
In LEGOLAND Parks, a governance structures and the operation of our Looking forward broadly flat performance in the existing estate was businesses, notably in the area of health and safety With Merlins core strengths and assets, together augmented by the expansion of the LEGOLAND where a constant focus on keeping our guests, with the backdrop of evolving, but attractive, Japan Resort by adding a hotel and SEA LIFE employees and other visitors safe and secure is our market fundamentals, we continue to see Centre to the park that had opened in 2017, with overriding priority.
significant global opportunity for the Company in themed accommodation expansion in other parks 2019 and beyond.
Finally, Resort Theme Our commitment to reducing our environmental Parks reported strong organic growth driven by impact continues with a particular focus in 2018 on Sir John Sunderland the major resorts at Alton Towers and Gardaland, plastic pollution.
The Group partnered with Chairman reflecting ongoing product investment and Coca-Cola Great Britain in an innovative initiative 27 February 2019 favourable weather.
The trading performance to encourage more recycling and towards the end is reviewed in further detail within this of the year the Group announced the phasing out Annual Report.
of plastic straws within all of its owned attractions
