18 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT KWEK LENG BENG Chairman 2019 will be another challenging year for the Group, with significant capital projects underway and several large hotels earmarked for major renovations.
These investments will be carefully managed and phased to deliver the right returns to shareholders and underline the Groups intention to maintain strict control of costs throughout the business.
he hospitality industry faced a range of geo-political and global economic During 2018, the Group continued to make progress in its hotel refurbishment Theadwinds in 2018, many of which look set to continue in the current year, programme including the Mayfair hotel in London, the Orchard Hotel in including US China trade relations, Brexit and increasing minimum wage levels Singapore and smaller scale refurbishment work in other properties to improve in many jurisdictions.
its product offerings and maintain competitiveness.
The Boards priority is to evaluate and develop new and innovative strategic The refurbishment work of the Mayfair hotel in London started during plans to meet the challenges facing our fast-changing operating environment.
the fourth quarter of 2017 on a phased basis with partial closures of guest The shortage of talentfrom rank and file to senior managementis rooms.
The property was then fully closed in July 2018 to facilitate on-going intensifying with many new hotels being built around the world, not to mention refurbishment work to re-position it as the Groups luxury flagship hotel when it the growth of Airbnb and serviced apartments.
Any hospitality business that re-opens in Q2 this year.
Total cost is estimated to be around 50m.
wants to progress will need to evolve and embrace these changes to stay relevant The Mayfair hotel has been one of the Groups biggest revenue and profit and profitable in the immediate and medium term.
Restoring profitability in our contributors.
The closure of the hotel resulted in an estimated 20m reduction New York hotels also remains at the top of the Boards objectives.
in revenue and 12m reduction in operating profit during the financial year Meanwhile, we continue to invest in and reposition our hotels.
We look forward ended 31 December 2018 with the Group continuing to incur certain fixed costs to our Mayfair hotel being rebranded and opened as The Biltmore, Mayfair in such as payroll and property related expenditure at the hotel.
the second quarter of this year.
This is the first opening under Hiltons new LXR In Singapore, refurbishment work on the Orchard Hotel commenced in Q4 Hotels & Resorts collection in Europe.
This also will mark the Groups debut 2018 and is expected to complete by Q2 this year.
This upgrading of the in the London five-star deluxe market and it is our aim to fast track our lost property is estimated to cost around S$20m 11m.
The hotel will remain earnings growth at this hotel after it re-opens.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 19 operational during the refurbishment period with phased room closures that are MANAGEMENT CHANGES not expected to have a material revenue impact.
The departure of three Directors Jennifer Fox, Sue Farr and Gervase MacGregor in the latter half of the year created an opportunity to reConcerns about Brexit have affected the Groups UK hotels especially in examine the composition of the Groups Board and its committee.
On the London, where the hotels started to face difficulties in recruiting EU workers recommendation of the Nominations Committee, His Excellency Shaukat which currently comprise more than half of the London workforce.
The Aziz was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee in November 2018, minimum wage increase that came into force in 2018 has further added having served as a member of the Committee since 16 June 2009, and Christian pressures to the Groups increasing labour costs.
fide Charnac was appointed as a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, respectively during 2018.
The Groups New York hotels generated 159m during 2018 which is about 18% of total hotel revenue.
However, the region remained loss-making due to its As previously reported, the Board is conducting a search for a permanent Group inflexible operating cost structure arising mainly from the employment of trade Chief Executive Officer and new independent Non-Executive Directors.
regards to the search for a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer, we remain open to either hiring an external candidate or promoting talent from within By comparison, the Groups hotels in New Zealand generated 85m of revenue the Group.
Following the departure of Ms Fox, Kian Seng Tan was appointed with an operating profit of 36m.
This region continued to benefit from the interim Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 September 2018. high visitor numbers to the country, as well as the re-opening of M Social Auckland in the last quarter of 2017 and the acquisition of Millennium New DIVIDENDS Plymouth in February 2018.
The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend of 2.15p per share 2017: 4.42p taking into account the Groups current cash position and future capital The European and Asian regions contributed 177m and 307m of hotel expenditure requirements.
Together with the interim ordinary dividend of revenue respectively in 2018 or 55% of the Groups hotel revenue.
The 2.08p per share 2017: 2.08p, the total ordinary dividend for 2018 is 4.23p per combined operating profit from these two regions in 2018 was 99m or 77% of share 2017: 6.50p.
the Groups total hotel operating profit.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held Reported total revenue for the year decreased by 11m or 1.1% to 997m on 10 May 2019, the final dividend will be paid on 17 May 2019 to shareholders 2017: 1,008m.
Reported hotel revenue fell by 13m or 1.5% to 867m on the register on 15 March 2019.
Property revenue of 65m was higher by 3m or 4.8% 2017: 62m.
