Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans statement The focus on operational efficiencies and improved sales force effectiveness has strengthened the business.
The solid organic growth during 2018 demonstrates that the benefits of the strategy are showing through.
The Group has continued to invest in customerDear Shareholders, focused research and development in selected I am pleased to be introducing new advanced materials technologies to provide Morgans Annual Report for 2018 better solutions for our customers and platforms having taken over as Chairman of for growth in our key markets.
A great example of this is the investments made in our Korea and the Group on 1 January 2019.
Hudson, US sites in the manufacture of chemical I should first like to pay tribute to the stewardship of vapour deposition silicon carbide for the Andrew Shilston who retired from corporate life semiconductor industry.
at the end of 2018 after having served as our I should like to thank our employees for their Chairman for six years.
During Andrews tenure, commitment and the energy they are showing he completely refreshed the Board of Directors as we continue through this period of transition.
and, through his guidance and the development I am particularly pleased with the sustained of new Directors, cultivated an effective Board improvement in our safety record as a result of the dynamic.
With a new CEO and CFO in place, continued focus this received at our sites during the Group embarked on a new strategy which, 2018.
The Morgan Code, which defines how we now three years in, is on track delivering a work and demonstrates our commitment to healthy and sustainable business.
We wish him ensuring a safe workplace and ethical behaviour, well in his retirement, and thank him for his wise was launched during 2018 and every employee and skilful chairmanship.
I am committed to I served on the Board of Morgan Advanced supporting our employees through robust Materials for five years as a non-executive governance and the promotion of ethical practice.
Director before stepping up as Chairman and, Our outlook during that time, the Group has continued to evolve to keep pace with the changing needs of As we move into 2019, the outlook is more our customers, adopt new technologies and challenging as global economic growth rates reflect the needs of our wider stakeholders.
However, the good progress made in the implementation of strategy Our purpose and continued investments in research and Morgan provides advanced materials to help development, our operational processes and make more efficient use of the worlds resources our employees along with the focus on financial and to improve the quality of life.
health, will serve the Group well during 2019 and beyond.
I am excited to be part of that Over the last three years, Pete Raby as CEO and journey and look forward to seeing what can be his team have focused on delivering the six strategic achieved in 2019. priorities with a view to securing the foundations for a sustainable future.
In 2018 we further simplified the organisation with the planned Douglas Caster CBE FIET divestment of the Composites and Defence Chairman Systems business.
The focus on operational efficiencies and improved sales force effectiveness has strengthened the business.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 3
