STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chairmans statement 3 Building on opportunities Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman Dear fellow Shareholder Introduction and overview both grow into new local market segments As a company we greatly value our It gives me great pleasure to report to fellow by serving them efficiently from our existing relationships with customers, local partners shareholders that National Express has locations and begin to offer comprehensive and regulators.
This is demonstrated by our enjoyed a record-breaking 2018.
The Group door-to-door journeys for customers.
award-winning and pioneering Bus Alliance delivered significant increases in revenue, in the West Midlands and the long-term profit and free cash: our profit performance As a Board we have worked closely with the nature of our regional and urban contracts was a record on every measure.
Driving this Executive team as they develop interesting in Spain, for example.
We also believe we were record performances in both our North ideas around the future of transport and have an important role to play in society, American and ALSA divisions.
We believe that this model, with which is why we were so pleased to and coach businesses also had a very customers looking for seamless end-tobecome the first private transport group to strong year, in contrast to some of the end journey information and options through become a Living Wage Foundation pervasive commentary around our sector.
a single technology platform, is likely to accredited employer in the UK.
National These record-breaking results have been It is this combination of consistently strong Express is investing now to position delivered through a combination of organic financial performance with an active sense ourselves appropriately in this area.
As our growth and new acquisitions.
The Group of our responsibility as an employer that significant growth in digital revenue, with again carried more passengers than it did helped us secure the accolade of Britains increasingly sophisticated online and app the year before and our targeted acquisition Most Admired Transport Company in the presences and industry-leading Revenue strategy has added prime new businesses 2018 Management Today awards.
I would Management Systems in the UK and Spain to our portfolio.
We augmented this with like to personally commend Dean, Chris, demonstrate, we are already seeing the business wins, from the substantial urban Matt and the rest of the Executive team for benefit of targeted investment in areas bus operation in Rabat, Morocco which will their hard work to deliver both this record where customers want innovation and make us the largest private operator in that result and such an accolade.
This is an approach that country to the 20 smaller tuck in contracts wewill maintain.
We will also start our next The year ahead A trusted operator and partner German rail operation the Rhine-Ruhr The Board expects the Group to build again The Board has always been greatly Express later this year.
on these results to deliver further growth in impressed with Deans determination and 2019.
While there remains considerable This combination of organic growth, focus on safety within our business.
In the uncertainty regarding Brexit at the time of targeted acquisitions and strategic contract last year, the Group has significantly writing, as a business we have reviewed a wins is helping deepen our presence in expanded the number of vehicles fitted with range of potential scenarios and do not significant urban markets as well as Lytx DriveCam smart safety cameras and believe we are exposed to any material diversify our earnings streams.
As Dean rolled out enhanced driver monitoring.
Nonetheless, Finch makes clear in his Group Chief These technologies are also augmented as set out in the Finance Directors review Executives report, we are seeking to build a with personalised feedback sessions on page 17 and the Risk section on page multi-modal presence in selected large and between managers and drivers, drawing on 39, we have sought to mitigate any potential wealthy cities, to provide a range of services the information generated.
in an efficient, safe and valued manner.
We and coach businesses were again awarded are building platforms from which we can five-star British Safety Council awards.
Dividend It is with this confidence in mind that the Board is recommending, for the third successive year, a 10% increase in the final Governance highlights dividend for 2018 to 10.17 pence which will bring the full year dividend to 14.86 pence The Board is fully committed to ensuring that high standards of good governance are in per share.
Subject to shareholder approval place and consistently applied in the boardroom and throughout the organisation.
It also of the final dividend at the AGM, it will be paid on 14 May to those shareholders embraces the increased emphasis of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which registered on 23 April 2019. applies to the Company from 2019.
This pronounces that a positive relationship between companies, shareholders and other stakeholders including the workforce is a driver of long-term sustainable growth and having a strong workplace culture aligned with the Companys purpose, business strategy and values is an essential underpin to any successful business.
At National Express, many of these fundamentals already exist, but during the rest of this year the Board and management will be looking at ways in which Sir John Armitt CBE we can further strengthen and extend our current position in response to the new Code.
Chairman 28 February 2019 Read more p62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
