OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 01 Chairmans statement 2018 was another successful year for OSB, as wecontinued to deliver growth in our chosen marketsegments.
This strong performance has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 10.3 pence per share.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, this will take the full year dividend to 14.6 pence per share, an increase of 14% over 2017.
I am proud that we continue to make progress towards becoming our customers favourite bank, improving our customer net promoter score from 62 to 63 for the year and we welcomed more than 40,000 new savers to our Kent Reliance franchise.
In addition to our core lending segments, we identified and developed propositions in adjacent product areas and over time these will add some diversification to our balance sheet, as well as leverage the Groups core capabilities to grow our high quality secured lending portfolio.
Our relaunched Mission, Vision and Values described in more detail on page 62 added focus to the efforts of our talented and dedicated people.
I am particularly pleased to see this reflected in our entry into The Sunday Times Top 100 Best Companies to Work For, underpinned by a record 94% participation.
We added expertise to our Board and I am delighted to welcome Sarah Hedger as aNon-Executive Director of the Bank.
Sarah brings a wealth of corporate finance experience and I look forward to working with her.
I would also like to extend my personal thanks to Andrew Doman who stepped down from the Board in May 2018.
No chairmans report would be complete at the moment without highlighting the uncertain and inclement economic climate in which we operate, exacerbated by lackof clarity about the eventual Brexit outcome.
However, I am confident that thecombination of our engaged workforce, highly-focused executive team and committed Board will stand us in good stead.
This, coupled with our focus on delivering value for our customers and a sensible approach to risk, means I am confident that OneSavings Bank will continue to deliver growth and strong returns for our owners.
