Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans Introduction David Lowden Chairman businesses performed strongly and there strategic priorities.
Our Large, High Potential 2018 Performance were many highlights.
In 2017, we made markets, namely the US, Germany, South I am delighted to report that the Group significant investment in Australia.
This East Asia, Greater China and Latin America, delivered another record performance in investment delivered a strong 2018, exiting now representing around a third of the the year ended 31 December 2018.
The with growth of 25% in the fourth quarter.
Group, grew 25% in the year with all strong performance this year demonstrates We opened a new office in Vietnam, our countries delivering record performances.
the consistent execution of our strategy fifth country in South East Asia, and India These strategic investments will continue in and is testimony to the dedication, ability delivered growth of 49% and now has over 2019, as well as in those businesses where and hard work of our people across 120 fee earners.
we are seeing strong growth.
As I anticipated in my statement last year, We, as a Board, continue to be impressed the UK remained challenging.
Market by our staff, both operational and nonsentiment remained weak, with Brexit The Group delivered another operational, who have responded with related uncertainty impacting decisionenthusiasm, dedication and commitment making by both clients and candidates, record performance.
over the pace of change within the Group particularly at the more senior end of over recent years.
However, Page Personnel, our clerical and part qualified business We entered the year optimistically, but with Dividends representing 25% of the UK, had a caution, in some key markets.
We paid over 40m in ordinary dividends the successful delivery of our strategy in 2018 and returned over 40m to throughout 2018, market expectations rose The Americas was our fastest growing shareholders by way of a special dividend.
further as the year progressed, with the region, up 27%.
In North America, the We have now paid special dividends actual result again being delivered in line US also had a record year, growing 25%, totalling 150m in the last four years.
with our strategy of diversification, both in terms of location and discipline, delivering We generated cash from operations of Gross profit was up 15.9% in constant notable performances from our regional 131.7m in 2018 and ended the year with currencies, with operating profit up 20.7% offices in Boston, Chicago, Houston and cash balances of 97.7m and a level of at 142.5m.
Our largest region, Europe, Los Angeles.
Latin America, now 6% of the distributable reserves that support more Middle East and Africa, delivered a record Group and with a headcount of over 800, than three times this annual dividend.
Given year, up 17.9% in gross profit terms.
There also had a record year, up 30%.
Mexico this cash position, levels of distributable was strong growth from Germany, up 29%, ended the year as the largest country in reserves and our results for the year, we with our Interim business now representing the region 33% and Brazil returned propose to increase the final dividend 20% of the business.
When taken together with the and ended the year as our largest country countries, Argentina, Chile, Colombia and interim dividend paid in October of 4.1p, in terms of gross profit, representing 17% Peru, now have a combined headcount of this implies a total dividend of 13.1p, an of the Group in the fourth quarter.
over 300 and also delivered a record year.
Our Asia Pacific region grew 20.6%, with The PageGroup leadership team continued This ordinary dividend of 13.1p is covered records in many of our businesses including to make further progress on the Groups 2.5 times by earnings, with a yield of 2.9%.
Greater China, which was up 19%.
All 1 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 If the special dividend is taken into perspectives we review in terms of Following the issue of the new UK account, using the year end share price appointments to the Board.
Discussions Corporate Governance Code, we will of 450.8p, the yield increases to just are held each year, focusing on the revisit these procedures to allow greater under 6%.
development and succession of the emphasis on these areas.
This will allow Executive Directors, Executive Board us to further understand the views of Dividend Per Share p members and other senior managers the Companys key stakeholders and in the Group.
This ensures a pipeline to describe in the Annual Report from 30 Special dividend of talented senior individuals is present next year how their interests have been 27.5 within the business and that existing considered in Board discussions.
25.83 25.23 16.0 senior executives are being developed.
24 Looking Ahead 12.73 12.73 As mentioned last year, Danuta Gray With the emergence of what has been decided not to stand for re-election as described as the fourth industrial a Director of the Company and stepped 18.44 revolution, it is clear that we are in a 18 down from the Board at the AGM on 6.46 period of innovation on many fronts.
We are extremely grateful From artificial intelligence and machine to Danuta for her hard work and learning, to digitalisation, there is a range expertise over the last four years and 12 13.1 12.50 12.50 of technologies that are likely to impact 11.98 on behalf of the Board of PageGroup, 11.5 businesses in the near future.
Our 11.0 I would like to thank Danuta for her 10.5 ongoing investment in this technology significant contribution and wish her is helping us to deliver a more bespoke every success in the future.
6 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 and targeted service to our clients Full details of the work of the Board Five-year Ordinary Dividend CAGR 4.5% and candidates.
and subjects discussed in the year As we enter 2019, we are also are set out in the Corporate Board increasingly mindful of the Governance Report.
Todays business world is continually heightened uncertainty regarding the evolving and presents a range of risks Culture and Purpose macroeconomic outlook.
This is why it is global disruption, political instability, such PageGroups culture is unique in the essential to maintain the right mix of as Brexit in the UK, the impact of trade sector.
It is a global culture that delivers skills and experience on the Board to tariffs particularly in Mainland China, a consistent approach both internally mitigate these risks effectively and to social unrest in France and broader and externally.
It is one of meritocracy, work with the Executive team to deliver macroeconomic uncertainties globally, with strong Company and peer group the Groups strategy.
do not encourage candidates to make recognition for achievements.
The job moves, or for clients to make One of the key elements of my role as processes by which we do business, hiring decisions.
Chairman is to oversee a Board with and our team based approach is the a diverse range of thought, experience, foundation of the Group.
However, our proven strategy remains and perspective.
Investment will continue in Our purpose is to change lives for I have consistently focused on Board our Large, High Potential markets, as people through creating opportunity composition since I became Chairman well as in those markets with favourable to reach their potential.
We aim to of the Board in December 2015. trading conditions.
We continue to work ensure that everyone is a step closer towards our Vision of 10,000 headcount, We support the Hampton-Alexander to realising their potential and achieving 1bn gross profit and 200m-250m of review and the requirement to their ambitions.
We change lives by operating profit.
disclose the gender balance of senior identifying and matching people with management.
I am pleased to say that the roles that they thrive in.
Challenges arising from changes in we have already exceeded the target technology, markets, economies and Your Board attended the Global for FTSE 350 Boards to have 33% behaviours makes the delivery of our Leadership Conference in Frankfurt in representation by women by 2020 for strategy even more important.
This September, where it was clear that the the Main Board.
However, we note that can only be done successfully with culture and purpose of PageGroup was we have further to go with the Executive excellent people.
There is no doubt that this has Board, where the representation is Board, therefore, I would like to thank helped to deliver the strategy and to currently 100% male.
This outcome all our staff again for their continued contribute to the performance of the has been driven by our organic growth contribution and for all their significant Group, as well as to attract and retain strategy of promoting from within, which achievements in 2018. the best talent.
means addressing this imbalance will take time.
We have however been Stakeholder and Workforce working actively on this.
In 2012, we Engagement launched our Women@Page network, which allows women from all over the The Board at PageGroup already has world to network, meet virtually and offer David Lowden procedures in place to understand the peer support.
We also have a successful Chairman concerns of the workforce and these are maternity coaching programme, and as discussed regularly in Board meetings.
a result have seen our maternity return Where decisions are made at Board rates increase.
level that affect staff, their views and As a Board, we also look to internal concerns are taken into account by the experience as being one of the core Directors.
Strategic Report | 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Financial Strategic People Operational Highly profitable Sustainable organic growth Team-based service delivery Strong brands Business Maintain a strong balance Diversification to mitigate Talent and skills Effective use of technology Model sheet cyclicality by geography, development retention brand and discipline Highly cash generative Focus on operational P4 efficiency Long-term investment into To be the leading specialist Career development Assurance of a quality core markets: recruiter in each of the structure service markets in which we operate Large, High Potential: Effective recruitment process Strategy Large, Proven: and Small and Medium, P7 High Margin Macro-economic exposure Shift in business model People development Technology: systems transformation and Foreign exchange translation Delivery of operational Attraction and retention change: data security: risk efficiencies Risks brand reputation: financial management and control: fiscal and legal compliance P29 Gross profit growth Fee earner headcount Employee satisfaction survey Measurement performed growth at a granular level Gross profit diversification Management experience Gross profit per fee earner KPIs Earnings per share Fee earner:operational Net cash support staff ratio P17 Perm:Temp ratio Conversion rate EPS growth: three year Strategic targets Leadership and people Cost and financial cumulative development management Systems and innovation PBT performance Retention succession Risk management and Remuneration internal controls Comparator gross profit growth IT strategic development P58 Maintain a strong balance Return surplus cash to Ensure dividends are paid at First use of cash is to satisfy sheet shareholders by special sustainable levels such that operational and investment dividends and or share investment in the business needs, as well as to hedge Dividend buybacks and its people is maintained liabilities under the Groups Policy share plans P9 3 | Strategic Report
