A1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I have the pleasure of introducing my first Annual Report and Accounts as Chairman of Paragon Banking Group PLC, following a year which has seen growth in our major business lines, significant acquisitions and substantial fund-raising transactions.
This represents continued progress in the Groups strategic development as a banking group deriving significant funding from retail deposits, while providing finance options for underserved UK customers.
The increasing volume of new business in the Groups Commercial Lending division has also progressed the asset diversification strategy.
We continue to target investment and capital to support the Groups Fiona Clutterbuck medium-term objective of improving net interest margin and cost efficiency, with increasing business volumes.
Chairman I hope you find this report useful in understanding our business and our progress in the year.
The business The business is managed through three lending divisions, Mortgages, including buy-to-let, Commercial Lending and Idem Capital, with each division offering a range of specialist lending propositions.
The mortgage division continues to support professional landlords in the private rented sector, which remains an important part of the nations housing provision.
During the year the acquisition of Titlestone in July accelerated the development of the Groups development finance offering, increasing our ability to provide funding, particularly to small and medium scale residential developers in the UK, an underserved sector of that market.
The year has also seen the launch of the Groups first structured lending facilities, providing funding to specialist non-bank lenders.
Significant expenditure has been made in the development of the Groups business lines during 2018 and further investments are anticipated in the coming year.
The Groups business is described more fully in Section A2 Results The growth in the Groups new origination flows, up 25.9% to 2,333.2 million, including loans made by the acquired businesses, contributed to an increase in underlying profit by 7.8% to 156.5 million excluding items such as the 28.0 million gain on sale of Idem Capital assets, which do not arise from the underlying operations of the business.
Profit before tax on the statutory basis grew by 25.3% to 181.5 million.
This led to underlying earnings per share EPS increasing by 11.3% to 48.2 pence 2017: 43.3 pence and statutory EPS increasing to 55.9 pence 2017: 43.1 pence.
Underlying return on tangible equity reached 14.0% 2017: 13.5%, 16.1% on the statutory basis 2017: 13.4%.
Funding was enhanced with the growth of the Groups savings deposit base to 5.3 billion from 3.6 billion a year earlier, further utilisation of Bank of England facilities and a 435.3 million securitisation transaction.
The Groups capital position remains strong, with a regulatory Core Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 13.8% 2017: 15.9%, representing a more efficient capital position.
The financial results and operational performance are reviewed in Section A3 PAGE 10 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Stakeholders The Group is supportive of efforts across the corporate sector to enhance stakeholder engagement.
The Group continues to support the Women in Finance initiative and published its first progress report in January 2018.
We have also submitted data to the Hampton-Alexander review team.
In March we published our gender pay gap under government rules for the first time and fully support the drive for greater workplace diversity.
We recognise the importance of the contribution of the people who work for the Group to its results in the year and I would like to thank all of them for their hard work and dedication throughout the period.
Social responsibility issues are discussed in Section A5 Governance I was appointed Chairman in the year, in succession to Bob Dench, after a rigorous and challenging process and am currently enjoying a detailed induction into all aspects of the Groups businesses.
Following my appointment as Chairman, Peter Hartill and Hugo Tudor were appointed to replace me as Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman respectively, I look forward to working with the newly structured team going forward.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to my predecessor as Chairman, Bob Dench, for the important part he has played in the evolution of the Group over the last 14 years and the support he has given to me, and I also wish to express my gratitude to Alan Fletcher and Pat Newberry, who will step down from the Board in December.
In addition to our usual workload, the entire Board has been much involved with the further development of the Groups strategy, particularly the evaluation and monitoring of acquisitions and their integration into the Group.
I thank my colleagues for their diligence in these matters.
The Group is committed to good corporate governance and we are currently reviewing the updated UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and are confident that we are well placed for the introduction of the new code for the year ending 30 September 2020.
Corporate governance is discussed in Section B3 Risk The corporate restructuring in September 2017 enabled the Group to consolidate a number of risk oversight and governance arrangements.
The resulting changes have been embedded during the year, resulting in a more efficient and effective framework with which to manage the Groups key risks.
Particular focus has been given in the past year to enhancing the Groups cyber security and operational resilience capabilities, with additional investment in both systems and people.
This will continue to be a key priority in future years.
Data protection has been another key priority given the significance of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018.
Significant focus also continues to be given to the Groups preparations for the regulatory approval process for its IRB approach for credit risk.
The Risk Management report is set out in Section B6 Shareholder returns The positive result for the year has enabled the Board to increase its dividend levels, in accordance with the policy previously announced.
We have declared a final dividend for the year of 13.9 pence per share, bringing the dividend for the year to 19.4 pence per share, up 23.6% from the 15.7 pence declared for 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
25.0 million excluding costs has also been spent on the share buy-back programme.
Each of these actions enhances returns for shareholders.
Conclusion The year has been one of substantial development for the Group.
The impact of the group restructuring in September 2017 has continued to work through the business, while the acquisitions and new product launches have contributed to changing the Groups profile.
Despite the economic and political uncertainties facing the UK, including the lack of clarity surrounding Brexit, I remain confident that the strength of the Groups existing business, its development plans and its ability to respond to a changing environment, position us well to deliver strong growth and sustainable returns into the future.
Fiona Clutterbuck Chairman 21 November 2018 PAGE 11 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
