Chairmans statement Sir John Parker Chairman Our success, however, needs to be viewed in a broader socialand political context.
The Government has expressed Pennons record concern about certain behaviours displayed bysome water companies and Ofwat is looking to address these.
Work demonstrates that the Board needs to be done to restore trust and confidence in the sector and we fully support Ofwats agenda of reform.
I am pleased to report that South West Water is already carrying is behaving in a responsible out its business in line with theimprovements outlined.
We remain committed to transparency, independent governance way to our customers, our and sharing financial outperformance with our customers.
workforce, our suppliers The Groups final dividend of 26.62 pence per share is an increase of 7.0% and continues our 10-year, sector-leading dividend policy to 2020 of retail price index plus 4% and our shareholders.
Dividends per share are expected to almost double over the 10 years of the policy.
In addition, we continue to share our success with customers through South West Waters innovative WaterShare mechanism Dear Shareholder with 79 million of totalcumulative benefits identified The Group is once again reporting a strong year.
In the since 2015 to be shared through future billreductions, water business, strong operational and financial performance service improvements and reinvestment.
underpinned our sector-leading return on regulated equity RoRE.
In our waste operations, the Group made good Safety progress towards bringing Viridors remaining energy The Group treats the issue of safety very seriously and has recovery facilities ERFs on stream.
taken steps to enhance its performance in this crucial area with the injection of fresh expertise at both board and Across the Group, we delivered high levels of service to our executive level.
customers, and improved the quality of our communication and engagement with both them and our workforce.
Our unified structure is operating well, having brought together all aspects of the Group under Pennon, providing a clear line of sight operationally and strategically into South West Water, Viridor and Pennon Water Services.
Iparticularly welcome the way we have delivered improvements in safety and environmental incident management over thepast year.
Our new vision and values emphasise to employees and external stakeholders that we strive to be atrusted and responsible company delivering high-quality, 89 158 resilient services in a safe, reliable and sustainable manner.
Lost time number of apprenticeships injuries 2017 which started in 2017 18 08 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Jon Butterworth was appointed as a new independent and this is a key driver of engagement.
Our corporate non-executive director of South West Water in September valueof trusted has particular resonance for all our 2017.
In the role of independent scrutineer of health and stakeholders.
Respect for human rights is incorporated safety processes across the Group, he is giving us the intoour employment practices and our values see the benefit of his years of operational and safety experience Directors report on page 103 for more details.
gained in the electricity and gas industry.
Jon attends We have retained our emphasis on attracting graduates Pennons main Board meetings, where safety continues and offering apprenticeships while recognising the need tobe the first item for discussion on the agenda.
During tocontinually train and develop our people in line with best theyear, our director of Health, Safety, Security and practice.
The Governments new apprenticeship standards Assurance continued to lead the development of our mean that apprenticeships are now on offer at all stages HomeSafe programme, which is designed to deliver ofthe employee development lifecycle, from entry level thehighest standards of health and safety performance through to executive level, and we are launching a range see page 26 for further details.
TheBoard has given its ofnew programmes in areas such as project management wholehearted support to HomeSafe which commenced and engineering.
Of particular note this year has been the Group-wide roll-out in April2018, following the successful six-fold growth in apprenticeships across the Group.
completion of pilots atSouth West Water and Viridor.
Employees and culture I firmly believe organisations that embody a clear sense of The most successful workplace cultures vision and purpose deliver significant, measurable results.
Such organisations acquire and retain the best employees, deliver the most for customers, attract the best clients and increase returns for shareholders.
With that in mind, I would Sustainability like to take the opportunity to thank all our employees for As one of the UKs largest environmental infrastructure their dedication and hard work in serving our customers, groups, we take our responsibilities to the environment and communities and other stakeholders during 2017 18 communities in which we operate very seriously.
Customers particularly during the severe weather experienced in expect us to deliver a variety of critical services clean March 2018. andsafe drinking water, reliable removal and disposal ofwastewater, recycling, energy recovery and the safe Following last years appointment of a Group director handling and landfill disposal of waste.
Performing all of ofHR, we are seeing a refreshed dialogue with our thistothe benefit of the various communities we serve workforce through a variety of initiatives.
Our first throughout theUK, and providing the consistent investment Group-wide integrated employee survey has given us a that underwrites this activity, amounts to a significant toolfor benchmarking Pennons workplace culture against socialcontribution.
other companies and is discussed further on page 26.
Themost successful workplace cultures are built on trust Bringing resources to life Trusted Given our closer working across Pennon as part of the We do the right thing for Groups evolutionary development, we reviewed the our customers and stakeholders different visions and values in place across the Group and devised a new single vision Bringing resources Collaborative tolife with strong supporting values of trusted, We forge strong relationships, working responsible, collaborative and progressive.
Involving together to make a positive impact extensive input from our employees, our new vision and values build on the Groups strengths and will help drive our strategic priorities over the long term.
Responsible Our new vision and values also resonate with all our We keep our promises to our customers, stakeholders, both internal and external.
It is our job as communities and each other aBoard to set the tone from the top and to live upto our values consistently and with integrity and transparency.
Progressive Pennon is building the Group into a trusted entity wherever we work within local communities and across the UK.
We are always looking for new ways to improve and make life better 09 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chairmans statement continued Pennon is pioneering a sustainable financing framework We are a key employer in the South West and nationally tointegrate commitments to environmental and social andcontinue to invest in our people.
We aredelivering objectives or expenditure into a variety of funding appropriate rewards to shareholders, a significant number opportunities across the Group see pages 42 and 49 being our employees, many of whom are residents of the for further information.
South West, and pension funds that willhelp to provide financial security to members of the public in retirement.
As a sustainable business, we seek continuous improvement Webelieve this represents responsible leadership and in our waste management operations, in our water and willcontinue to behave in a manner that reflects our values.
wastewater services and in our ability to manage environmental incidents.
Our director of Environment and Board changes Sustainability, who was appointed last year, is helping us to In line with governance best practice, Martin Angle, address environmental issues.
There has been significant Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration investment already in mitigating the risk of flooding and Committee, who has been a Director for nine years, will pollution and I am confident the Group will maintain stand down from the Board on 31 December 2018.
Board plans to make an announcement about a successor shortly.
In order to allow a period of continuity with a replacement, Martin will stand for reappointment at the AGM on 5 July 2018.
I would like to thank Martin for his Our new governance structure has considerable contribution to the Groups success and bedded in well and we have continued strong governance over the years.
During the year, South West Water appointed Jon Butterworth as a new independent non-executive director and Matthew Taylor as senior independent director.
While Pennons record demonstrates that the Board is behaving Jon and Matthews roles are with South West Water, under ina responsible way to all our stakeholders, including Pennons governance structure they and their colleague ourcustomers, our workforce, our suppliers and our Martin Hagen, South West Waters third independent shareholders.
We are maintaining high levels of investment non-executive director, attend the Pennon Board and toensure customers receive the best possible service, while areencouraged to contribute to a range of issues from controlling bills to households and providing supportand aSouth West Water perspective.
assistance to those customers in vulnerable circumstances.
The Board received an in-depth tour of the Mayflower treatment plant under construction.
10 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Governance Board diversity Our new governance structure has bedded in well and wehave continued to refine Board processes.
All our independent Non-Executive Directors have clear line of sight into South West Water, Viridor and Pennon Water Services.
As we look toanother year of operations, I welcome the way the new Group Board structure and the Pennon Executive have settled into what I believe is an efficient and effective organisation in which we can deploy the full strengths of our independent Directors.
The executive teams at South West Water, Viridor and Pennon Water Services have also shown dedication, drive and enthusiasm, and their transparency 2 4 with the Board has been a highlight.
Women Men Diversity The Board and Group actively promote equality and diversity in the workplace and we have approved a new Group diversity and inclusion policy.
We are committed tothe search for Board candidates being conducted andappointments being made on merit and with due regard for the benefits of gender and ethnic diversity.
TheNovember 2017 Hampton-Alexander Review: FTSEWomen Leaders listed Pennon at number 40 in its FTSE 250 rankings for women on boards and in leadership, with a score of 33.3%.
Both Chris Loughlin and I are members of the 30% Club, aforum with a goal of achieving aminimum of 30% women on FTSE 350 boards by 2020.
READ MORE ON PAGE 81 Outlook: building success, earning trust There are many reasons why Pennon is well placed for the future.
Confidence in our financial resilience is driven by reliable operating cash flow, a strong liquidity and balance sheet position, and a diversified mix of low-cost and flexible funding, underpinning a sector-leading dividend policy.
Following the significant investments of the last few years Extreme weather March 2018 in ERFs, we are now poised to reap the benefits as the next In March 2018, a period of abnormally cold weather and four plants come on stream.
We have also ensured we are snowfall provided significant operational challenges, especially well prepared both operationally and in terms of cost in the South West of England, where the MetOffice issued its effectiveness for PR19.
In recycling, we are optimistic that first ever red warning relating to snowfall in England.
The cold positive changes will be announced in the Governments weather and rapid thaw ledto an increase in burst pipes, Resources & Waste Strategy to be published later in 2018. resulting insupply interruptions in some areas of Devon and Cornwall.
Contingency plans were utilised to ensure supplies We collaborate closely with our customers and have of rawwater were maintained to water treatment works enhanced the way we engage with our workforce.
We andleaks resulting in interruptions to supply were fixed believe our strong organisational culture will give us a asquickly as possible.
competitive advantage, deliver a high level of service to South West Water acted swiftly to ensure bottled water ourcustomers and ultimately lead to outstanding business supplies were provided to customers without potable water, performance.
Looking ahead, we have many successes mobilising South West Water staff both field and office based, upon which we can build as we apply our vision of Bringing partners and contractors as well as others such as Viridor resources to life.
I am confident the Board, working HGVdrivers.
together with the Pennon Executive and our people, will Following the resumption of supplies, South West Water also continue to ensure we are not just a successful company, provided collection points to ensure that the plasticbottles but a responsible and trusted one too.
provided to customers could be returned for recycling.
Sir John Parker Chairman 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
