PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 05 STRATEGY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance The Companys net asset value NAV total return for the year ended 31 March 2018 was 5.6%.
This was a disappointing result in a difficult year in which the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys benchmark, posted a return of just 1.2%.
The discount of the share price to the underlying net asset value narrowed marginally during the year, from 9.7% to 9.5%, and the share price total return at 4.9% was consequently slightly better than that on a NAV basis.
This was the second year in succession that the Company has underperformed its benchmark and that has impacted longer term performance.
The five year total return on net assets, which last year was well ahead of the benchmark, is now 37.3%, a fraction behind the benchmark return of 37.6%.
I am pleased to say that the ten year return at 136.1% is still well ahead of the benchmark return of 90.6%.
The years return shortfall relative to the FTSE All-Share Index derived mainly from not holding mining stocks, a setback in tobacco stocks and issues affecting certain individual holdings, particularly Provident Financial and Capita.
Your portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, provides further detail on the performance of the portfolio during the year and sets out his strategy and outlook for the coming year in his report on pages 7 to 9.
Notwithstanding the short term results, your Board continues to support Marks long term conviction approach, which has historically stood the Company in good stead.
His approach means the portfolio is not closely aligned to the benchmark and can result in somewhat uncorrelated outcomes from time to time.
Discount The Board monitors the price at which the Companys shares trade relative to their underlying net asset value.
During the period under review the Companys shares have continued to trade at a discount level that is wider than its historical range and the Board has consulted extensively with the Manager and the Companys corporate broker about it.
Our view is that the discount is principally a product of the Companys relative performance against the wider market and performance will drive demand for the shares and narrow the discount in due course.
Nevertheless, we continue to monitor its level closely and are prepared to take action if we believe it to be in the shareholders long term interests.
We are therefore again seeking shareholder authority to buy back and issue shares, which could potentially assist market liquidity and discount volatility.
Dividend For the year ended 31 March 2018, three interim dividends of 3.15p each were paid to shareholders in September and December 2017, and March 2018.
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 4.45p per share for the year, to be paid on 29 June 2018 to shareholders on the register on 8 June 2018.
This gives a total dividend excluding specials for the year of 13.90p per share, representing an increase of 4.1% on the previous year and, notwithstanding the disappointing NAV annual performance, extends again the Companys record of year-on-year ordinary dividend increases since 1999.
Continuing the policy of recent years to pass on to shareholders special dividends received, the Board has also declared a special dividend of 0.80p per share, also to be paid on 29 June 2018 to shareholders on the register on8 June 2018.
This reflects the level of special dividends received, which was a little more than last year.
However, special dividends are, by their nature, non-recurring so continuation of the flow seen in recent years should not be relied upon.
The Board The Board has a formal succession plan in place and regularly reviews its composition to ensure its balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence continues to be appropriate and conducive to the effective direction of the Company.
Vivian Bazalgette, who has served as a member of the Board since May 2007 will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM and will retire from the Board at its conclusion.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the Board for his invaluable contributions to the Board during his tenure.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 06 STRATEGY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Following a search assisted by the Miles Partnership, an independent consultancy, the Board announced on 11 December 2017 the appointment of Mike Balfour as a Director, with effect from 2 January 2018.
Mr Balfour has a wealth of experience as an investment management professional and as a director of investment trusts.
The Board unanimously recommends that shareholders support his election at the forthcoming AGM.
A biographical summary is included on page 17.
Regulatory There has been a considerable amount of regulatory change that has impinged on the Company of late, including the Criminal Finances Act 2017, which introduced a new corporate crime of failure to prevent tax evasion, implementation of the updated Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II, the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation PRIIPs and, since the year end, the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
PRIIPs requires all investment companies to produce a Key Information Document.
Ours is published on the Companys section of the Managers website at www.
In relation to GDPR, all personal information held on shareholders is used solely for business purposes, such as distribution of the annual and half year reports, payment of dividends and to generate statistical reports for the Board and the Manager.
Details of people who have requested to be included on mailing lists for receipt of the annual and half year reports are not used for other purposes, such as marketing.
Annual General Meeting AGM Information on all resolutions to be put to shareholder vote at the AGM can be found in the Directors Report on pages 29 and 30.
Most of these are the same as last year, but shareholders attention is drawn to resolution 7, to approve the Directors remuneration policy.
This was last approved by shareholders in 2015 and is included in the meeting business this year because it must be put to shareholders at least every three years.
The policy has not changed since it was last put to shareholders.
The Directors have carefully considered all the resolutions proposed in the Notice of the AGM as set out on pages 59 to 62 and, in their opinion, consider them all to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Following a favourable response from attendees last year, the Companys AGM this year will again be held at Invescos West End office, 1st Floor, 43-45 Portman Square, London W1H 6LY, at 11.00am on 17 July 2018.
The Directors and the portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, will be available at the meeting to answer shareholders questions.
