2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DELIVERING ON OUR LONG TERM STRATEGY I was appointed Chairman on 1 June 2018.
Persimmon is a great company with an The Groups long term excellent track record of growth.
And as one of the largest housebuilders in the UK, strategy prioritises the creation Persimmon places great importance on thecontribution the Company makes to and preservation of superior thecommunities it serves.
The Company continues to deliver strong commercial shareholder value through the performance and we appreciate that success remains dependent on delivery economic cycle by building forall our stakeholders notably our customers, our people, our suppliers and good quality homes for our Government.
We are stepping up our efforts to continue to improve customer customers: providing rewarding satisfaction levels with a number of new initiatives being introduced which we careers for our employees and believe will bring significant improvements giving continuity of business for our customers.
Alongside that we are changing our pay and incentives to include tooursuppliers.
greater emphasis on both quality and customer care with plans that are more Roger Devlin rigorous than we have had in the past.
Chairman We remain focused on making a good contribution to increasing the industrys output of new homes across the UK so thatmore people gain access to good value, well-designed homes in line with Government policy and targets.
We will continue to invest in our own manufacturing capabilities timber frame construction, brick and tile works to ensure we are able to support our development programmes over future years.
Results Persimmon delivered a very strong performance in 2018, with revenues increasing by 4% to 3,737.6m 2017: 3,597.8m and profit before taxincreasing by 13% to 1,090.8m 2017: 966.1m.
The Group delivered 16,449 new homes to customers across the UK 2017: 16,043, an increase of 406new homes compared with last year.
The Groups average selling price of 215,563 was 1% higher 2017: 213,321.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 The Groups long term strategy prioritises The Group has continued to reinvest for OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS the creation and preservation of superior the future acquiring 17,092 plots of new shareholder value through the economic land across 84 high quality locations Homes sold 3% cycle by building good quality homes for through the year, with our strategic land our customers: providing rewarding careers holdings contributing 3,772 plots.
In the for our employees and giving continuity of second half of 2018 we acquired 6,020 16,449 business to our suppliers.
We are focused plots of new land across 39 locations.
2017: 16,043 on delivering high quality growth to meet The Groups net land spend of 605.1m for market demand across the UK, investing the year includes 279.3m in the second Average selling price 1% inland and infrastructure to support half which included 145.8m of existing furtherincreases in new home construction land creditor payments.
The Groups land which local communities need.
To support creditor commitments at 31 December 215,563 this growth we opened our seventh new 2018 were 548.0m, 19.3m lower than 2017: 213,321 operating business in four years on the prior year.
2 January 2019, the new team being based Return on average capital employed Forward sales 1% near Doncaster in Yorkshire, which takes was 52.8% for 2018, slightly ahead of the total number of Group housebuilding the previous year 2017: 51.5%.
Since the launch of the 2.02bn Groups new strategy in 2012 Persimmon Long term strategy and 2018: 2.03bn has made a significant contribution to Capital Return Plan increasing housing supply across the UK The Groups strategy is focused Owned land bank plots 2% byinvesting 3.81bn in land, opening 1,370 onmitigating the risks to sustainable new sales outlets, and delivering 97,175 shareholder value creation inherent new homes to the market by increasing in the UK housing market by maintaining 75,793 annual production by over 75%.
capital discipline and delivering strong 2017: 77,067 free cash generation through the housing Persimmon has been successful in cycle.
Minimising financial risk while growingeach of its regional housebuilding Trainees and apprentices 7% retaining flexibility to support an businesses towards optimal scale appropriate level of reinvestment in the andthrough achieving the associated business are key features of our strategy.
c. 630 operational efficiencies the Group delivered Our disciplined approach to land ahousing operating margin of 30.5% 2017: c. 590 replacement aims to support each in2018 which was 260 basis points of our 31 housebuilding businesses higherthan the prior year 2017: 27.9%.
Construction and supply toreach optimal scale by bringing land Operating profit of 1,082.7m was chain jobs 2% into production as promptly as possible.
Our investment in infrastructure and new We opened c. 180 new sales outlets home construction allows us to offer an Over 50,000 in2018 providing support to the Groups attractive range and choice of homes to lower level of land cost recoveries from 2017: over 49,000 ourcustomers to meet their housing needs.
thenew home sales legally completed fromthese sites.
Our strategy recognises the potential for the Group to generate surplus Profit before tax increased by 13% to capital through strong operational 1,090.8m 2017: 966.1m and basic delivery.
The Board therefore made earnings per share of 283.3 pence were a long term commitment in early 2012 11% higher than last years 255.0 pence.
to deliver 1.9bn 6.20 per share In line with our strategic priorities ofsurplus capital to shareholders over whichseek to maximise cash efficiency ten years to 2021 the Capital Return and capital discipline through the cycle, Plan, which was similar to the market theGroups liquidity remains strong.
capitalisation of the Group at the time.
The Group held 1,048.1m of cash at theend of the year 2017: 1,302.7m.
1 2 month rolling average and stated before goodwill impairment.
Estimated using an economic toolkit.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued The value of any surplus capital to be The introduction of our new FibreNest Employees returned to shareholders is continually broadband service demonstrates the We recognise the importance of having a assessed after due consideration of the Groups desire to serve its customers better diverse and engaged workforce.
To enrich and appropriate balance between the current by ensuring they are connected to the strengthen this engagement, during 2018 we financial position of the Group and its internet continuously from moving in day.
put in place procedures for a new Employee reinvestment needs, the Groups land bank, We are pleased that it is rated highly by Engagement Panel to increase dialogue and the housing market cycle and land market our customers.
provide valuable input and feedback to the conditions, and wider-ranging risks and Board from a diverse group of employees As a responsible, sustainable business we external factors.
The Board has set out from across the business.
The Panel will place great importance on our relationships itsrisk and viability assessment processes consider a wide spectrum of matters relating with the communities in which we operate.
on pages 44 to 50. to the business and provide feedback on The Groups approach to master-planning its theirdiscussions.
We have also introduced Following Persimmons strong developments is based on working with local aGender Diversity Panel of some of our performanceover recent years the Group communities to create neighbourhoods that mostsenior female employees.
This Panel isin an excellent financial position holding enhance and support diverse sustainable hasset an initial goal of actively promoting the total liquid cash resources of 1,048.1m, living.
The design of our developments and benefits of working within the housebuilding together with a high quality land bank our Group core house types are centred industry across the local communities we ineach of its regional businesses.
onmeeting the housing needs of the serve through direct engagement with local Having been appointed Group Chief localcommunities we serve.
In response schools and colleges during 2019.
Executive today, Dave Jenkinson tocustomer feedback we concentrate andtheBoard will continue to assess ondelivering traditional homes, creating In addition, from January 2019, following theavailability of surplus capital whilst environments where local people wish proactive engagement with the Living recognising the heightened risks tolive.
Investing in improvements to local Wage Foundation, we adopted the Living regardingthe future performance of the infrastructure, and improving local amenities Wage Foundations payment criteria for UK economy resulting from the UKs exit and public open space, allows us to support ouremployees.
Whilst the vast majority from the EU.
The Board remains confident communities on a sustainable basis.
ofour employees were already paid above in Persimmons financial strength and the LivingWage we are pleased that, During 2018 we contributed 474m to ability to meet its schedule of committed having taken this action, we are able localcommunities in affordable housing capital return payments.
todemonstrate our commitment to being andplanning contributions, which helped aresponsible employer and support our Board Changes tocreate over 2,400 new school places.
We also supported over 50,000 The Board announced the departure of construction and supply chain jobs.
Of the Jeff Fairburn, former CEO, on 7 November Customers and Community years 16,449 new home legal completions, 2018, effective from 31 December 2018.
We must place our customers at the heart 3,108 new homes were delivered to our Dave Jenkinson, Group Managing Director, ofour business and improving customer housing association partners and 225 were was appointed Interim Group Chief satisfaction levels is a key priority.
We listen sold as Discounted Open Market Value sales.
The Board toour customers feedback and aim to act would like to thank Jeff for his long service promptly to address any concerns.
We are During 2018 the Persimmon Charitable to the Company and acknowledge his continuing to invest in both the systems and Foundation donated 1.3m to c. 900 local contribution to the growth and financial the processes that will enable us to improve charities, sporting and community groups success Persimmon achieved under our levels of service to customers, whilst also through our Community Champions and his leadership.
investing in our site management personnel Healthy Community Campaigns, helping and customer care teams so we can better tosupport community life.
We recently The search for a new Chief Executive has meet our customers needs.
Our Home launched a new campaign, Building now concluded, with the appointment of Builders Federation star rating score was Futures, which willdonate over 1m to Dave Jenkinson as Group Chief Executive 79% for 2018, which is in line with the support children inhealth, sport, education on 25 February 2019. prioryears three star rating, and just below and the arts.
We are delighted to be joining afourstar rating which is achieved at an forces with Team GB the British Olympic 80%score.
We recognise the Group has Association to help children throughout theopportunity to achieve an improved the UK.
As an Official Partner of Team GB performance and we are confident that the we are proud to be supporting them in the action we are taking will sustain further run up to, and beyond, the next Olympic improvements as these measures are rolled Games in Tokyo.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 5 Given the Groups robust opening forward The Group will continue to invest in Outlook order position and healthy outlet network thetraining and development of its Recognising the current robust level of Persimmon remains in a strong position employees with over 630 colleagues demand for our new homes, as part of our inits markets with attractively priced new currently engaged in structured training drive to improve our service to customers homes in desirable locations.
We currently programmes, including 381 traditional we have taken action in the new year anticipate delivering a similar level of apprentices learning the trade skills todeliver greater accuracy of anticipated legal completions during 2019 as in the required to support future housing delivery.
We have adopted a prior year.
We aim to deliver improvements in moretargeted approach to the phasing customer care and levels of service through ofsales releases in five of our 31 In line with our stated strategy of managing further investment in our teams, processes businesses, where demand on certain sites the business to mitigate market cycle risks, and systems.
In addition, as indicated in our over the last two years we have adopted January trading update, we still have a avery selective approach to land Persimmons continued investment in our dozen new sales outlets where we are replacement.
We have concentrated teams skills and capabilities, both in our progressing build to a more advanced onacquiring new land where anticipated regional offices and across our national stage before releasing to the market over development returns and timeframes sitenetwork, coupled with our off-site the next few weeks which will provide provide strong nearer term cash returns, manufacturing initiatives, are investments further sales opportunities.
Whilst we do together with higher levels of protection to inthe future strength of the business.
not expect thiswill impact on the Groups asset values.
This, in part, has been a key Whilst the benefits from these investments completions for the year overall, these driver of the Groups superior margins over will take time to be realised we believe they measures have contributed to a slower the period.
We continue to identify good will continue to position Persimmon at the pace of sales reservations in the early quality land opportunities in the open forefront of the industry.
weeks of the current spring trading period.
market and we will continue to reinvest The UK economy displayed resilience Overall sales remain in line with our inthe business for the future where the through 2018 delivering increased levels expectations and weare confident that anticipated returns meet our expectations, ofemployment, some real wage growth, these sites will make a good contribution to which will include our assessment of the and continued support from a disciplined sales once build has progressed.
current increased market risk profile.
mortgage lending market, which supported Whilst sales expectations remain subject Growth in housing output from the industry consumer confidence.
Looking to the to a degree of uncertainty at the start of continues to be constrained by the tight future, the Group is in a strong financial any financial year, the lack of clarity with availability of skilled trade resources position and is well positioned in its respect to the UKs exit from the EU is andsome key materials.
Persimmon will markets with a high quality land bank and currently creating additional unpredictability.
continue to invest to help address these avery experienced management team.
In this context and against record sales in challenges.
The Groups investment The Board remains confident in the Groups the same weeks last year, which reflected initsown brick manufacturing plant at future progress.
the stimulus effect of the Governments cut ourHarworth manufacturing hub, near On behalf of the Board I would like to thank in stamp duty for first time buyers announced Doncaster, provided increasing support management, all our staff, our contractors on 22 November 2017, and after recognising toour build programmes through 2018. and suppliers for all their dedication the above actions to improve customer We anticipate Brickworks will deliver andhard work in delivering the Groups service, the Groups average private sales c. 65m bricks to Group companies through excellent performance in 2018. rate per site in the first eight weeks of the 2019.
Additionally, the construction of our year was 4% lower than the previous year.
own roof tile manufacturing plant on the We expect sales reservation volumes will same site is progressing to plan and we Roger Devlin pick up on release of the plots and sites Group Chairman expect first deliveries from Tileworks to 25 February 2019 currently under construction, delivering a commence in the second half of this year.
different shape of sales for the current year Our Space4 manufacturing facility, based but with no impact on our overall completion near Birmingham, continues to make an expectations.
Cancellation rates remain important contribution to our expanding athistorically low levels.
The Groups in-house manufacturing capability.
current total forward sales, including legal completions taken so far in 2019, remain strong at 2.02bn 2018: 2.03bn.
The average selling price of private sales within our total sales is 238,800, c. 2% higher than at the same point last year, andpricing conditions remain firm.
E stimated using data published by the National Audit Office.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
