Chairmans statement The Group has made I am pleased to report a year of good We have also seen good performance progress for the Group.
This has been from our four Specialist Referral Centres, excellent headway achieved against a retail environment where we are gradually adding capacity that remains competitive, with cost and introducing new treatment in repositioning pressures from the introduction of specialisms to accelerate growth.
the National Living Wage and less our retail business Overall we generated revenue growth favourable foreign exchange rates.
of 7.8%, to 898.9m, within which like-forin a challenging 1 The UK pet market has a track record like sales grew 5.5%.
Underlying profit 1 of resilience in more difficult economic before tax declined to 84.5m in the environment and in times and, uniquely, Pets at Home is year, primarily due to the repositioning growing our successful able to provide everything a pet owner of our retail business.
The Board needs for their pet to live a happy, proposes an ordinary dividend of 7.5p vet business.
I am healthy and safe life.
Our Group strategy per share.
is centred around providing pets and confident that under Management their owners with the very best advice, I am delighted to welcome Peter care and products.
the leadership of Pritchard as Group Chief Executive In the second half of the previous Officer.
Peter joined Pets at Home Peter Pritchard, we will financial year, we noted a change in 2011 as Commercial Director and in customer behaviour in our retail moved to the role of CEO of Retail in make further progress business, in response to which we 2015.
In that time he has overseen the in the years ahead.
recognised the need to deliver better establishment of our sourcing office pricing.
This involved a move away in China, the launch of the VIP club, Tony DeNunzio from promotional offers and vouchers, the development of our digital strategy, Non-Executive Chairman and towards a simpler, more competitive and more recently, the repositioning approach.
We are pleased with the of our Merchandise business.
results we have seen from these Peters appointment follows Ian Kelletts initiatives and our plan remains to decision to resign after 12 years target price investment into those with Pets at Home.
During that time, product areas that we believe drive Ian made a significant contribution, shopper frequency and loyalty.
first as Chief Financial Officer, and We have also invested in our digital most recently as Group Chief Executive capability, with successful initiatives like Officer.
He played a leading role in the Order-In-Store and subscription services.
transformation of Pets at Home from its retail roots into the much wider In the veterinary market, our First services and omnichannel business Opinion practices, Vets4Pets, already it is today.
I would like to thank Ian for represent a strong and fast growing the contribution he has made over his proportion of Group revenues.
long tenure with the business.
1 A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined and reconciled to IFRS information, where possible, on page 169.
Pets at Home Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Overview Governance report Page 48 I am also pleased to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Introducing new members Sharon Flood joined the Board in July of our Board and Executive team 2017 and is Chair of our Audit and Risk Committee.
Stanislas Stan Laurent also joined the Board in July 2017.
Sharon and Stan replaced Amy Stirling and Paul Coby, both of whom stood down from the Board in order to fulfil commitments in their full time roles.
Nicolas Gheysens stood down from the Board in November Peter Pritchard Sharon Flood 2017.
I would like to thank Amy, Paul and Group Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Nicolas for their contribution to the Board.
Peter joined Pets at Home in 2011 as Sharon brings impeccable retail and Commercial Director and in 2016 was financial credentials to the Board, At the end of the financial year Sally appointed CEO of Retail.
He has worked having worked with Kingfisher, John Hopson resigned as CEO of our Vet in retail for 30 years in various senior Lewis and more recently as Chair Group.
She is succeeded by Andrei management and commercial roles of French luxury goods company Balta, formerly Chief Operating Officer at Asda, Sainsburys, Iceland, Marks ST Du Pont.
Her plc experience and of the Vet Group.
Andrei has great and Spencer and Wilkinson Hardware understanding of the retail market will strategic and operational skills and Stores.
Peter has been responsible for contribute greatly to the growth of worked with Sally to deliver many of the launch of a number of successful the business.
She chairs the Audit the most significant developments in retail initiatives and will provide and Risk Committee.
strong leadership to the Group.
our Vet Group in recent years, including our move into the market for Specialist Referrals.
Id like to thank Sally for the contribution she has made to both our retail and vet businesses.
Colleagues As a specialist retailer it is the knowledge and commitment of our colleagues, at Stanislas Laurent Andrei Balta all levels and across all disciplines, that Independent Non-Executive Director CEO, Vet Group creates the special bond we share with Stanislas was formerly President Andrei joined Pets at Home in 2011 our customers a love of pets.
Again and CEO of Photobox and COO as Director of Group Strategy and this year, I want to thank colleagues for of AOL Europe.
He is currently a moved to the veterinary business in their hard work and commitment.
His 2013, firstly as Commercial Director entrepreneurial background and and subsequently as Chief Operating Outlook understanding of the digital online Officer.
Prior to Pets at Home, Andrei While the year ahead will undoubtedly space in consumer facing businesses was a management consultant at pose new challenges, the Board is adds significant value as we expand Bain & Company for seven years.
confident we have the right strategy, our omnichannel capabilities.
with an experienced leadership team that is committed to delivering further Membership of the Board Gender breakdown success in the year ahead.
We look Board of Directors forward to the future with confidence.
Non-Executive Chairman 1 Male 75% Tony DeNunzio Executive Directors 2 Female 25% Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 22 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15
