CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, I joined Phoenix as Chairman at a pivotal moment in the Groups history.
2018 was a defining year for the Group marked by outstanding strategic delivery and strong financial performance.
On 31 August, Phoenix completed the2.9 billion acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses and entered into a Strategic Partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen.
This transaction established the Groupas the largest life and pensions consolidator in Europe with226 billion of assets under administration and 10 million policies as at 31 December 2018.
Not only did the acquisition bring additional scale to theGroups Heritage business, but Phoenix also acquired a significant Openbusiness in the form ofStandard Life branded insurance products which the Group is committedto growing.
Our Strategic Partnership is underpinned by a 19.98% equity staketaken by Standard Life Aberdeen in Phoenix and our Boardhas been strengthened by the appointment of two Standard Life Aberdeen nominated Non-Executive Directors.
We have a close and positive working relationship with Standard Life Aberdeen which extends through its management ofc.
60% of our assets under administration and the distribution agreement generating new business.
Our objectives are aligned as we seek to leverage our respective skill sets togrow our businesses.
THE ACQUISITION OF THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES IN 2018WAS TRANSFORMATIONAL FOR PHOENIX.
WE ARE NOW EUROPES LARGEST LIFE AND PENSIONS CONSOLIDATOR.
NICHOLAS LYONS CHAIRMAN PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 2 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Phoenix marked a number of DIVIDEND POLICY LOOKING AHEAD  achievements The additional cash flows acquired as Despite our expectation that market thisyear including the completion of part of the acquisition of the Standard conditions will remain turbulent leading theintegration of the AXA Wealth and Life Assurance businesses enhance up to and beyond Brexit, we look ahead Abbey Life businesses ahead of plan thesustainability of our dividend.
withoptimism as Phoenixs hedging and targets and successfully entering Therefore, in line with previously stated programme brings resilience to the into the Bulk Purchase Annuity market.
expectations the Board recommends Group solvency position and cash raising the dividend to an annualised generation.
Additionally, the Groups Finally, the Group extended its track amount of 338 million from the time of capital-light new business capability record of meeting and exceeding all the 2018 final dividend.
This corresponds brings added sustainability to ofits publicly stated financial targets to a final 2018 dividend per share of Phoenixscash generation.
bysurpassing the upperend of its 23.4p and constitutes a c. 3.5% uplift in two-year cash generation target dividend per share rebased to take into Simultaneously, the drivers for rangeof 1.0 1.2 billion, delivering account the bonus element of the rights consolidation in the life insurance sector 1.3 billion of cash generation over issue completed in July 2018, resulting are increasing and we believe institutions 2017and 2018. in a newannualised dividend per share will look to divest their capital intensive levelof 46.8p going forward.
closed business to consolidators such CAPITAL MARKETS DAY asPhoenix.
Phoenix has a proven track In November Phoenix held a very Given the long-term run-off nature record of delivering value accretive well-attended Capital Markets Day to ofthe Groups Heritage business, the acquisitions and I am confident that the provide an update on the Standard Life Board continues to consider it prudent Group is well placed to take advantage Assurance acquisition.
The presentation to maintain a stable and sustainable ofthese growth opportunities as and illustrated how Phoenix has evolved dividend policy.
from being a closed business to a consolidator of both Open and RECENT BOARD CHANGES Phoenix will enter the FTSE100 Index Heritagelife businesses.
Entry into this index Against a backdrop of macroeconomic is recognition of the progress Phoenix uncertainty in light of Brexit, the Board Organic growth through the capital-light has made as an organisation.
aims to maintain the breadth and depth new business written aspart of the of experience required to continue Strategic Partnership with Standard Life I would like to take this opportunity delivering shareholder value and Aberdeen represents a fundamental tothank all my colleagues for their improving customer outcomes.
strengthening of the Groups business hardwork and commitment in what Therefore, we were delighted to model, stemming the natural run-off hasbeenanother hugely successful welcome Campbell Fleming and Barry ofour Heritage business and bringing year forPhoenix and our investors for ODwyer from Standard Life Aberdeen sustainability to the Groups cash their continuing support.
I look forward to the Board.
Both bring with them generation profile.
toworking with you all in 2019. substantial experience and executive skills complementary to those of our existing Directors and very related toourevolving strategy.
NICHOLAS LYONS CHAIRMAN 4 March 2019 226bn 10.0m ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION POLICIES PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 3
