04 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Overview Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AN IMPROVED FINANCIAL PROFILE Alan Jackson Non-Executive Chairman FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS his has been an extremely important year As part of this ongoing progress it was announced An important part of the Groups improved profile in the growth and development of Playtech.
in 2018 has been our progress in delivering a more in July 2018 that Susan Ball would join the Board TThe year has produced many challenges for and Chair the Audit Committee.
Susan brings efficient balance sheet.
Following the realisation 54% 7% Playtech and the industries we operate in, making of value from the sales of the GVC and Plus500 experience of the European online gambling space, For more our achievements this year all the more critical to having previously been on the board of Kambi stakes, in October the Company completed the information our longer-term success.
Playtech has continued issuance of its first public-rated corporate bond, Group plc and before that having served as CFO Chief to improve its quality of earnings, has delivered of Unibet Group plc.
Further to the appointment of raising 530 million to refinance the Snaitech Executive strategic progress in fast-growing markets, has acquisition, achieving interest cost savings and Susan, in August 2018 former Sportech plc CEO Officer's an improved financial profile and continued to Ian Penrose joined the Board and has taken over greater flexibility and efficiency for the Groups review develop its corporate governance through the balance sheet.
as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, a role in page 16 evolution of the Board.
This progress lays the which he has conducted high levels of shareholder Financial The progress on balance sheet efficiency and foundations for long-term, sustainable growth engagement.
Ian brings deep sector experience, review sustained fiscal control, coupled with the Groups and shareholder value in 2019 and beyond.
having led a strategic repositioning and business page 62 continued high levels of cash generation, has turnaround at Sportech plc.
Risks & Notwithstanding challenges to the market in allowed the Board to introduce greater balance uncertainties Asia and regulatory headwinds in the UK and and flexibility into its shareholder return policy by Susans and Ians appointments represent two page 68 Italy, Playtech reported a 54% increase in Group transitioning to a balance of dividends and share important steps forward for the Board in 2018, revenue and a 7% increase in Group Adjusted buybacks.
Following shareholder engagement, and the Board is continuing to look to add 1,240m 343.0m EBITDA.
The landmark acquisition of Snaitech, the Board believes it is in the interest of all high-quality non-executives in 2019 to match 1 Revenue Adjusted EBITDA completed in June 2018, delivered the Boards shareholders to reallocate part of our capital the Companys needs, with the support of a 2017: 807.1m 2017: 322.1m strategic objective to improve the quality and returns into share buybacks.
Following the professional search firm.
diversification of Group revenue, while delivering adoption of the policy, the Board has approved Looking ahead into 2019, Playtech is able exposure to high-growth end markets and was a an initial share buyback programme of up to 40 11% 9% to present ever greater opportunities to all key part of achieving this growth.
The sustained million and a final dividend of 12.0 cents per share.
stakeholders, providing a platform for further move from unregulated to regulated revenue has progress in 2019 and beyond.
delivered an improved investment profile for the Group, with more than 80% of Group revenue now derived from regulated activity.
The global gambling Revenue in regulated B2B markets grew by industry continues to Alan Jackson 12% at constant currency in 2018.
Operational Non-Executive Chairman progress in new and existing regulated markets develop and evolve is a testament to Playtechs strength in regulation 20 February 2019 and compliance in the gambling industry, as at pace, presenting well as its commercial capabilities.
During 2018, Playtech further strengthened its position in the opportunities and UK, launching a new omni-channel brand to the market and launched in the European growth 256.2m 72.9 cents challenges for Playtech 2 markets of Poland and Switzerland.
Playtech also Adjusted net profit Adjusted diluted EPS partnered with leading retail brands to deliver their 2017: 231.4m and its partners.
2017: 66.8 cents first online casino offerings as well as working with existing licensees in Sweden following new 1 Adjusted numbers relate to certain 24% Central to Playtechs progress and growth has non-cash and one-off items including regulation.
In Latin America, Playtech continued amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions, to execute its strategic advantage in the region by been a track record of open and constructive professional costs on acquisitions, finance dialogue with its shareholders, and 2018 has seen signing a new agreement with Sportium Colombia costs on acquisitions, deferred tax on acquisitions, unrealised changes in fair to provide its sportsbook technology across the the Board continue high levels of engagement value of equity investments recognised to continue important progress on Corporate retail and online environments.
This progress lays in the period income statement, non-cash the foundations for future growth in the core B2B Governance.
To meet the changing demands accrued bond interest and additional various non-cash charges.
The Directors of the Company, the Board has also evolved Playtech business.
believe that the adjusted profit, which significantly in that time and has played an includes realised fair value changes important role in shepherding the Company recognised in the income statement in the period on equity investments disposed through its rapid change.
of in the period, represents more closely the consistent trading performance of the business.
A full reconciliation between the actual and adjusted results is provided in Note 6.
