CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION With a clear strategy, a continued focus on continuing to grow the M&A agenda as well as continuing to invest in and develop the Groups current solutions, alongside its experienced and dedicated senior management team and workforce, I am confident that the Group will continue to thrive during 2019.
Ron Marsh Chairman OVERVIEW RESULTS REVIEW OF STRATEGY I am pleased to present the Polypipe 2018 Performance throughout 2018 has been During 2018, the key objectives of the Board Annual Report and Accounts following strong, with a 5.2% increase in revenue to included: another excellent year for the Group.
433.2m and a 1.9% increase in underlying } Continued investigation and delivery on Despite the continued economic and political operating profit at 74.0m.
UK revenue selected development and acquisition uncertainty that has prevailed during the growth was up 5.9%, which is materially opportunities.
year and the mixed conditions in the UK ahead of the overall UK construction market. }
Targeting investment to support the construction market performance, our end Underlying operating margin was robust continued growth of our key businesses.
markets continue to perform well, with the at 17.1%, despite continued input cost Group growing UK revenue significantly inflation, and underlying diluted earnings } Continuing to develop our core ahead of the UK construction market.
As per share increased by 4.5% to 28.1 pence manufacturing capabilities by investing well as managing this growth, the Group per share.
Our strong cash generation in further new capacity and automation has also seen a number of changes during enabled the Group to fund acquisitions net to help grow both revenues and profit the year, including the sale of the French of disposals of 42.5m during the course organically.
business in March, the acquisition of of the year whilst net debt only increased Good progress was made against these Permavoid in August and the acquisition by 15.8m to 164.2m 2017: 148.4m, objectives during 2018. of Manthorpe in October.
There were also resulting in net debt of 1.7 times pro forma some key leadership changes during the year, EBITDA compared with 1.6 times for the In addition to our ongoing initiatives, in including the appointment of Paul James as prior year.
2019 our attention will be focused upon: CFO following Martin Paynes promotion to DIVIDEND } Continued progression of the Groups CEO, and the appointment of Louise Hardy We have again maintained our dividend M&A agenda.
as a Non-Executive Director in June.
The policy and I am pleased to report that the Group also carried out a refinancing of its } Ensuring that the organisational Board recommends a final dividend of 7.9 revolving credit facility in November 2018, structure of the Group continues to pence per share, giving a full year dividend well in advance of the 2020 expiry date.
be appropriate in light of the recent of 11.6 pence per share for the year ended acquisition activity and the longer-term 31 December 2018, a 4.5% increase on the M&A agenda.
Read more about our Strategy Read more about Supporting our on pages 18 to 21 Sustainable journey on pages 50 to 53 08 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE in November, and the Board concluded SUMMARY that it continued to function strongly The exceptional effort and ongoing The Group has made significant progress and collaboratively.
Suggestions for commitment of our employees continues during 2018 and the strong performance minor improvements were made and to be a key driver of the Groups strong in the year is testament to the strength of the outcome of the evaluation process is performance.
In 2018, the Board and the growth drivers on which the Groups discussed in more detail on page 65.
It is I spent time visiting some of our sites in strategy is based.
With a clear strategy, a the Boards intention, in compliance with the UK, and continue to be impressed continued focus on continuing to grow the requirements of the UK Corporate by the knowledge, enthusiasm and the M&A agenda as well as continuing to Governance Code, to carry out an externally commitment of our employees across invest in and develop the Groups current facilitated evaluation in 2019. the Group.
Strong leadership in each solutions, alongside its experienced and business unit by experienced and dedicated dedicated senior management team and CULTURE management teams is a key differentiator, workforce, I am confident that the Group The Board is conscious of the increasing and the integration of employees within will continue to thrive during 2019. importance which corporate culture plays the businesses acquired during the year has in delivering long-term business and Ron Marsh been well executed and further strengthens economic success and its role in shaping, Chairman the pool of talent across the Group.
The Board BOARD EVALUATION encourages an open and transparent culture and encourages the senior management Following the externally facilitated review teams across the Group to foster and of our Boards performance in 2016, maintain an open culture which is responsive an internal review of the Board, its to stakeholder expectations and the external Committees and individual Directors was Read more about our Governance environment.
The Board will continue to carried out in 2018 using an evaluation on pages 59 to 73 work to embed this successfully into its questionnaire.
The results of the evaluation operations in 2019. were discussed by the Board at its meeting ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 09 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
