"Chairmans statement At the heart of our businessisthe aim to modernise and improve theability to provide efficientand effective healthcare in the UK I am delighted to present PHPs Annual Report for 2018, which has been another successful and transformative period in the Companys history. """
Steven Owen Independent Non-executive Chairman 6 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Mallow Primary Healthcare Centre, Ireland.
Following my appointment as Chairman of PHP in April, I am Results highlights delighted to present my first Annual Report for 2018, which The property acquisitions in both 2017 and 2018, together hasbeen another successful and transformative period in the withcontinued and increasing organic rental growth, helped Companys history.
Our strategy of selective and disciplined todeliver another set of strong results in the year with EPRA investment and asset management activity underpinned by a earnings up 18.7% to 36.8m 2017: 31.0m up 15.7% and EPRA strong, well-financed balance sheet has enabled us to deliver earnings per share unchanged at 5.2p 2017: 5.2p reflecting the 22nd successive year of dividend per share growth of 2.9% the dilution from the equity raise in April 2018.
The Groups and a total NAV return of 9.8p, an increase of 9.7%.
portfolio was valued at just over 1.5bn which generated a revaluation surplus, including the profit on sales, of 36.1m In the first half of the year the Group strengthened its balance 2017: 64.5m after allowing for costs associated with sheet with an oversubscribed capital raise, generating 115.0m acquisitions and capital expenditure.
of equity capital 111.2m net of expenses from a combination of both new and existing investors.
We have now deployed The EPRA earnings, revaluation surplus and a gain on the mark theproceeds of this equity raise by selectively acquiring eight to market valuation of our derivative portfolio and convertible properties in the UK and Ireland, including a forward funded bond of 1.4m resulted in an IFRS profit of 74.3m 2017: 91.9m, development, for a total of 106.2m and investing a further a decrease of 19.2% due principally to a lower revaluation surplus 4.4m in 16 asset management projects to create additional in 2018 compared with 2017. value into the portfolio.
The result of this activity is that as at Rent reviews and asset management projects completed in the 31December 2018 the portfolio comprised 313 assets valued year added 1.3m or 1.8% 2017: 0.7m or 1.0% to the contracted atjust over 1.5bn.
rent roll and the continued positive momentum on rent reviews The Group passed another significant milestone following the has seen annualised rental growth improve to 1.4% compared equity raise and entered the FTSE 250 Index on the London to 1.1% and 0.9% achieved in 2017 and 2016 respectively.
Rent reviews and asset management projects accounted for PHP was also announced as the winner of the Highest 10 Year approximately 60% of the revaluation surplus generated in the Risk Adjusted Absolute Return award by MSCI Investment year.
Continued, albeit slowing, yield compression in the sector Property Forum in March 2018. resulted in the portfolios net initial yield contracting by 6bp to4.85% 31 December 2017: 4.91% which accounted for the Proposed merger with MedicX Fund Limited MedicX balance ofthe revaluation surplus.
0n 24 January 2019 the Boards of PHP and MedicX The revaluation surplus and profit on sales in the year of 36.1m jointlyannounced a proposed all-share merger to create 2017: 64.5m is equivalent to 4.7p per share and was the main oneofthe largest healthcare REITs in the UK with a portfolio factor for the increase in the EPRA NAV by 4.4p or 4.4% to ofover 470 assets valued at 2.3bn.
The merger is subject to 105.1p 2017: 100.7p which when added to the dividends paid the approval of both PHP and MedicX shareholders: subject produced a total NAV return for the year of 9.8p 2017: 14.9p.
tothose approvals, we expect the merger to complete in late March.
The full announcement, presentation and webcast The portfolios average lot size continues to grow and is now regarding the proposed merger are available on our website 4.8m 31 December 2017: 4.5m and we continue to maintain andprovide further information.
our very strong metrics, with a long weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT of 13.1 years, high occupancy at 99.8% The merger brings together two highly complementary portfolios and only 1.5% of our rent due to expire in the next three years.
in both the UK and Ireland and the combined business will The WAULT of 13.1 years for 2018 compares very favourably with the represent a stronger platform for further acquisitions and forward WAULT of 13.2 years for 2017 which, given the effluxion of time, funded developments.
Combining the two businesses is expected to would be expected to decrease by one year for each year that create significant value for the shareholders of the enlarged Group passes.
The maintaining of the WAULT is testament to our and we are excited by the opportunities that will be created.
acquisition and asset management capabilities.
The merger represents another significant and important step in our strategy of selectively growing the portfolio, focusing on large hub primary care centres, and it significantly extends the scale of the business and asset value.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 7 Chairmans statement continued Dividends Helen Mahy CBE is Chairman of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited, a FTSE 250 investment company, and is a The Company distributed a total of 5.4p per share in the year Non-Executive Director of SSE plc and Bonheur ASA, a company to 31 December 2018, an increase of 2.9% over the 2017 total listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange.
She was formerly Company of 5.25p per share, and marked the Companys 22nd successive Secretary and General Counsel of National Grid plc until she retired year of dividend growth.
The total cost of dividends distributed in 2013 and is also an Equality and Human Rights Commissioner.
in the year increased by 16.6% to 36.6m 2017: 31.4m which was fully covered by EPRA earnings.
Dividends totalling 1.9m Laure Duhot acts for a number of property firms and investors were satisfied through the issuance of shares via the scrip across Europe, providing strategic advice and transaction dividend scheme.
support, with a focus on alternative real estate assets and is currently a Non-Executive Director of InLand Homes plc, MIC A dividend of 1.4p per share was declared on 3 January 2019, Limited and The Guinness Partnership.
Until the end of 2016 equivalent to 5.6p on an annualised basis, which represents an she was also a Managing Director at Grainger plc, where she increase of 3.7% over the dividend distributed per share in 2018. was responsible for fund management and corporate finance The dividend will be paid to shareholders on 22 February 2019 who for a number of fund vehicles operating in the UK and Germany.
were on the register at the close of business on 11 January 2019.
The dividend will comprise a Property Income Distribution PID I look forward to working with Helen and Laure and I am confident of 0.75p and an ordinary dividend of 0.65p per share.
Further that our Board will have the skill, diversity and culture to drive the dividend payments are planned to be made on a quarterly basis.
I am also very grateful to my colleagues Nick and Geraldine for their commitment and dedication to the The Company intends to maintain its strategy of paying a Company over the past three years, and their contribution to progressive dividend that is covered by underlying earnings and support for the Merger.
The Companys share price started the year at 117.0p per share Market update and outlook and closed on 31 December 2018 at 111.0p, a decrease of 5.1%.
We consider the wider, macro-economic consequence of Brexit Including dividends, those shareholders who held the Companys in the risk management section but whatever the final outcome shares throughout the year achieved a total shareholder return and consequences of Brexit for the UK it is unlikely to have a TSR of -0.5% 2017: 9.6%.
This compares to the total return direct impact on theprimary health centres we invest in, which delivered by the EPRA UK Index of -13.0% and the wider UK perform a vital role in the provision of healthcare across the UK equity sector FTSE All-Share Index: -9.5% in the year.
Demand for our properties is driven by demographics and in particular populations that are growing, ageing and suffering Board changes from more instances of chronic illness.
As previously reported, Alun Jones retired as Chairman at the Despite the continued volatility in the economic and political Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 April 2018 and was replaced environment and the prolonged era of low, albeit increasing, by Steven Owen, previously Senior Independent Director and interest rates, there continues to be an unrelenting search for the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Directors income yield across most sectors.
Primary healthcare, with its Dr Ian Rutter and Mark Creedy also retired at the AGM.
strong fundamental characteristics and government-backed Three new Non-Executive Directors, Ian Krieger, Dr Stephen Kell income, has been a significant beneficiary.
The UK market for OBE, and Peter Cole were appointed during the first half of 2018. primary healthcare property investment continues to be highly competitive with strong yields and prices being paid by Nick Wiles took over from Mark Creedy as Chairman of the investors for assets in the sector and we have continued to Adviser Engagement Committee at the end of January 2018 seeyields compress further during 2018 although at a slower and replaced Steven Owen as the Senior Independent Director rate than that witnessed in 2017. at the AGM.
Ian Krieger was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee, replacing Steven Owen at the AGM.
Primary healthcare performs a critical function, providing a key part of the NHSs Five-Year Forward View FYFV, operating as As separately announced, following completion of the most patients first point of call when unwell.
The primary care mergerwith MedicX, which is subject to shareholder approval, estate has faced underinvestment over the last decade, with Helen Mahy will join the Board as Deputy Chairman and Senior approximately 50% of the 8,000 GP surgeries in England and Independent Director and Laure Duhot will join the Board as a Wales now considered by medical professionals to be unfit for Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Adviser Engagement purpose.
Building on the FYFV, the follow-up Next Steps on the Committee.
In order to maintain an appropriate size and balance Five-Year Forward View, published in March 2017, reiterated between the Company and MedicX directors, post the merger, that shift, setting out targets for growth in the primary care Nick Wiles and Geraldine Kennell will step down from the Board.
workforce, expansion of access to general practice and the need for improved primary care premises.
8 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information In January 2018, the Government published a response to theNaylor review, which acknowledged the importance of land and property to the transformation of the health system and how the NHS will be able to supplement public capital with other sources of finance from the private sector.
The response also confirms that the use of private finance has been particularly effective as a source of investment and innovation in primary and community care in the past and will still be used in the future where it represents good value for money.
Demand for healthcare is driven by demographics and the NHS is supported on a cross-party basis in the UK.
We welcome recent announcements made this year by theGovernment to increase funding for the NHS and how the 20.5bn budget settlement, announced on its 70th anniversary, will be spent over the next five years.
The new NHS Long Term Plan, announced in January 2019, sets out how the NHS plans to improve the quality of patient care and health outcomes.
The plan also includes measures to improve out of hospital care, Newbridge Primary Care Centre, Ireland supporting primary medical and community health services, Acquired in andinvestment in these services will grow faster than the overall September2018.
NHS budget, worth an extra 4.5bn a year in real terms by 2023 24 with the aim of reducing pressure on emergency hospital services.
These additional resources may in time lead to increased activity in the building of new facilities and the modernisation of existing primary care premises and we look forward to helping deliver the modernisation of the estate by actively pursuing attractive investment opportunities of both existing assets anddevelopments.
We believe that our activities benefit not only our shareholders but also our other stakeholders, including our occupiers, patients, the NHS and HSE, suppliers, lenders and the wider communities in both the UK and Ireland.
The Company is in a strong position to continue to deliver longterm value to shareholders and the Board looks forward with confidence to the forthcoming year.
Winchcombe MedicalCentre, Winchcombe 250 sqm extension completed.
Steven Owen Chairman 30 January 2019 The UK market for primary healthcare property investment continues to be highly competitive with strong yields and prices being paid by investors.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 9
