Chairmans statement Paul Manduca Continuing to deliver long-term value to our customers I am pleased to introduce Prudentials 2018 Annual Report.
The Company has performed well amid uncertain macro-economic conditions, continuing to deliver value for our customers, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
We have also made good progress towards our planned demerger of M&GPrudential from Prudential plc.
Our performance depends on the quality Board changes also like to welcome Fields Wicker-Miurin, of our products, which meet essential A well-run company is built through good who joined the Board in 2018, and to thank needs for our customers.
We are strongly decision-making and execution, and robust Anne Richards and Barry Stowe, who both aware of our purpose, which is to help governance is the foundation.
During a stepped down during 2018, for their people fide-risk their lives and deal with time of both external and internal change, valuable contributions to the Board and their biggest financial concerns.
Our the Board must be decisive and exercise its the Group.
products and services are designed and judgement in a timely manner.
Our customers and wider delivered with that purpose clearly in mind.
It has been a privilege to serve on the Board stakeholders The quality of our financial performance of Prudential plc since October 2010, and Regardless of the nature of the external during 2018 is a reflection of our success in to have served as Chairman since July environment and the changes we are providing value to our customers.
The Board is mindful that the making to the Group, we maintain our We have been working hard on the Corporate Governance Code states that strong focus on delivering for our proposed demerger of M&GPrudential a chair should not remain in post beyond customers.
In Asia, we are developing from the Group, which we announced in nine years from the date of first innovative digital solutions: in the US we March 2018.
We remain confident that it appointment to the Board.
However, to are providing new retirement propositions: will result in the creation of two businesses help provide Board stability during the and in the UK we are making our successful with distinct investment prospects, each period covering the demerger of PruFund products increasingly available to offering compelling propositions to M&GPrudential, I have agreed to remain people who are looking for ways to ensure customers and shareholders.
The practical as Chairman until May 2021, subject to their financial security in retirement, steps needed to deliver the demerger are re-election each year.
including through our digital platform.
The Board is We are also taking active steps to ensure We have also looked at our wider Board focused on ensuring a smooth transition that we are prepared for the impact of the composition as we head towards the and that both businesses have the UKs exit from the European Union.
At the demerger of M&GPrudential.
As Chief necessary management and board same time, we are using our customers Executive of M&GPrudential, John Foley expertise to give them the best possible capital to invest in companies and will naturally stand down from the Board start to life after the demerger.
This has infrastructure around the world, driving as part of the transition.
Having taken into included the appointment of Mike Evans economic growth and supporting the account the changed shape of the as Chair of M&GPrudential.
communities in which we operate.
Prudential Group post-demerger and the reduced number of business units, the Performance and dividend The Board is committed to ensuring that Board has decided that the roles of Chief The Group delivered another year of the Group continues to make a positive Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia sustainable operating and financial social and economic impact.
In our and Chairman and Chief Executive of performance during 2018.
In view of this Corporate responsibility review, beginning Jackson Holdings will no longer be performance, the Board has decided to on page 70 of this Annual Report, we executive director roles on the Board, increase the full-year ordinary dividend by provide an overview of our approach as a although they will remain on the Group 5 per cent to 49.35 pence per share.
In line responsible corporate citizen.
John Foley, Nic with this, the Directors have approved can be found in our 2018 Environmental, Nicandrou and Michael Falcon will not seek a second interim ordinary dividend of social and governance report ESG, which re-election and will step down at the 2019 33.68 pence per share.
My thanks go to all three of them for their Our shareholders service on the Board.
The Boards role is to represent the interests of all shareholders.
A regular Lord Turner has also announced that he and frank dialogue with our shareholders will retire from the Board at the 2019 AGM.
ensures we are responsive to our owners I would like to take this opportunity to thank priorities and concerns.
We have an him for his significant contribution to the ongoing programme of shareholder Board over the last three and a half years, engagement, which enables us to make as a Non-executive Director and a member better decisions based on the well of the Risk and Audit Committees.
I would 02 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  informed feedback we receive.
I personally I am also particularly pleased with the efforts find these discussions hugely valuable and so many of our people make in regard to take the ideas and suggestions received community involvement.
We have an active very seriously.
programme of community investment in our businesses around the world, with a total In addition, policy and regulatory change contribution of over 27 million.
Our projects can have a significant effect on both our range from Cha-Ching, the financial operating environment and our customers.
education platform aimed at primary-school We are committed to developing children, which began in Asia and is now constructive and open relationships with present on all four continents on which we all our supervisors, as well as governments operate, to Prudential RideLondon, now in and civil society.
We are grateful for the its seventh year, which has raised more than constructive engagement of our regulators 66 million for charity, plus our many other during the demerger process, and the activities around social inclusion, education Board is committed to continuing to work and life skills and disaster preparedness.
A key part of our community contribution is Our people made by our people volunteering their time Prudential has always been a business built and skills for the benefit of their communities, on our people.
It is the commitment, drive and this makes me particularly proud.
and creativity of our teams in markets I support this activity personally through around the world that has enabled us to the Chairmans Challenge, our flagship Paul Manduca deliver these results while moving towards international volunteering programme, our demerger.
The commitment of our Chairman which brings together people from across the people to our customers is inspiring, and Group to get involved in their communities.
understanding their needs and priorities is In 2018, more than 9,000 of our colleagues a focal point for the Board.
An environment around the world took part in the Chairmans where we continually develop our talent, Challenge, volunteering over 49,000 hours to reward great performance, protect our support 33 different projects.
people and value our differences is key to delivering results such as these.
Looking forward We have delivered solid results while We are also determined to make sure our making good progress towards a significant people represent the diverse communities change that we believe will secure the we serve.
Ensuring that our colleagues long-term future for both Prudential plc and have a wide range of experience and M&GPrudential.
The Board is confident viewpoints is vital to our success, and the that shareholders, customers and all our Board has made diversity and inclusion one stakeholders will benefit from the creation of of our strategic priorities.
There is much to the two focused and innovative companies do in this area, but I am encouraged by the that will result, and that we will continue progress we have made.
delivering value well into the future.
Bringing Money Smarts to kids across the US Since 2017, the Jackson Charitable Foundation Partnering with Junior Achievement USA JA, has been helping American students to form Cha-Ching has been incorporated into JAs better financial habits from the youngest ages.
third grade classroom curriculum which is Cha-Ching Money Smart Kids music videos taught in more than 15,000 classrooms and activities, originally developed by annually by community volunteers, including Prudential Corporation Asia, are now used Jackson associates.
The Foundation has also in elementary schools across the US with teamed up with Discovery Education to make programmes led by classroom teachers and Cha-Ching available at no cost to teachers community volunteers.
and families through streaming services and www.
org Helping children learn money management concepts while engaging them in fun and Between these two efforts, Cha-Ching has memorable activities prepares them for reached more than 2.6 million students since a promising future, said Jackie Prester, 2017 and continues to grow in popularity, Business and Technology Teacher, teaching young people how to Earn, Save, Mansfield Public Schools, Massachusetts.
With Cha-Ching, we are putting students on a path to financial freedom in adulthood, where money smart habits can positively impact their families, communities and lives.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 03
