6 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chairmans statement I am delighted and privileged to have been invited to be Chairman ofProvident Financial plc, and I hope to see as many of you as possible atmy first AGM in May.
I have now been Chairman for six months and I am pleased with the progress that Malcolm Le May, Chief Executive Officer, and the team have made under challenging circumstances.
Westillhave a lot to deliver in 2019 to fully turnaround the Group following the events of 2017 and in light of the ongoing political andeconomic uncertainty in the UK.
However, I am confident thatwearenow well placed and have the right team to deliver a successful PFG for all our stakeholders.
Patrick Snowball Chairman 7 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Introduction Our Group PFG plays a very important role in the financial services PFG has evolved significantly over the last decade, 2.4m sector and in society more generally.
We provide financial responding to ongoing changes in customer needs and customers inclusion to the 10 to 12 million adults in the UK and preferences, as well as emerging market opportunities.
Ireland who are not well served by mainstream lenders.
We are now mainly a bank, combined with smaller more We help our 2.4 recently built and acquired online loan and vehicle We help our 2.4 million customers build better financial million customers finance operations, all of which have taken our business futures by providing them with access to credit and build better and our customer proposition well beyond our historic helping them to develop their credit profile.
By making core of home credit.
Our heritage has informed our financial futures sure that we appropriately balance the needs of all our more personal and human approach to credit, and given by providing them stakeholders customers, regulators, equity and debt us the experience to lead our specialist sector, but we investors and colleagues we aim to deliver attractive with access to have changed and developed with our customers and and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
credit and helping the realities of the market to become a very different them to develop We recognise that operating in our market comes with business than even five years ago.
I believe that it is extra responsibility, particularly as we are the market their credit profile.
critical that we continue to focus on the future and leader.
We are a fully authorised lender and have increasingly work collaboratively across the Group to Patrick Snowball developed specialist business models and products that offer a unique range of joined up products and services, Chairman are tailored to serving our customers.
We offer a more including through digital means, that help put people personal service, including face-to-face in our home ona path to abetter everyday life.
credit business, and we support this with an increasing Vanquis Bank is now by far our largest business on all level of digital interaction.
We undertake robust measures, and its growing 1.8 million customer base affordability assessments and support our customers is central to our strategy of helping our customers through their entire credit journey with us, including progress through access to, and use of credit.
dealing with them in a sympathetic way if they get into The businesscontinues to generate strong new booking financial difficulty.
volumes, and through our well-established low and We are proud of the service we provide and we have grow approach we grant credit line increases to over 130 years of successfully serving customers in customers who demonstrate that they can afford them.
We are enhancing our approach by developing a comprehensive single view of our customers spanning all Offer from NSF our product relationships, leveraging available external On 22 February 2019, NSF made an unsolicited offer data including open banking.
This will enable us to for PFG.
We were disappointed at the hostile and understand their circumstances more fully and make highly opportunistic approach taken by NSF, including better informed and balanced decisions on the best way its decision not to engage with the Board prior to the to help them progress in a sustainable way.
We do not believe that the offer is in the Bank credit card has always helped our customers to best interests of PFG and are confident in PFGs strategy build or rebuild their credit standing over time, and going to deliver growth and sustainable attractive returns forward we intend to further develop our capabilities through its complementary, synergistic and industry to support even more applicants and customers in leading businesses.
building their financial fitness, whether ornotweare As outlined in PFGs statements on 6 March 2019 able toextend credit.
This proposition, initially being and 11 March 2019, the Board believe that as well as built within Vanquis Bank, will be expanded across the undervaluing the Group and its prospects, the offer Group to help more ofour current and prospective presents significant operational and execution risks customers to move forward positively in their lives.
dueto the changing regulatory environment, NSFs Our Vanquis Bank app now has over 1 million registered trackrecord of value destruction and NSFs limited users, demonstrating ahuge appetite to interact with experience across the full breadth of the Groups us through digital channels, while retaining the more businesses.
In addition, the offer has major strategic human and personal call centrebased elements at the flaws and appears to be based upon a misguided view core ofour approach.
The success of our app is giving us that the regulatory approach would be different if the the opportunity to keep customers fully informed and up Group was owned by NSF.
The Board remains focused to date about their card use and status at a time and in a on executing its current strategy as outlined to all way that suits them best, while introducing the Groups stakeholders and is committed to maximising value other offers such as car finance at an appropriate stage forall PFG shareholders, including actively exploring astheyprogress in their credit-building journey.
allappropriate alternatives to achieve that objective.
8 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued Our car finance business, Moneybarn, continues We are also expanding the Satsuma range from the Our proud togrowstrongly, demonstrating the attractiveness small-sum short-term product into the longer larger heritage remains ofouroffer and the demand among consumers who online personal loans space, again with the FCAs in our home credit continue to be underserved by mainstream lenders.
This gives our existing and new customers business, but the We saw the opportunity in the aftermath of the credit further progression opportunities, particularly as we future direction crunch to provide the financial backing required begin to combine Satsumas capabilities with those of toresponsibly serve the needs of customers with vehicle Vanquis Bank which has also developed a loans product there, as with finance where others lacked appetite.
for its credit card customers.
many sectors, is towards more However, the continued success of Moneybarn This is part of our strategy to offer a joined-up product also provides opportunities to leverage the skills, range that allows customers the opportunity to progress remote and digital capabilities and experience of Vanquis Bank, particularly from home credit through Provident Direct and Satsuma interaction that in collections, decision science and new customer offers to credit cards at Vanquis Bank and ultimately customers prefer acquisition.
As part of the Group, Moneybarn has a car loan with Moneybarn.
A full range of options to and increasingly thrived, but I believe there are further significant mutual suit our customers through the main stages of their expect.
benefits from continuing to share the Groups resources credit journey allows us to help them improve their more fully.
everyday lives no matter what their circumstances are.
Patrick Snowball Satsuma continues to grow very strongly, demonstrating Chairman Our proud heritage remains in our home credit business, the customer appeal of the online model, while adjacent but the future direction there, as with many sectors, competitors with unsustainable online business models is towards more remote and digital interaction that continue to falter and leave the market.
customers prefer and increasingly expect.
In response, we have built our Satsuma online loans business from I believe that Satsuma forms an important part of our scratch to scale, and are now introducing a unique comprehensive and joined up product range which product extension called Provident Direct which spans clearly differentiates us from more focused and single the online and home credit channels building from product lenders.
Loans will be underwritten in the customers home, but collected and managed largely remotely, providing a human experience that leverages technology appropriately and seamlessly forthe customer.
We are able to launch this innovative and forward looking proposition with the approval of the regulator largely due to the robust home credit operating model we have put into place working closely with the FCA over the last 18 months.
In particular, Provident alone mandates voice recording of all new UK lending which provides an unrivalled level of evidence of a genuine customer choice in their home for the new remotely collected proposition.
I believe that this model represents the future of home credit, giving us strong differentiated growth opportunities as well as a very positive waytoreconnectwith customers who have leftusinthe past.
9 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report In Moneybarn, we have made significant progress Regulation I intend to towards a settlement of the investigation started by have a much The regulation of our sector has changed fundamentally the FCA in November 2017, with the expected cost of over the last five years, as have the nature of our more proactive the required customer redress and fine covered by the relationships with our three main regulators: the FCA, communication provisions made at the time.
We have also enhanced the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the our termination handling processes and affordability programme with Central Bank of Ireland CBI.
Its fair to say PFG lost its assessments in line with the latest requirements, our shareholders way in 2017, severely damaging our relationship with working closely with the FCA throughout.
in 2019 and all our stakeholders, particularly the FCA, who took In our home credit business, the highly experienced beyond and more over regulation of the consumer credit sector from management team we installed under the most difficult details of this theOfficeof Fair Trading OFT in April 2014. circumstances, have succeeded in turning around the are set out in However, I am very proud to say that under new business working closely to build a strong relationship the governance leadership we have made huge progress in turning with the FCA in the process.
These efforts resulted in section of around the situation.
This includes beginning to earn the FCA having sufficient confidence in the business, this report.
back our trusted position as a leader in the sector, and leadership and operating model to grant us full starting to change the focus and the culture of the Group authorisation in November 2018.
Patrick Snowball back in the right direction, centred around what we Chairman From a position of extreme vulnerability just dofor customers.
Given what we have been through, 12 months earlier, this is a remarkable achievement this is not a quick or easy process, but I am committed for our customers and our business.
Since then, our to making sure we stay the course and see through management team has continued to work very closely thechanges required.
with the FCA which has resulted in the FCA recently We have recently begun to embed our new Blueprint 10p agreeing to the reintroduction of balanced scorecard throughout the organisation in 2019.
This is based targets, performance management and related variable onarenewed purpose underpinned by strategic The Board is proposing pay throughout the field force for the first time since drivers and a defined set of behaviours.
This is anominal final dividend the first half of 2017.
All of these achievements are of 10p per share in respect coveredinmoredetail in Malcolms CEOs review.
based on the strong compliant operating model that of2018 2017: nil has been developed under close FCA scrutiny and are In Vanquis Bank, we have now implemented over 99% dependent on the key elements of it being maintained of the ROP refund programme within the previously going forward.
announced financial provision for refunds and balance reductions and the agreed timetable with the FCA.
Our improved relationship with the regulators is of We have also adapted to the developing regulatory paramount importance not only to our delivery of good requirements relating to enhanced forbearance, customer outcomes, but also for our ability to deliver affordability and persistent debt in the credit cards attractive and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
We have also taken the opportunity to fully review and enhance all areas of how we treat our credit card customers including how we charge fees, how we price and whatproducts we offer.
Following completion of the ROP refund programme, and having carefully considered the lessons we have learned, discussions with the FCA on our plans for anenhanced ROP product and return to new sales haverecently commenced.
10 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued Dividends Our people I am very much looking forward Consistent with the commitment at the time of the The last two years have been a very turbulent time at rights issue, the Board is proposing a nominal final to working with PFG and we would not be where we are now without dividend of 10.0p per share in respect of 2018 2017: nil the hard work and efforts of all of the people in the whole team which results in a dividend cover of 4.7 times 2017: nil.
to embed our If approved at the AGM on 21 May 2019, this will be Firstly, I would like to thank Malcolm and the Group new purpose and paidon 21 June 2019 to shareholders on the register Executive Committee ExCo for their hard work this year culture in 2019, on24 May 2019. in delivering our 2018 objectives during a very difficult and to continue As previously stated, the Boards dividend policy time for the Group.
the work to is tomaintain a dividend cover of at least 1.4 times I would also like to thank both Stuart Sinclair, who ensure that PFG as thehome credit business recovers and moves stood in as Interim Chairman when Malcolm, who was is a strong and into profitability.
previously Executive Chairman, took on the CEOs role, successful business The Board has recently re-evaluated the timing of and Andrea Blance, who is now our Senior Independent going forward.
Accordingly, in respect of the 2019 Director.
Together with Malcolm, they have brought financial year and thereafter, the Board intends to: much needed stability and helped to re-shape the Board Patrick Snowball over the last 12 months.
Following my appointment in Chairman Pay the interim dividend in September rather than September 2018, Stuart stepped down from the Board, in late November: and and I wish him all the very best for the future after Pay the final dividend in late May rather than in 6 years with the Group.
I would also like to thank Rob Anderson, who stepped This will bring the Group in line with other financial down as a non-executive director in December, after institutions and recognises the support of shareholders 9 years, Andrew Fisher, who stepped down as Finance through the Groups recent problems and the rights Director in December, after 12 years with the Group, issue in April 2018. and John Straw, who will not stand for re-election at The voluntary requirement agreed between Vanquis the forthcoming AGM in May.
All three of these Board Bank and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA not members made valuable contributions to the Group to pay dividends to, or enter into certain transactions during their tenure.
outside the normal course of business with, the Group Simon Thomas recently joined the Board as Chief without the PRAs consent, remains in place.
However, Financial Officer CFO, to replace Andrew Fisher.
Simon following the consent of the PRA, Vanquis Bank paid is an experienced CFO with strong sector experience a dividend of 59.8m 2017: nil to its parent, having spent the last 12 years as CFO of a FTSE 250 ProvidentFinancial plc, on 8 March 2019. financial services company and served as Group Financial Controller at Nationwide Building Society earlier in his career.
He is now working closely with Malcolm to deliver the Groups strategy.
We have invested a considerable amount of time strengthening the governance framework, clearly documenting how things should work and then communicating this clearly to the Board, the ExCo, central functions and each of our divisions.
11 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report, 5 700 people Our 5,700 people are critical to delivering our tailored and understanding business model, balancing the personal touch with the use of technology where customers increasingly want and expect it.
We have supplemented this with the recruitment I am very confident that we have assembled a strong ofthree new non-executive directors Angela Knight, Board with the right skills, experience and balance Elizabeth Chambers and Paul Hewitt each of whom to run the Group centred around a PRA authorised bring a depth of experience and expertise in our sector.
and regulated bank, co-ordinated with smaller Angelas experience includes being a non-executive complementary consumer finance businesses director of Lloyds TSB and the CEO of the British authorised and regulated by the FCA and CBI.
I am Bankers Association now UK Finance.
Elizabeths equally confident in the strong divisional management experience includes being a non-executive director teams that we have built and maintained, most recently of Dollar Financial Group, serving as Chief Marketing completed by the agreement in principle with a highly Officer at Barclays and Barclaycard, and Chief Strategy, experienced banking executive to be appointed to Product and Marketing Officer at Western Union.
therole of Managing Director of Vanquis Bank, subject She also led Barclaycards co-branded cards business toPRA andFCA approval.
Pauls experience includes chairing the audit And finally, but certainly not least, I would like to place committeesas a non-executive director of Tesco Bank on record my thanks for all the hard work and efforts and Co-operative Banking Group and serving as Deputy of all my colleagues throughout the Group.
I have Group Chief Executive and CFO of the Co-operative been extremely impressed by the level of passion and Group from 2003 to 2007. commitment of everyone, whether they are in Vanquis In addition, we have also decided to reposition the Bank, CCD, Moneybarn or the corporate office.
I am role of the Chairman of Vanquis Bank to include serving very much looking forward to working with the whole asanon-executive director on the PFG Board.
This will team to embed our new purpose and culture in 2019, help improve decision making and co-ordination and continuing the work to ensure that PFG is a strong between the two Boards.
This is another positive step in ensuring greater coordination and governance across the Group and Patrick Snowball I am pleased to announce that we have reached an Chairman agreement in principle with an individual for this dual 13 March 2019 role, subject to regulatory approval, who has a wealth of experience in retail banking and consumer lending.
I would personally like to thank Jonathan Roe, the current Chairman of Vanquis Bank, who will step down from his role later this year.
