PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 01 Chairs letter to shareholders We are committed to creating sustainable value for all stakeholders.
The Board is focused on the principles of good governance and being Good4Business Board changes Dear shareholder We are very pleased to have welcomed to the Board two new These Governance and Financial Statements are intended Non-executive Directors.
Tamara Minick-Scokalo and Dariusz to provide you with an in-depth analysis of our financial Kucz both joined the Board on 1 May 2018 and each brings performance during the year and an insight into the way to the Group diverse and relevant geographic and industry in which the Board ensures that the principles of good experience.
governance are observed across all parts of the Group.
In particular, the governance section reports on the composition, scope and key focus areas during the year of each of the Dividend and outlook principal standing committees of the Board.
The Groups Balance Sheet remains strong and we will continue to evaluate growth opportunities utilising the Groups brand Our performance during the year portfolio and distribution capability.
Sound corporate governance is especially important in Whilst we expect another challenging year ahead, the business challenging periods.
Whilst the Group has delivered good is well placed to return to growth and consequently the Board profit growth in Asia and a creditable result in Europe, macro hasmaintained the full year dividend.
conditions in Nigeria have resulted in a sharp decline in Africa profits for the year and hence a disappointing result for the Caroline Silver Group as a whole.
Chair 24 July 2018 Within Africa, whilst many of our brands have strengthened their No.
2 positions during the last year, a sustained lack of liquidity at both consumer and trade level and a consequent significant contraction in the size of the market has resulted in lower volumes, prices and margins.
In response, we are taking steps to optimise further our overall product portfolio and to reduce our cost base.
Within Asia, our businesses in Australia and Indonesia have made sound progress in the year, setting good foundations forgrowth in the years to come.
In Europe, good growth in the Groups Beauty division has helped to partially offset the more challenging trading conditions faced in the UK Washing and Bathing division.
In all our markets, we remain focused on our innovation but with a sharpened lens on fewer, bigger, higher margin product launches that will differentiate further our brands, as well as a further reduction in overheads by optimising our operating model.
