Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT POSITIVE PROGRESS It is now two years since QinetiQ launched an ambitious strategy to modernise and grow our Company.
This strategy aims to deliver growth, not just for the short term, but for the next 10 years or more.
We are seeing positive and tangible evidence of this strategy delivering results.
In line with our strategy, we are leading and modernising our core UK Test and Evaluation capabilities, becoming a more international business and innovating in a far more thoughtful and commercial way.
The progress we have made is all the more notable given the challenges in the UK market.
In addition to the headwind from the Single Source Regulations Office this year, we have also felt some of the effects of a constrained defence budget in the UK.
Our strategy was developed in anticipation of these factors, and our financial and operational performance demonstrates it is working.
This year has marked some real milestones for QinetiQ, and as a Board we are particularly proud of some of the key customer initiatives that were Mark Elliott achieved.
From supporting the running of the largest ever European ballistic missile Non-executive Chairman training exercise, enhancing the capabilities of the Typhoon aircraft or protecting over 1,800km of gas pipeline, QinetiQ is helping customers overcome some of their most difficult challenges.
Our international growth continues to accelerate and now contributes 27% of revenue to our business.
With a record breaking year in Australia, and good progress in North America and the Middle East we are supporting an increasingly diverse customer base.
Our investment ensures we remain able to support our customers future needs With our origins in the UK Government itself, QinetiQ has a set of capabilities and facilities that are unique for a public company and are critical to ensuring defence capability.
While these skills and capabilities are unique, we must not be complacent.
It is crucial we invest and modernise to ensure we continue to provide long-term value to our customers in the face of a rapidly changing threat environment.
The defence and security landscape, like many other industries, is going through rapid change.
Our investment both in facilities and our people ensures that our capabilities can support and guide our customers, both in the UK and internationally, through this change.
What supports our customers is the knowledge, skills and experience of our employees.
We are an organisation of more than 3,000 scientists, engineers and technicians, many of whom are technical leaders in their respective fields.
Our employees are instrumental in delivering our strategy, and we continue to invest in their development and ensure they are treated fairly.
A continued focus on good governance As a Board, we are focused on ensuring good governance and oversight of the 27% delivery of the strategy.
In October, Board members spent two days with the of FY18 revenue from executive team conducting a thorough review of our future strategy.
Non-executive international markets Directors also attend quarterly meetings of QinetiQs top one hundred leaders, actively participating in discussions about the strategic direction of the Company.
In addition to providing insight into the delivery of our strategy, these meetings provide 5% an opportunity to oversee the development of the culture in the Company.
The right increase in full year dividend culture enhances our ability to attract top talent, to deliver the strategy, and to 4 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A CLEAR AND DISCIPLINED APPROACH TO CAPITAL ALLOCATION Investing for growth Dividend 1 Organic investment complemented 3 Maintaining our progressive by bolt-on acquisitions where there dividend in line with policy is a strong strategic fit Balance sheet Shareholder distributions 2 Maintaining the necessary level 4 Returning excess cash of balance sheet strength to shareholders effectively manage risk with the highest ethical standards.
We continued our discussions with our Employee Engagement Group which gives us good insight into our employees views and our culture.
As a Board we are keen to develop a culture and organisation that is diverse, open to new ideas, acts swiftly, embraces constructive challenge, and one that draws upon our breadth of skills through collaboration to deliver value to our customers.
We are sensitive to our obligation to ensure our strategy is aligned to our shareholders long-term interests.
During the period, I met with many shareholders who, in total, represented approximately one third of our overall register to listen to their views.
I also met with Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS, a provider of corporate governance and responsible investment solutions to a significant proportion of our shareholders.
In particular, following last years AGM, it was clear that we could have done better in explaining the link between business strategy and our new Remuneration Policy.
The Board is firmly of the view that the new policy achieves the right balance in aligning managements interests with shareholders.
We believe the policy allows the Board to set the right stretching targets on an annual basis, ensuring management are incentivised appropriately for the dynamic market in which we operate.
While the initial targets are annual, the reward is then deferred for a further five years in the form of shares, and can be reduced if performance deteriorates during the vesting period, ensuring long-term alignment with shareholders.
We have improved how we communicate the Remuneration Policy and its implementation in this years Annual Report.
Full year dividend p Our strategy is supported by a clear and disciplined approach to allocation of capital 2018 6.3 In support of our strategy we have a very clear capital allocation policy.
Our priorities 2017 6.0 for capital allocation are: organic investment complemented by bolt-on acquisitions 2016 5.7 where there is a strong strategic fit: the maintenance of balance sheet strength: a 2015 5.4 progressive dividend: and the return of excess cash to shareholders.
2014 4.6 In line with this policy, the Board proposes a final dividend of 4.2p per share for the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 4.0p, making the full year dividend 6.3p p 4.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Final dividend to be paid on will be paid on 31 August 2018 to shareholders on the register at 3 August 2018.
The full year dividend represents an increase of 5%, reflecting our commitment to a progressive dividend.
Progressive dividend policy Since 2010, we have consistently In future, the Board will announce the full year dividend at the preliminary results for grown our dividend in line with the year in question, with the interim dividend expected to represent one-third of the our progressive dividend policy.
Annual General Meeting 2018 Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Board members, executives and all employees 11am on 25 July 2018, at the at QinetiQ for their contribution over the past year.
offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Mark Elliott Street, London EC2A 2H2.
Non-executive Chairman, 24 May 2018 Strategic report | Chairmans statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5
