Strategic Report Chairmans statement Welcome to our first Annual Report.
Secondly, as our CEO, Paul Feeney, discusses later in this report, the Quilter that we brought to market was not the finished article.
We have more to do to reshape thebusiness and to improve our levels ofefficiency.
Quilter has been built both organically and by acquisition over the last sixyears and was then brought to market in line with the timetable set by Old Mutual plc for their Managed Separation into demerged businesses.
We see significant scope to optimise our business in terms of delivering efficiency initiatives in both the short andmedium term, as well as periodically reviewing the operations within the Group to ensure that they are collectively contributing towards shareholder value creation.
Dividends Our dividend policy was set out in our Listing Glyn Jones Chairman documentation and is described onpage 7.
Following the special interim dividend of 12.0pence per share which was paid on I am delighted to introduce Quilters 2018 As this is my first Chairmans letter for Quilter, 21September 2018, the Board is pleased Annual Report and Accounts Annual I would like to highlight two important points torecommend a final dividend of 3.3 pence Report, our first as an independent quoted in respect of where the Company is today.
The dividend willbe paid, company.
Our primary listing on the LSE These points are important in terms of subject to shareholder approval at our 2019 andsecondary listing on the JSE on 25 June understanding the framework for the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2019, to 2018 represented a significant milestone for direction that Quilter will take as we seek to shareholders on the register on 26 April 2019. our business.
We were pleased to attract a deliver robust returns for our shareholders.
strong, high quality investor base from the Board shares offered through our IPO as well as First, capital discipline is very important to We spent 2017 ensuring that we had a enjoying ongoing support from the investors us.
We have started public life in a prudent Boardthat was fit for purpose to take Quilter who came to us via the Managed Separation fashion with a well capitalised balance sheet.
forward as a public, listed company.
We do not apologise for this as we recognise added breadth and depth to our existing that at times of market uncertainty, when expertise during 2018, including welcoming Overview weface specific business and market risks, Ruth Markland as our Senior Independent 2018 was a year of strong financial having a robust capital position is a source Director at the time of our Listing.
Ruth performance for the Company.
In a year ofstrength and opportunity.
I am pleased brings considerable FTSE 100 public company characterised by increasingly challenging that the feedback from our shareholders experience as a Senior Independent Director.
markets and weakening investor sentiment, supports this position.
However, the Board In August 2018 we appointed Paul Matthews we delivered year-on-year adjusted profit has no intention of hoarding excess capital and Dr Suresh Kana to our Board.
Paul brings growth of 11% to233 million and generated for no good reason and, I believe, the return relevant UK Wealth Management industry net client cash flow NCCF of 4.7 billion of the net surplus proceeds from the sale experience and Suresh brings a South excluding Quilter Life Assurance, each ofour Single Strategy asset management African governance and business ahead of, or consistent with, our guidance business in September 2018 has perspective, which is important given atthe time of our IPO.
demonstrated our commitment in this ourshareholder register.
We are excited about our growth We achieved a number of milestones during potential over the next several years, both 2018 including the Managed Separation organically and through bolt-on acquisitions.
fromOld Mutual plc, the Listing of the If we find ourselves in aposition where Company, the sale of our Single Strategy growth options become unattractive, we will, asset management business, as well as of course, accelerate thereturn of capital to successfully integrating a number of small shareholders.
We also ended theyear on a strong financial footing, withaprudent balance sheet.
06 Quilter Annual Report 2018 In November 2018 we announced that Mark taken of its approach to South African Dividend policy Satchel would succeed Tim Tookey as Chief corporate governance, given our secondary Financial Officer in March of this year.
I would Listing on the JSE.
Key elements of our dividend policy like to express my thanks to Tim for the huge are as follows: amount of work that he has done for the Our work in applying the code is described Company, first as a Non-executive Director more fully in our corporate governance Dividend 40-60% of post-tax adjusted and, over the last two years, as CFO.
The Board pay-out policy profit prior UK public company experience was issatisfied that we have in place a robust critical in ensuring our Listing process went governance structure, which is compliant Split: interim One third as smoothly as it did.
I am also delighted that, with the Code and is fit forpurpose.
We have final dividend Two thirds in Mark, we are fortunate to have an internal ensured that our governance arrangements candidate who was ready to step up to the continue to adapt, as appropriate, to achieve Our first dividend will be the final dividend role of CFO.
Mark has been ably mentored by compliance with the 2018 version of the inrespect of 31 December 2018, and will be Tim over the last two years to help facilitate UKCorporate Governance Code which paidfollowing the approval of the financial this transition.
Mark was a Board member hasapplied to us since 1January 2019. statementsat the AGM.
ofOld Mutual Wealth prior to our Listing andso is well known to the Board, to the Odd-lot offer Recommended final dividend for 2018 Executive team and to a number of our major As part of our drive for greater efficiency shareholders.
As well as supporting Paul andin line with our desire to act in the best Feeney with the development of Quilter over interests of all our shareholders, we are 3.3p share the last six years, Mark was also responsible seeking shareholder and other requisite To be paid on 20 May 2019 for leading the sale of our Single Strategy approvals to undertake an odd-lot offer.
asset management business in 2018, Anodd-lot offer entails Quilter making an Special interim dividend developing our Optimisation plans and was offer to eligible registered shareholders also very involved in the detailed mechanics typically owners of under 100 shares subject of our Listing process and debt capital raise.
to certain exclusions to repurchase their 12.0p share Iknow that Mark has allthe key skills and shares at a modest premium to the market As announced on 8 August 2018, we paid attributes to build on Tims legacy and to price.
Quilter currently has nearly 460,000 a special interim dividend on 21 September 2018 beahighly effective public company CFO.
shareholders, of which nearly half each hold of12.0 pence per share from the proceeds of less than 100 shares.
These, principally South thesale of our Single Strategy asset management business.
The special interim dividend was Our Board is comprised of a majority of African, shareholders were originally granted equivalent to areturn of capital to shareholders Non-executive Directors and I am confident their shares in Old Mutual plc fromtheir of221 million representing the surplus capital that it has the right balance of skills and interest as policyholders when that business proceeds from thetransaction, after repayment experience to challenge and support the demutualised in 1999.
They have not actively of300 million ofdebt.
More details onthe Board chosen to invest in a UK-domiciled company and appointments can be found in the and have become Quilter shareholders as a corporate governance section on result of our Managed Separation from Old pages38to63.
The proposed odd-lot offer will reduce the complexity and cost to Quilter Corporate governance ofmanaging our shareholder base and The Board philosophy at Quilter is to ensure willallow investors holding small numbers that the business is well governed with the ofshares to dispose of their holdings in a Directors both supporting the executive timely and cost effective manner.
Eligible andholding them accountable to robustly shareholders can, of course, elect to retain defined performance metrics.
We want to their shareholding in Quilter, ifthey so choose.
ensure an inclusive, strong and supportive culture with clear lines of accountability Conclusion throughout the organisation.
We will operate 2018 has been a significant year in the in a safe and regulatory compliant manner Companys history and I feel privileged to and ensure that there is sufficient capital and beChairman at this exciting time in Quilters liquidity, with appropriate buffers, to support development.
On behalf of the Board, I would the business in its day-to-day operations.
like to thank our management team and allofour employees for their continued At Listing, Quilter became subject to the dedication and hard work.
corporate governance requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In the months leading up to the Listing, muchwork was carried out to ensure that the Board had constituted appropriate Committees and adopted relevant policies Glyn Jones and procedures to support the development Chairman of a robust governance structure and our compliance with the Code at Listing.
While the King Code IV in South Africa does not strictly apply to Quilter, the Board is satisfied that an appropriate account has also been Strategic Report | Chairmans statement Quilter Annual Report 2018 07
