Strategic report Chairmans letter Dear shareholder The Board has full confidence in the strategic direction of the Group and the new leadership team, who are focused on operational improvements to drive sustained profit growth.
Ian Burke Chairman Financial performance Ranks aim is to be the UKs 2017 18 has been a challenging year for the Group leading multi-channel gaming driven principally by a disappointing performance operator.
The Group looks to from Grosvenors casinos.
meet this goal through delivering 1 Revenue for Grosvenor Casinos declined by 6.1% inthe year.
Performance was materially impacted by against its five strategic pillars: further enhanced customer due diligence following 1. create a compelling multi-channel offer: the published advice of the UK Gambling Commission in September 2017.
Consequently, 2. build digital capability and scale: 1 customer visits declined resulting in revenue falling 3. develop our venues: 9.9% in H2 compared to a 2.4% fall in H1.
Grosvenors performance was further hindered by 4. invest in our brands and marketing: and alower gaming margin from its major players and 5. use technology to drive efficiency and 2 adverse weather in Q3.
Operating profit fell by improvecustomer experience.
Further detail of the Groups progress against these 1 Meccas revenue fell 2.6% in the year driven by a pillars can be found in the Strategy and KPIs and 2 7.9% decline in customer visits.
Operating profit Operating review sections of this report.
fellby 4.3%, a lower decline than expected by management as a result of improved cost control across both employment and marketing activities.
Meccas new bingo concepts Big Bingo Bash, Bonkers Bingo, student events, Newbie nights and other broader entertainment events continued to be tested with good results.
These concepts are helping drive visits as well as contributing incremental revenue and profit.
Before adjustments for customer incentives.
Before exceptional items, as per note 2 to the financial statements.
12 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 1 The Groups UK digital business grew with revenue Responsible gambling up 9.9%.
Importantly, a successful Meccarena Rank remains committed to promoting responsible marketing campaign and ongoing investments into gambling to those customers who enjoy gambling the meccabingo.
com offer drove revenue up 10.9%, as a recreational activity and reducing its use for following two years of low single-digit growth rates.
those who are vulnerable or otherwise at risk of 1 Grosvenorcasinos.
com grew revenue 8.2% in the experiencing harm.
During the year, we continued year, however the more stringent customer due to develop our approach to reducing the social diligence impacted H2 performance resulting in impact of problem gambling and have made the 1 revenue to decline in H2 following strong growth in following progress in the last 12 months: H1.
Insufficient marketing investment and a additional colleague training around enhanced temporary system issue, which resulted in some of customer due diligence: our more valuable multi-channel customers not being contacted, exacerbated grosvenorcasinos.
creation of dedicated customer verification 2 coms H2 weak performance.
Operating profit fell teams for both retail and digital: by 1.8m in the year to 20.9m following the improved customer interaction record keeping introduction of remote gaming duty RGD on following the introduction of the enhanced customer bonuses.
This resulted in 2.5m of Neon system in our casinos: incremental RGD in the year.
developed a data driven alerts system to help Our Spanish operations, Enracha, delivered a strong identify problem gamblers at an earlier stage in 1 performance with euro revenue up 11.0% and euro their game play: 2 operating profit up 2.8%.
creation of complex models based on problem Acquisition of YoBingo markers in our digital business to help drive In May 2018, Rank completed the acquisition of customer interventions: QSB Gaming Limited, the owner of YoBingo.
es, a continued the trial of a customer risk leading Spanish digital bingo business, for an identification initiative alongside members of initialconsideration of 23.1m and, subject to the National Casino Forum: and futureperformance, up to a maximum increased social responsibility messaging in our considerationof 52.0m.
bingo venues alongside the introduction of The acquisition of YoBingo.
es provides Rank with a machine gaming safeguards.
secure and strong digital bingo presence in Spain, a high-growth and regulated digital gaming market.
YoBingo is performing ahead of expectations but due to the timing of the acquisition has not materially benefited Group revenues in 2017 18.
For further detail on the acquisition please refer tonote 32 to the financial statements.
com | 13 Strategic report Chairmans letter CONTINUED Management team changes Board changes Chief executive Retail structure In March 2018, we announced thatHenry Birch During the year, the Group created a single would step down aschief executive, having advised leadership team across its UK retail businesses with the Board of his decision to leave thebusiness.
the promotion of Alan Morgan to retail managing director, covering both Mecca and Grosvenor The Board would like to thank Henry for his Casinos.
The retail team was further strengthened contribution to the Group over his four-year tenure bythe appointment of Olly Raeburn, chief and wisheshim every success in his future ventures.
marketing officer, and Debbie Husband, John OReilly was appointed following a rigorous operationsdirector for Grosvenor Casinos.
selection process to ensure we appointed a chief Given that a single customer view is the cornerstone executive with the right skills and expertise to meet of a successful multi-channel brand, Olly has also the ambition of the Group.
John assumed the role assumed responsibility for marketing across both ofchief executive on 7 May 2018, with Henry theGroups retail and digital channels.
leaving the business at the same time.
Chief transformation officer John brings a wealth of gambling industry During the year, I am pleased to announce that Jim experience, particularly in digital, and I am Marsh will join the Group on 1 delighted that he is joining the Board as its chief the Group created October 2018 to take up his executive.
His impressive reputation and track position as chief transformation record for delivering growth means he is wella single leadership officer.
Jim has led and delivered equipped to drive our performance going forward.
team across its UK transformations in a variety of Clive Jennings sectors and will join the Rank Ranks finance director, Clive Jennings, will leave retail businesses Executive Committee.
He joins us the business on 17 August to pursue other from McKinsey & Company where opportunities.
Clive leaves with the Boards with the he was a partner in their appreciation and thanks for the significant role he transformation team.
promotion of has played in the development of the Company Chief information officer overhis 18-year tenure.
A search for Clives Alan Morgan to I am also pleased to announce the successoris underway.
recent appointment of Jonathan The Groups head of reporting, James Pizey, will retail managing Greensted as chief information stepup as interim chief financial officer until officer.
recently chief information officer Alan Morgan at Travelodge where he led a I am also delighted that Alan joined the Board as successfulIT transformation anexecutive director on 7 May 2018.
Phil Moyes will leave the in-depth understanding of our venues business and I business following a am confident he will contribute significantly to the comprehensive handover.
The Earl of Kilmorey, PC, currently chair of the responsible gambling committee, has notified the Board of his intention not to seek re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting and will therefore step down later this year having completed over six years on the Board.
14 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS I would like to thank Lord Kilmorey for his I would like to take this opportunity, valuablecontribution as a director during his six-year tenure on the Board and his chairmanship on behalf of the Board, to thank of the responsible gambling committee.
Ranks 9,744 employees for their Regulation and taxation In the recent Government review of machine continued passion and dedication allocations in UK casinos the Government stated inexciting and entertaining that machine allocations were low by international standards.
The Government also stated that if ourcustomers additional measures are put in place to manage the risk of gambling-related harm effectively, they wouldlook again at casino machine limits.
Rank Current trading and outlook hasbeen working within the National Casino Forumto enhance player protection measures Trading in the short six-week period to 12 August acrossthe casino industry.
2018 has been challenging following the unseasonal hot weather which has adversely impacted our UK The Department for Culture, Media and Sport retail businesses.
DCMS has indicated that an increase in Remote The Board has full confidence in the strategic Gaming Duty RGD will be required to compensate direction of the Group and the new leadership team for the predicted loss in machine duty following is focused on operational improvements to drive theintroduction of the 2 maximum stake for sustainable profit growth.
A company-wide fixedodd betting terminals FOBTs.
The earliest transformation programme is currently in implementation of any increase to RGD is expected development to identify, validate and prioritise to be April 2019. thekey initiatives to grow revenue and extract Dividend costsavings.
The programme is expected to be The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend self-funding in this financial year.
of 5.3 pence per share to be paid on 30 October 2018 Further detail on the programme can be found to shareholders on the register at 21 September inJohn OReillys Q&A section on page 18 to 20.
This will take the full-year dividend to 7.45 pence per share, up 2.1% on theprevious year.
The Our people Groups dividend has thus reduced to 2.0 times I would like to take the opportunity, on behalf of cover from 2.2 times in theprior year.
the Board, to thank Ranks 9,744 employees for their continued passion and dedication in exciting and entertaining our customers.
Ian Burke Chairman 15 August 2018 www.
