Directors report Governance Chairmans statement The Board remains alert to broader economic and political uncertainties but remains confident in its ability to deliver growing returns based on a clear and focused strategy.
Gavin Tipper Chairman of the Board returns and our priority is to generate growing The Nominations Committee undertook a Overview and performance income as the foundation for a fully covered search for a new independent Nonexecutive The year has been characterised by and progressive dividend.
Accordingly, we are Director and Elizabeth Peace was appointed considerable macroeconomic and political pleased to have announced another solid set to the Board in November 2017.
While a number of the major of results with a sector leading dividend yield pleased to welcome Liz, who has settled into global economies are showing steady of 6.3 per cent on net asset value per share.
her new role nicely and her insight and wealth improvements, the potential for major trade Taken together with a 3.4 per cent increase in of experience added considerably to our wars and sanctions at various levels all pose a the Groups net asset value, this results in a discussions during the year.
The UK has been total return of 9.8 per cent.
subject to a prolonged period of uncertainty Greg Clarke, who had chaired the Board following the Brexit vote and the difficulty since2011, stepped down on 24 July 2018.
Board oversight government has faced in agreeing on a united TheCompany underwent a transformation The Board committees had an active year.
approach and negotiating a sensible exit.
and made significant progress towards its TheAudit and Risk Committee completed Itunfortunately appears that this uncertainty strategic objectives during Gregs tenure and, an audit tender process, which was aligned and the negative consequences thereof may on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank with the scheduled rotation of the audit persist for some time.
him for his leadership and guidance.
Three audit firms were invited to a strong and determined management team, It has consequently been a challenging tender and after a competitive process, a steadily improving portfolio of assets, a clear 12months for many businesses in the UK.
afinal recommendation was made to the strategy and an experienced Board: I believe Inaddition to the general negative effects of Board in October to appoint the UK firm of that the Company is well positioned for the the political and macroeconomic uncertainty, KPMG.
We offer our sincere thanks to KPMG next phase of its development.
the Company has been exposed to the Ireland, the Companys auditor since 2010. ongoing structural change in UK consumer Following the retirement of Greg Clarke Furtherdetails on the process and the Audit shopping habits, aspects of which are as Chairman, the composition of each of and Risk Committees activities can be found appearing in Germany.
In line with our capital the Board committees was reviewed and, on page88.
recycling strategy, we made a number of consequently, Sue Ford accepted the chair of Despite good progress against the strategic disposals and reinvestments to reduce our the Audit and Risk Committee and Liz Peace objectives, the Remuneration Committee exposure to retail and align our portfolio to the chair of the CSRCommittee.
was disappointed that there was nil vesting those sectors experiencing what we regard as of the executive LTIP awards for the third sustainable growth.
Specifically, we disposed Stakeholders consecutive year.
The LTIP vesting next year of the German supermarket portfolio during The CSR Committee is responsible for will be subject to the new Remuneration the year and reinvested the proceeds into monitoring stakeholder engagement, in Policy, approved by shareholders at the London serviced offices, an asset class which respect of which a new policy was adopted 2017 AGM, and the outcome should provide is proving defensive in the current market.
The policy can be found in the some insight into how well the results of the CSR report on page 68.
We are also pleased to Despite the challenging environment, the policy are aligned with shareholder returns.
report that the Groups GRESB score for the Board has remained focused on, and delivered The new Corporate Governance Code will 2018 review year improved by 11 per cent.
against, its strategic priorities of strengthening apply to RDI from 1 September 2019 and the the balance sheet and improving the portfolio Remuneration Committee has reviewed the quality to ensure that we are able to produce requirements and made certain commitments growing and sustainable earnings.
We have to a revised remuneration policy which will be long held the view that income will be an put to shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
Details increasingly important component of total of the commitments can be found on page 98.
74 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Liz Peace has been appointed as our dominating the decision making and Corporate governance statement employees nominated Board member.
comprised an appropriate combination Compliance with the UK Corporate Anemployee forum has been established of Executive and Nonexecutive Directors.
Governance Code 2016 theCode which will provide feedback to the Board, via In the Board evaluation the robust and Liz, where appropriate.
Our workforce is a RDI is a UK REIT with a premium listing on thorough debates held by the Directors major asset and it is important that we build the Main Market of the LSE and a secondary were identified to be a major strength of on the positive culture, excellent work ethic listing on the Real Estate Real Estate theBoard.
and strong team spirit in the Company.
Holding and Development sector of the On 24 September 2018, the Company Main Board of the JSE.
The Company was We have had a busy programme of investor was classed as a smaller company incorporated in the Isle of Man in 2004, under relations this year with a series of property in accordance with the Code and, as the name of Wichford P. L. C. and with the tours and investor days.
These are designed such, Board composition currently registered number 111198C.
InSeptember to provide an opportunity for large and complies with the Code.
However, the 2011, the Company changed its name to small shareholders to discuss their views Nominations Committee will continue to Redefine International P. L. C. and in December with management.
Feedback from investor target a balance of independence on the 2013 reregistered under the Isle of Man meetings is reported to the Board and Board in the coming year.
It should be Companies Act 2006 with the registered discussed and acted on where appropriate.
further noted that to ensure that there number 10534V.
In December 2017, the At the 2017 AGM more than 20 per cent is enough independent oversight of Company was rebranded and its name of relevant votes were registered against related party transactions, a committee changed to RDI REIT P. L. C. TheCompanys the resolutions allowing the Directors to comprising solely of independent home state is the UnitedKingdom.
Although these resolutions directors has been established to review were in line with UK guidelines, our South Further to the secondary listing of the such matters before deciding whether a African shareholders regarded the level Company in South Africa on 28 October transaction can progress to the Board for of shares being authorised for issue as 2013, the JSE accepted that RDI would final consideration.
Theresolutions were amended primarily comply with the Code as issued by b.
2.3: Nonexecutive Directors after consultation and I am pleased to report the Financial Reporting Council in April2016 that there were minimal votes against the www.
uk as opposed to the should be appointed for a specified term.
resolutions at the January 2018 AGM.
provisions of the King IV Report on Corporate Explanation: Directors are appointed Governance for South Africa, 2016.
It for a term which expires when either Looking ahead should be noted that during the reporting the Director i is not re-appointed Notwithstanding the challenges that the next period ended 31August 2018 and until following retirement, ii is removed year will bring, the UK and Germany remain 24September2018, RDI was a constituent or vacates office, iii resigns or does two of Europes strongest economies and are of the FTSE 250, during which the Company not offer himself for re-election, or iv attractive investment destinations.
Whilst the complied with all of the Code principles, terminates his appointment on three Board remains alert to broader economic but did not comply with the following Code months notice.
It should be noted that as and political uncertainties and their potential provisions: all Directors are subject to reelection at impact on market conditions, we are confident the AGM, no appointment is guaranteed a.
1.2: Half of the Board should of our ability to deliver growing returns based for a specified time.
However, the comprise independent Nonexecutive on a clear and focused strategy.
reappointment of any independent Directors.
Nonexecutive Director who has served The Board recommends that shareholders Explanation: The Board currently on the Board for more than six years vote in favour of all of the resolutions comprises the Chairman, four executives, willbe subject to a rigorous review proposed at the AGM to be held at 11.00am fourindependent non-executives and and the results of their performance on 24January2019.
The meeting will take two nonexecutives who represent the evaluation noted when being considered place at St Dunstans, one of our newly Companys largest shareholder, Redefine for reelection.
acquired London serviced offices, and the Properties Limited.
Board will be on hand to answer any questions Compliance with the Listing Liz Peace was appointed in November you may have.
2017, which increased the level of Rules, DTRs and other regulations Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would independence on the Board to 45%.
6R through like to thank all those who supported the However, Greg Clarke stepped down as toLR 9.8.
7A are contained in this report.
Company during the year, including our Chairman in July 2018 and was replaced The disclosures required under DTR 7.1 and shareholders, brokers, lenders, suppliers, by Gavin Tipper, who has served on the 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules thebroader communities in which we Board as an independent Nonexecutive are contained in this report.
operate, and our management and Director since 2011.
Thestrong performance we Although the Company is registered in level of independence was reduced delivered this year was a result of the effort, to40%.
the Isle of Man, and has less than 250 enthusiasm, entrepreneurial flair and support employees, RDI strives to adhere to UK Although the composition failed to of all involved.
requirements and other regulations for meet the provisions of the Code, the larger companies in order to provide greater Board structure did meet the Code Gavin Tipper transparency to shareholders.
principles, with no block of individuals Chairman of the Board 25 October 2018 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 75
