Chairmans statement the board and at the heart of our success.
We have ongoing discussions at board level about how we measure and monitor our culture.
As our business grows, the board recognises the continued importance of good communication and will ensure that the strong client-centric behaviours that are embedded within the business continue to thrive.
Throughout 2018, the board had particular focus on the impact of growth on our culture.
Outside of board meetings, non-executive directors have held a number of constructive meetings, both individually and as a whole, with groups of employees across the business to share experiences more directly.
Corporate governance and stewardship continue to be important in Rathbones and the report on pages 56 to 65 outlines how we have taken this important agenda forward in 2018.
We believe that the active approach we take on Mark Nicholls corporate governance and stewardship issues arising in the Chairman companies we invest in is in the best interests of our clients.
It also helps us strive for high standards in our own corporate governance and disclosure, and we are supportive of the 2018 A review of 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code changes, which we plan to Despite weaker investment markets in the final quarter of adopt in full by the end of 2019. the year, 2018 was a good year financially for Rathbones.
During the year we also implemented considerable regulatory Risk and regulation changes associated with MiFID II, the Asset Management Market Study and the General Data Protection Regulation The past year has involved considerable work to implement successfully.
These changes had a significant impact on changes driven by continued regulatory developments.
The our clients and across the business.
effects of these changes will be felt for some time.
Our risk management processes continue to play an important role in Rathbones continues to grow organically, but our growth decision-making and managing the business.
The report from in 2018 was dominated by the completion of the Speirs & the new chairman of the group risk committee, Terri Duhon, Jeffrey acquisition in August.
The business is a strong is set out on page 66.
In 2018, we paid particular attention to cultural fit, adding 6.7 billion of funds under management the risks associated with cybercrime and business resilience, and administration at the time of acquisition, and creating and the operational risks of implementing the GDPR and a leading presence in Scotland.
We are enjoying working MiFID II.
Non-executive members of the board have also with the Speirs & Jeffrey team and look forward to participated in a number of training and operational exercises welcoming their clients on to our systems in mid-2019.
We will continue to see the Our financial results reflected the relatively strong investment impacts of regulatory change in 2019. markets that featured for most of the year but the final quarter At the beginning of June, we significantly reduced our of 2018 was a poor one for investors and asset managers alike.
exposure to property risk when we successfully assigned Despite weak markets at the end of the year, our funds under all legacy Curzon Street leases to a third party.
This has management and administration reached 44.1 billion at 31 resulted in a net write-back of non-underlying head office December 2018, up 12.8% from 39.1 billion last year.
Profit relocation costs of 2.8 million 2017: net costs of 16.2 million before tax for the year of 61.3 million increased 4.1% year in the year.
on year 2017: 58.9 million and reflected the impact of a number of non-underlying items, including costs associated The board also recognises the additional operational risks with the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey.
Basic earnings per associated with the integration of Speirs & Jeffrey and will share of 88.7p represented a decrease of 4.3% from 92.7p in ensure these are managed to within a sensible risk appetite.
A full analysis of all non-underlying items impacting profit before tax can be found on page 23.
Brexit Our overall growth helped deliver underlying profit Brexit is likely to be one of the most significant political and before tax of 91.6m 2017: 87.5 million, resulting in an economic events to impact the United Kingdom in our underlying operating margin of 29.4% for the year 2017: lifetimes.
The lack of consensus on the United Kingdom's 30.6%.
Underlying earnings per share of 142.5p represented strategy for the future creates unprecedented levels of an increase of 2.7% from 138.8p in 2017.
In line with our uncertainty and the longer term implications will not progressive dividend policy, the board is recommending a be clear for some time.
final dividend of 42p per share.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 66p per share, an increase of 8.2% over last year.
For these reasons we continue to monitor Brexit-related developments closely.
As a UK business with no operations in other European Union countries, no material dependencies Governance and culture on goods or people from other European Union countries and Rathbones culture based on professionalism, putting clients a predominantly UK client base, we anticipate that the first, a collegiate approach and integrity remains a priority of operational impacts on our business will be relatively small.
2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report In particular, Brexit will bring no changes to the basis or nature Strategy of the services we provide to the vast majority of our clients When we set our five-year strategy in 2014, we had the and investors, who are based in the UK.
However, we ambition to reach 40 billion of funds under management recognise that the impact of Brexit more generally could affect by the end of 2018.
A combination of organic growth, earningsthe value of our funds under management and administration.
enhancing acquisitions, positive investment performance and Investors in the Luxembourg SICAV funds managed by favourable markets has helped us to realise this ambition and Rathbone Unit Trust Management will see some changes to we now manage 44.1 billion 2014 opening funds: 22.0 the basis on which these funds are delivered.
It is also possible billion.
Further detail on our journey over the last five years that there may be some implications for our private clients can be found on page 17.
We expect to update the market on based in other EEA countries depending on the exact nature the next phase of our growth during the second half of 2019. of the services they receive and regulatory framework agreed in the transitional period or in the event of an exit from the EU Supporting our employees without agreement.
We support the broader initiatives in the 2018 Corporate We continue to devote considerable resources to the Governance Code, which include workforce engagement, investment implications of Brexit for client portfolios and diversity and cultural issues.
We believe that these require our range of funds, and regularly communicate our views separate but related initiatives and we are actively considering through formal and informal briefings from our research how best to give them impetus.
The board holds a strong team to clients and advisers.
desire for Rathbones to be a business where every employee has the opportunity to build a successful career and find the Board changes and succession right balance between work and personal life.
This has been our broad goal for some time and, over the past year, we have As part of our normal succession planning, the board made specific improvements including signing the Women in continues to monitor its capabilities and assesses what Finance Charter and rolling out training programmes covering new skills are necessary to strengthen both the board and diversity, inclusion and unconscious bias across the firm.
the wider business over time, taking into account the existing balance of knowledge, experience and diversity.
This year, The board recognises that the securing of true diversity is not we have implemented a number of changes in accordance an overnight change and will take time, but we are committed with our succession plans which place us in a strong position to tackling the underlying causes of our gender imbalance in to lead the business successfully in the future.
This will involve attracting talented people, enabling their career paths to senior management, removing Taking these in order, in July 2018 we welcomed Terri Duhon any unconscious bias in our behaviours and actively creating to the board.
Terri has wide experience in the financial services a culture of inclusion across the company.
Further information industry and was appointed chair of the risk committee on the on the initiatives we offer to support and engage staff can be departure of Kathryn Matthews after nine years of excellent found in our corporate responsibility report on page 41. service.
We were also delighted to welcome Colin Clark to the board in October 2018.
Colins considerable experience in the investment management industry will be of great value to Engaging with shareholders Rathbones in the years ahead.
We are fortunate to have many supportive long-term Following a rigorous recruitment process, we announced the shareholders with whom we engage on a regular basis.
In appointment of Jennifer Mathias to the group finance director 2018 and at the beginning of 2019 we have consulted with role in October 2018.
Jennifers knowledge and experience in them on executive remuneration and we continue to hold the wealth management and private banking sectors will be an open and constructive dialogue in analyst and investor welcome and she will join us on 1 April 2019. meetings.
Shareholder support was evidenced this year by the success of our 60 million share placing to support the Finally, in November 2018, we announced that Philip Howell acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey.
would be retiring from his role as chief executive by our Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2019 having achieved a successful period of considerable growth.
Under Philips Outlook leadership, Rathbones has firmly established itself as the Our priorities for 2019 will be the successful integration of leading independent UK wealth manager and, on behalf of Speirs & Jeffrey, the roll-out of the next phase of our growth the board, I would like to thank him for the strong direction, and the smooth transition of our executive management team.
unfailing commitment and dedication he has provided to Rathbones during his tenure.
Despite political and economic uncertainties, we remain confident in the underlying strength of our business and its Philip is to be succeeded by Paul Stockton, currently longer-term prospects.
group finance director and managing director of Rathbone Investment Management.
Having worked with Paul for many years, I am delighted with his promotion to the role of chief executive.
Paul has both considerable experience and a deep Mark Nicholls knowledge of Rathbones, its values and culture.
I wish him Chairman every success as he takes on his new responsibilities.
