Chairmans statement RB 2.0 is helping to build solid top-line momentum.
RB has been on a journey to become a world leader in consumer health.
Chris Sinclair Chairman Total dividend for the year 170.7p 2017: 164.3p Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 04 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A year of good progress The Board intends to use RBs strong operating cash flow The Company showed immense skill, effort and determination generation for the benefit of Shareholders.
Our priority in putting the RB 2.0 reorganisation into practice during remainsto invest our financial resources back into the business, the year while at the same time integrating the largest including reducing debt.
We intend to continue our current and most complex acquisition we have ever made.
Our policy of paying an ordinary dividend equivalent to around new, more focused and accountable operating structure 50% of total adjusted net income.
is firmly embedded within RB.
We saw good momentum and growth in 2018 and it is clear that RB 2.0 is the right RB 2.0 is helping to build solid top-line momentum and we platform for the Companys long-term success.
We made sawa number of improving trends as we closed the year.
good progress on improving our operating performance Whilemargin pressures continued, we are managing them and creating the strategic flexibility of two structurally welland striking the right balance between cost, pricing and independent business units.
The Mead Johnson Nutrition competitiveness in the marketplace.
MJN integration progressed well and made a good contribution to our consumer healthcare operations with We saw steady progress in the Hygiene Home business with a very solid turnaround in its first full year as part of RB.
strong performances from key brands in developing markets and this business unit is now tracking at the top end of our Business performance revenue growth forecasts.
Total full-year FY Net Revenue was 12,597million, with growth of 3% on both a pro-forma and like-for-like LFL Our Health portfolio experienced much deeper change basis.
Growth was balanced with relatively equal contributions duringthe year owing to the integration of MJN, but still from volume and price mix.
The impact of consolidating our showed good progress in 2018.
IFCN performed well despite MJN business for a full 12 months in 2018 versus six-and-a-half the Q3 supply chain disruption, while the non-nutrition months in 2017 added 12% to growth.
Total growth, at part of Health had a challenging year.
We are delivering constant exchange rates, was therefore 15%, and at the our targeted synergies in Health and from an operational upper end of our target of 14-15%.
Growth was broad perspective we are on track for delivery of our mediumbasedand innovation led across both business units.
A key highlight has been our progress in pursuing e-commerce and digital excellence with a highly Our growth in adjusted earnings enables us to reward our effective approach developed in China and then rolled out Shareholders through increasing the dividend payment.
The core of value creation for RB is to ensure our TheDirectors have proposed a final dividend of 100.2 pence Health operating model achieves top-of-market growth in per share, which when added to the interim dividend of 70.5 a market expected to grow 3-5% in the medium term.
pence, gives a full-year dividend of 170.7 pence per share, an increase of 4%.
Subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM inMay 2019, this will be paid to Shareholders on 23 May 2019, who were on the register on 23 April 2019.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 05 Chairmans statement continued Innovation Andrew Bonfield joined us in July 2018 as a Non-Executive We are excited about our innovation engine as a platform Director and a member of the Audit Committee.
He became for driving outperformance.
A highlight in our IFCN business, the Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the for example, was the launch in H1 of Enfamil NeuroPro, Nomination Committee with effect from January 2019. which supported IFCNs strong performance.
There were also successful new product initiatives from Finish, Lysol Mehmood Khan joined us as a Non-Executive Director at the and Vanish in Hygiene Home and from Durex, Nurofen same time as Andrew and joined the Corporate Responsibility, and Scholl in Health.
Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee.
Strategy Elane Stock was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in We have three core strategic priorities: to accelerate organic September 2018 and became a member of the Remuneration growth on the top line, maintain or grow our margins, and Committee in November 2018. ensure we enhance our return on capital employed.
Further details on these appointments can be found in my RB 2.0 is the right platform to deliver future growth and report as Chair of the Nomination Committee from page 76. outperformance.
Our Hygiene Home business unit is now a Biographical details of our new appointments and Board focused household business with the management agility that members can be found on pages 58-61. we value so highly at RB.
In Health, we have a portfolio of global, market-leading consumer health brands.
The Health In addition, Andr Lacroix, Senior Independent Director, business unit is focused on reigniting growth by completing stepped down from the Board and retired from his post at theintegration of MJN and delivering an operating model that yearend.
He served on the Board from October 2008 and was works effectively across our five consumer healthcare market latterly Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the segments.
Delivering RB 2.0 will also create the optionality and Nomination Committee.
On behalf of the Board, I would like flexibility we require as we configure RB for the longer term.
to thank Andr for his significant contribution over many years.
He led the succession process in 2017 for RBs new Chairman Governance and as Chair of the Audit Committee he brought a rigorous Our strategy recognises that our long-term success requires and disciplined approach to risk management and assurance.
good stewardship of our business and fulfilment of our obligations to society.
From Board level down through Finally, Nicandro Durante was appointed as Senior Independent management, we continue to sharpen our focus on the issues Director and as a member of the Nomination Committee with of responsibility, safety, compliance, risk and sustainability.
We said last year that risk management will be increasingly CEO succession important as we move into health-related sectors.
Effective In January 2019, Rakesh Kapoor announced that he will be risk management involves the same disciplines as managing retiring as CEO by the end of 2019.
Under Rakeshs leadership, the overall business with the aim of giving our customers and RB has been transformed from a household cleaning business consumers the highest quality products.
We have worked to a world leader in consumer health and hygiene.
Rakesh has hardon reassessing all the components of our supply chain to been both the visionary and the architect behind this strategic ensure we have the right safeguards, controls and standards portfolio transformation since the mid-2000s.
He has also put in place to deliver the reliability and rigorous quality required.
in place RB 2.0 an organisation designed for sustainable growth and outperformance.
On behalf of the Board, I would We saw important and carefully planned leadership changes like to express our appreciation for his vision, passion and during 2018.
I had the honour of succeeding our former leadership over his long and distinguished tenure.
We are Chairman Adrian Bellamy, who retired following RBs Annual undertaking a formal and comprehensive process to appoint General Meeting in May 2018.
In addition, Ken Hydon and asuccessor, considering both internal and external candidates.
Judy Sprieser retired from the Board at the same time.
All three of these changes were announced in last years report and we AGM resolutions expressed at that time our appreciation and gratitude for their The AGM is on 9 May 2019.
In line with the three-year life exceptional long-standing service to RB.
A key aim in 2018 cycle, a new Remuneration Policy is being put forward to therefore was to make new appointments and we appointed abinding Shareholder vote at our AGM.
This and all the three highly talented Board members during the year.
In each resolutions that Shareholders will vote on are fully explained in case, we are pleased with the skills, competencies, knowledge the Notice of Meeting.
I look forward to meeting as many of and expertise we have added to the Board.
you as possible there, but if you have questions on this Annual Report or any other matter, and you cannot attend, please write to our Company Secretary and we will endeavour to address them.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 06 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Priorities Looking ahead, we remain committed to our objective of FOCUS ON SQRC growth and outperformance in the markets in which we operate and see that as the core of value creation.
In the Safety, Quality and Regulatory shortto medium term, we want to accelerate organic growth although over the long term we will consider further inorganic Compliance SQRC : in RBs DNA growth in a disciplined way, particularly in Health.
While we have made excellent progress in integrating MJN, there is more As part of the RB 2.0 reorganisation, we have established work to do to ensure we capture our targeted financial returns.
dedicated capabilities in quality and regulatory We are also committed to the projects to deliver the structural compliance to support both business units and further independence of the two business units by mid-2020.
strengthened our governance and capabilities at Group level through the creation of an integrated Safety, We have a uniquely strong culture at RB and a major priority Quality and Regulatory Compliance SQRC function.
for the Board and senior management is to continue attracting the skills we need to achieve our future growth objectives.
Our business cannot succeed without a solid foundation Wewill continue to motivate our people through the extensive in these areas.
We believe that an uncompromising career enhancement opportunities and attractive reward commitment to safety, quality and compliance will set structure that differentiates RB from its peers.
usapart in the minds of our consumers and delivers competitive advantage.
Finally, it goes without saying that we want to have effective governance and oversight as a Board.
An integral part of that In 2018 we completed three major programmes.
is to make sure we are truly a leader in sustainability, especially These focused on product review and remediation as in the use and recyclability of plastics, as well as in energy and well as on putting in place the processes, systems and water usage.
We are actively engaged in all these issues and organisational capabilities to better manage product continue to invest our time and effort in them.
changes and meet our chemical legislation requirements in a sustainable way.
Furthermore, we have an ongoing Conclusion programme that is implementing a Product Lifecycle I am grateful to my fellow Board members, to Rakesh Kapoor Management PLM approach, the first pilot for which and his executive team, and to all of RBs people for their was deployed in September 2018. hard work and loyalty in a year of great challenge and transformation.
Icontinue to be highly enthusiastic about Our work in SQRC is not just about remediation, the entire RB organisation and its potential to create value.
infrastructure or changing processes: more fundamentally The Company has demonstrated clearly its capacity for it is about helping to enshrine a culture of Responsibility extraordinary achievements.
RB 2.0 is underlining how the in the DNA of RB.
For example, on World Quality Day in Company can innovate in response to a changing competitive 2018, we launched our new Quality Vision and we are landscape and this is a real measure of the robustness further embedding this by hosting Quality Days at each of RBs strategic focus.
I believe the speed, flexibility and RB site.
This campaign makes quality the responsibility of motivation of this organisation is second to none and we each and every one of RBs 40,000 people.
are determined to stay at the leading edge.
I am confident we can look forward to a strong and successful future.
Our Chief SQRC Officer reports to the CEO and is accountable to our executive Compliance Management Chris Sinclair Committee CMC, the Boards Corporate Responsibility, Chairman Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee 18 March 2019 and, ultimately, the full Board.
These Committees track KPIs and the progress of our SQRC transformation and remediation programmes.
They take a direct interest in the capabilities and culture required to ensure we continue to build best-in-class operations.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 07
