STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 28 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued community and acting as a bridge between c2.5bn of turnover per annum.
We have COMMERCIAL & SYSTEMS government and industry.
announced the launch of a new Thames Valley division to further underpin our future growth.
GOLD AWARD FROM NEXTGENERATION LEGAL COMPLETIONS We continue to manage our resources For the third year running we achieved a Gold Award from NextGeneration, moving up a place into We delivered a new record of 5,913 legal third position in the UKs top 25 housebuilders.
completions including our Joint Venture in 2018, a efficiently as we grow, working closely with NextGeneration are an independent organisation 9% increase on 2017 levels 2017: 5,416. which benchmarks housebuilders on their Social housing accounted for 19% of legal sustainability performance.
Our high score of 80% is our suppliers and subcontractors to deliver completion volumes, in line with the previous year.
up 3% on last year and was calculated by assessing Apartments represented 21% of private legal the environmental and societal impact of our homes completions excluding our Joint Venture and 22% and developments.
increasing numbers of our quality homes.
This compares to 16% and 19% respectively in 2017.
This increase reflects the REVENUE increased contribution from Greater London, The Groups revenue continues to grow, reaching GROWING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY notably the first completions from our Colindale 1.92bn this year 2017: 1.66bn, an increase of 16%.
It is important that as we grow, we do so in a Gardens development in North London.
All the 195 The sale of homes accounted for all but 20m of responsible and sustainable manner.
During the completions from our Joint Venture development revenue, which was attributable to land sales in year John Tutte took a seat on the newly formed Morello in Croydon were apartments.
REVENUE M Council for Sustainable Business.
This council has OUTLETS been established to provide a sounding board on Revenue has increased by 122% since 2014 and 1,920 how businesses can help achieve the aims of the profit before tax by 186% in the same period.
The The Group had 124 active outlets on average Governments 25 Year Environment Plan.
It will focus Group has 14 homes operating divisions at present through 2018, which was in line with 2017 levels 1,660 on building positive momentum inside the business and these have further growth potential to deliver and we closed the year on 132 June 2017: 132.
5,718 5,319 4,716 4,022 3,597 14 15 16 17 18 KNIGHTS KEEP, STRETTON, STAFFORDSHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 30 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued Site openings in total were in line with forecast but Communication is key in any business and we have site closures were slightly higher than forecast due recently launched a new Redrow intranet Engage to better than expected sales rates.
which is mobile compatible and facilitates the use of video content to make communication more RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND dynamic and efficient.
PROCUREMENT During the year we undertook a major initiative to We look to bring social and economic benefit to better understand the health and wellbeing risks of communities by creating sustainable business our employees and subcontractors.
The results will opportunities with local enterprises.
92% of the help shape our strategy going forward.
goods and services we procure are local to our developments.
IMPROVING OUR SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES We are committed to procuring goods and We are continually striving to increase our services in a sustainable and responsible manner, effectiveness by improving our systems and working with our supply chain to deliver long-term processes to better support our business as it mutual benefit.
We continued our partnership with continues to grow, evolve and adapt to change.
Supply Chain Sustainability School SCSS, an initiative providing free learning and development We have a dedicated team of in-house Systems to our supply chain partners.
We are actively Accountants and IT specialists including a digital encouraging our subcontractors and suppliers to team, systems analysts, software developers, IT sign up and participate in the school.
During the security officers and help desk experts at our Head year, with the support of the SCSS, we carried out Office led by our Chief Information Officer.
The team a gap analysis of our procurement practice against work closely with Group and the operational the international sustainable procurement business to deliver improved management standard ISO 20400.
During the analysis session information and systems improvements.
Major an action plan was developed with responsibilities systems improvement projects are sponsored by a assigned across Redrow to continually improve member of the Executive Management Team.
An example of this is the Quality Review of The World Wildlife Foundation WWF have once Construction undertaken during the year sponsored again awarded us Three Trees status for the third by Matthew Pratt, a Regional Chief Executive.
assessment period in a row for our use of The team also supported the business to comply sustainably sourced timber.
At present our with the increasing levels of statutory reporting responsibly sourced and credibly certified timber requirements providing information for example for stands at 99.94%.
The accolade places Redrow Gender Pay reporting and Payments reporting among the top 40 companies in the country using introduced in the year.
Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified and other responsibly sourced timber and paper Also from a reporting perspective we produced, products.
completely in-house, our online half-yearly report for 2018.
Our digital, marketing and finance teams VALUING AND DEVELOPING PEOPLE AND worked together to enable Shareholders and other PARTNERS stakeholders to more easily access key information.
During the year we expanded our Human Resources We are building on this achievement with our Department to create a dedicated Engagement interactive online 2018 Annual Report.
The team will specifically focus on evolving our engagement with employees, suppliers and subcontractors and the wider community together with a focus on health and wellbeing.
We again undertook a major employee engagement survey in 2018.
This was delivered on our behalf by Employee Feedback Ltd with individual responses being completely confidential.
This survey achieved an extremely pleasing 90% response rate 2017: 88% and provided much useful feedback which we shared across our business via workshops in all our divisions and Group departments.
95% of respondents were proud to work for Redrow.
