Strategic report Chairmans statement Introduction I am pleased to report our 2018 The Group is again reporting a very annual results.
We achieved a record strongyear with record revenue of turnover for the second successive 611.5m 2017: 536.8m and record year of 611.5m 2017:536.8m adjusted profit before tax of 145.1m with revenue growth of 18% at 2017: 109.1m, an increase of 33%.
We are On a statutory basis, profit before tax also reporting a record adjusted rose by 33% to 155.2m.
profit before tax of 145.1m 2017:109.1m, an increase of 33%.
Our total shareholder return TSR during the year was 48%, ranking Renishaw 18th in the FTSE250.
During the year, I took the decision to hand over my Chief Executive responsibilities.
The Board and I were delighted to appoint Will Lee as Chief Executive from 1st February 2018.
Will has demonstrated significant leadership capabilities in his time at Renishaw having joined in 1996 and having been appointed to the Board as Sales and Marketing Director in 2016.
We have confidence that Will can inspire the next generation to build on Renishaws heritage.
The Board has prepared and agreed written statements of the key responsibilities of the Chief Executive and the Executive Chairman and they are available on our website at www.
Other Board changes Kath Durrant is stepping down from the Board with effect from 31st July 2018.
Kath, who was appointed to the Board in 2015 and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee, has made a considerable contribution to the Board and Renishaw and I would like to thank her and wish her well for the future with her senior executive role with Dublin based CRH plc.
We are pleased to announce the appointment of Catherine Glickman as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1st August 2018.
Catherine will be a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She is an independent nonexecutive director and chair of the remuneration committee at Marstons plc.
She is also a non-executive director at TheWorks.
co. uk plc where she is chair of its remuneration committee and a member of its audit and nomination committees.
Catherine brings extensive experience with her strong HR background, having previously been Group HR Director at Genus plc and Tesco plc, and will be a valuable addition to the Companys resources at Board level and particularly as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir David McMurtry, Executive Chairman 4 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In February 2018, we further strengthened our Executive Board with the appointment of Gareth Hankins, Director, Group Manufacturing Services Division, and Mark Moloney, Director and General Manager, Renishaw Ireland DAC.
Both have over thirty years experience with Renishaw focused on our significant investments in manufacturing processes to support increased volumes and developing capabilities for specific product lines.
Innovation Throughout Renishaws history, innovation has been at the heart of our business, from the generation of new technologies to new manufacturing processes.
As announced in January, having stepped down as Chief Executive, I will now focus on Group innovation and product strategy, supporting our engineering teams.
RenAM 500Q During the year, we continued to invest in developing future technologies, with total engineering costs of 83.6m before A key focus for innovation is additive manufacturing AM net capitalised development costs and the R&D tax credit, where in recent years we have filed the highest number amounting to 14% of total revenue.
During the year we launched the RenAM 500Q fourlaser system, which significantly Employees, diversity and corporate improves the productivity ofthe most commonly used governance machine platform size.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees for their professionalism and dedication during the year.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance to protect our business and its long-term success.
We note the newly published Corporate Governance Code 2018 and will consider how to address the changes that it has introduced in the coming year.
Further details are provided in the Directors corporate governance report on pages 44 to 54.
This culture is embedded in our Group Business Code and other policies.
We are also focused on gender diversity at all levels and published our Gender Pay Gap report on the Groups Outlook website see page 39 for further details.
We recognise this industry still has much work to do in this area and we will The Group is in a strong financial position and continues to continue to build upon our education outreach programmes.
invest in the development of new products and applications, along with targeted investment in production, and sales and Investor communications marketing facilities around the world.
We have experienced Our fifth investor day was held on 10th May 2018, for strong growth in 2018 and, whilst noting ongoing uncertainty existing and potential investors.
This event included surrounding Brexit and currency exchange rate volatility, presentations on Group strategy, business segments your directors remain confident in the long-term prospects and product lines as well as tours covering the Groups for the Group due to our innovative product base, extensive activities and an opportunity to meet the Board and senior global sales and marketing presence and relevance to management.
There was also a Q&A session with the high-value manufacturing.
At this early stage in the year, Board.
The event was very well attended, and provided weanticipate growth in both revenue and profit in the shareholders with another opportunity, in addition to the current financial year.
AGM, half-year and full-year webcasts, to learn more about Renishaws business and strategy.
Sir David McMurtry Dividend Executive Chairman A final dividend of 46.0p net per share will be paid on 26th July 2018 23rdOctober 2018, to shareholders on the register on 21stSeptember 2018, giving a total dividend of 60.0p for the year, an increase of 15.0% over last years 52.0p.
Note 24, Alternative performance measures, defines how adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted operating profit and revenue at constant exchange rates are calculated.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 5
