OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT EVEN BETTER TOGETHER Renewi provides an important service for the largest single contributor to our reported society by recycling to give new life to used loss for the year.
In addition, it has taken longer materials.
During the year our company than originally planned to achieve the required achieved many notable successes and performance from new facilities both in the UK also demonstrated the need to improve in and Canada.
The new management team in some areas.
Foremost in the latter, we were our Municipal division has made good progress deeply shocked by the deaths of two of our with these challenges in the year, including by colleagues while at work, one in Belgium deciding to exit loss making projects at both and one in Germany.
We took immediate Dumfries & Galloway and Westcott Park.
We action and are determined to raise safety continue to pursue operational and commercial standards above historic industry levels improvements across the other projects.
towards the best in any industry.
Better together COLIN Review of the year The results already demonstrate that the MATTHEWS Renewi was born a month before the start of two businesses are stronger as a result of the Chairman the year by merging the previous businesses merger, and we have a bold agenda for further of Shanks and Van Gansewinkel.
Integration improvement in safety, customer service, has progressed well, contributing to strong environmental performance and productivity.
financial results, ahead of our expectations The merged business is active at the heart of at the start of the year.
In particular, strong the growing circular economy.
results in the Netherlands and Belgium, home to the great majority of the activities of the The legacy businesses bring together strengths combined company, more than compensated in collection and in processing, in recycling for underperformance elsewhere.
We have of glass and electronic goods, and with the more to do in the coming year to serve treatment of organic and hazardous waste.
We customers better and more profitably through have expertise in logistics and in successfully the combination of the two companies.
deploying improvement programmes such as commercial effectiveness and continuous In common with others operating PFI private improvement.
finance initiative contracts, we suffered disappointing results in the UK, where We have designed an operating model commercial terms agreed in contracts signed that remains close to the customer, while six or more years ago proved uneconomic leveraging strong common platforms and today.
Recognising future losses associated processes.
The Board therefore believes that with these contracts for the next 22 years was the combined Group can deliver sustained For investors: www.
com 6 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 THE FULLY INTEGRATED RENEWI BUSINESS HAS A COMPELLING OFFERING FOR CUSTOMERS, COMBINING LOCAL SERVICE, INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE AND AN UNRIVALLED BREADTH OF PRODUCTS Summary and outlook organic growth, in addition to the merger cost we serve in terms of nationality, experience in We believe in an exciting future for Renewi.
The business is well positioned at the heart of the emerging circular economy, a market Corporate Governance On 1 September 2017 Luc Sterck was whose growth is driven by EU and national The Board is committed to the highest appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive government legislation.
The fully integrated standards of corporate governance.
Luc is a Belgian national with Renewi business has a compelling offering of our processes and approach, including extensive experience in the waste industry, for customers, combining local service, those relating to the role and effectiveness including serving as Chief Executive of Indaver, international expertise and an unrivalled of the Board, and compliance with the the leading Belgian waste management breadth of products.
The full deployment of UK Governance Code, are set out in the company.
On 1 April 2018 Jolande Sap was commercial effectiveness and continuous Governance section on pages 80 to 111. appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive improvement programmes will boost Director.
Jolande has been a member of competitiveness and drive enhanced margins.
The Board and its committees have been parliament in the Netherlands representing The delivery of the committed cost synergies is diligent during the year to learn from the the Green Party, as well as holding a wide also expected to drive strong earnings growth latest developments in corporate governance range of roles in the corporate and notand cash generation.
and to adopt management and governance for-profit environments.
She brings highly arrangements adapted to the greater scale of relevant expertise in sustainability, the circular On behalf of the Board, I thank all of our our business.
In particular, we have focused economy and emerging regulatory trends.
Renewi employees for their commitment on: the integration of the two businesses: the over the past year of change.
I also thank our recruitment and promotion of leaders, both in EPS and dividend customers and shareholders for their ongoing key operational roles and also to strengthen Reported underlying basic earnings per share support for the Board and the management our corporate functions: the building of a new for the year grew by 30% at reported currency team as we deliver the benefits of our control and reporting framework: and risk to 4.8 pence 2017: 3.7 pence.
to confirm that we will be recommending an unchanged final dividend of 2.1 pence per We undertook an externally facilitated share, payable on 27 July 2018 to shareholders review of the Board during the year and were on the register on 29 June 2018.
The Board encouraged by validation of our effectiveness intends to maintain this level of dividend and by constructive suggestions in line with through the integration period until the our commitment to continuous improvement.
dividend is back within the range of 2.0 to 2.5 Colin Matthews times cover.
Once this is the case a progressive Chairman Board changes dividend policy can be resumed.
The Board has made progress in the year, now better reflecting the diversity of the customers For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 7
