Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 3 Chairmans statement The Board We continue to refresh the Board.
Ben van der Veer will stand down from the board after nine years service.
He was replaced as Chairman of the Audit Committee, a position he had held since 2010, by Adrian Hennah.
Adrian is Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser, and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Smith & Nephew.
Andrew Sukawaty will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director of RELX, subject to shareholder approval, with effect after the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Andrew has had a 30 year career in the telecoms industry.
He is Chairman of Inmarsat and was a Non-Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director of Sky between 2013 and 2018.
I would like to thank Ben for his advice over many years and am delighted that Andrew will be joining RELX.
Parent company structure In September 2018, we completed the simplification of the companys corporate structure by moving from a dual to a single Sir Anthony Habgood Chairman parent structure.
In June, shareholders of both parent companies, RELX PLC and RELX NV, voted 99.9% in favour of the measures which were cost and profit neutral on an ongoing basis and did RELX continued its positive not impact the economic interest of any shareholder.
RELX NV shareholders received one new RELX PLC share in exchange for development in 2018.
We simplified each RELX NV share, and can continue to trade their new shares on Euronext Amsterdam, priced in euros.
They are also entitled our corporate structure into a to receive dividend payments in euros.
RELX NV ADRs were converted one-for-one to RELX PLC ADRs.
Shares in the single single parent company, removing parent company are now listed in London, Amsterdam and New York, and it was confirmed in December that RELX will have a full complexity and increasing weighting in the AEX index in addition to the FTSE 100.
This latest change was a natural step for RELX, removing transparency for shareholders.
In 2015, the company simplified its structure by combining all assets below the two Shares in the single parent parent companies into a single new group entity and eliminated parent company cross-shareholdings.
We also increased share company have a full weighting price transparency by moving all share listings to an equalisation ratio of one to one.
in the FTSE 100 and AEX indices.
Corporate responsibility RELX continued to execute its strategy aimed at achieving more We take our commitment to human rights seriously as evidenced predictable revenues, a higher growth profile and improving by our Modern Slavery Act Statement, which outlines how we returns.
As a result, underlying revenue growth was again 4%.
work to avoid slavery and trafficking in our direct employment Underlying adjusted operating profits grew 6%, as we continued and in our supply chain.
In the year, we held RELX Rule of Law to grow revenues ahead of costs.
Adjusted earnings per share Cafs in the US, Europe and Asia to bring together the legal in constant currencies grew 7% and in sterling 6% to 84.7p 80.2p.
community, corporate peers, government representatives and Reported earnings per share were 71.9p 81.6p.
non-governmental organisations to share information on going beyond legal minimums to advance the rule of law.
Dividends We are proposing a full year dividend increase of 7% to 42.1p.
We also created Access to Justice Law360, free content to The long-term dividend policy is unchanged.
support the legal community, including legal aid organisations, in helping citizens gain equal treatment within civil and criminal Balance sheet justice systems.
As a United Nations Global Compact LEAD Net debt, including leases as per IFRS 16, was 6.2bn at 31 company, we joined the action platform, Peace, Justice & Strong December 2018, compared with 5.0bn last year.
Net debt EBITDA Institutions, ensuring business supports good governance and including pensions and leases was 2.4x, compared with 2.2x in legal frameworks.
Capital expenditure represented 5% of revenues.
Another critical priority for RELX is data privacy and security and Share buybacks in 2018 we expanded security incident response preparedness In 2018, we deployed 700m on share buybacks.
In 2019, we intend through technology, awareness training and simulations.
By 20 February, 100m of this years total had already been completed, leaving a further 500m to be Anthony Habgood deployed during the year.
