56 of City Link, Initial Facilities and the formation of the joint venture with Haniel.
We have made good advances in North America, building a $1.2bn revenue business more than three times the size it was in 2008, and grown our business significantly in Asia and emerging markets, entering more than a dozen new countries for the first time.
This has been the result of clarity, focus and discipline in execution against our growth strategy.
Our executive team, particularly under Andy and Jeremy, have done a very good job in delivering this growth while keeping the essence of the culture of Rentokil Initial intact.
It Q&A is becoming hard now to recall that Pest Control was only the fourth biggest business we had in 2008 and that the Group was issuing profit JOHN McADAM warnings, while over the last five years we have delivered double-digit Chairman profit growth and dividend increases, and built the business into a FTSE 100 innovator and powerhouse across the world that leads the industry in its sectors.
It has been a pleasure and privilege to have 2018 has been another successful year, led a Board that has supported these achievements.
consolidating and extending the delivery Q.
What are the Companys most satisfying achievements of strong performance against our during your time on the Board?
Our senior management team have made significant progress growthstrategy.
under Andys leadership, building on the hard restructuring work and Q.
What have been the key areas of focus for you foundations laid during the time of our former Chief Executive Alan Brown.
It is very satisfying to see the value that has been created for our andtheBoard during 2018?
When Andy, Alan and I were appointed to the Board in A.
As well as oversight of our successful M&A strategy we have, as May 2008 the share price was sitting at about 82p and it has certainly usual, spent a lot of time this year considering performance against our been pleasing to see Rentokil Initial restored to its rightful position in the strategy with in-depth reviews of our operational businesses.
We have FTSE 100 in March 2017, after an absence of eight years, and continuing also spent time assessing how best to evolve our sector strategy and to make progress.
From a personal point of view, I have also found it innovation pipeline, to drive future outperformance.
We took an in-depth particularly pleasing to see the growth we have achieved in key markets look at the opportunities available to us over the next three years at our both for now in North America, and also strong positions in those that strategy away day in November.
As a board we have also spent time will generate growth in the medium and longer-term future of the this year considering the new corporate governance code and reporting business, such as India and Latin America.
requirements in preparation for next year.
Finally, we have followed our Employer of Choice agenda closely, and assessed progress on Within the boardroom itself, the diversity of our Board has improved retention initiatives, talent development and succession plans for our considerably over this time and I am very pleased that we are now meeting key executive management as well as the Board, including my own role.
both the targets set for women on boards by the Hampton-Alexander Review and for ethnic diversity on boards by the Parker Report.
You have announced that you intend to step down asChairman at the next AGM.
What do you think will be the biggest challenges is the right time to leave?
A. I have been on the Board for over 10 years and whilst I look back A.
The global economic environment continues to be uncertain, and with some satisfaction at the Companys achievements over that period we know that the pace of change in our markets will only accelerate and the performance of the Board under my chairmanship, it does with developments in digital and connected devices representing now feel an appropriate time to hand over the reins to someone new, both opportunity and competitive threat to our leadership positions.
quite apart from wishing to reflect best corporate governance practice.
We need to maintain an ever more demanding focus on health, safety My main focus now is to make sure that when I do leave that there is and the environment to avoid complacency in the world-class safety a smooth handover.
performance levels we are now achieving, and to continue to reduce our carbon footprint.
Delivering on the opportunity that still lies ahead for Q.
What are the succession plans for your role?
Rentokil Initial will not be easy but I believe that many of the key building A. I am delighted that Richard Solomons will be joining the Board on 1 March 2019 as a Non-Executive Director, allowing a period of handover before he becomes Chairman from 8 May 2019, subject to shareholder approval.
He brings great operational and strategic experience from running a highly successful global business, gaining a deep understanding of service-led organisations, North America and the digital agenda as Chief Executive of InterContinental Hotels Group.
He is currently Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee at Aston Martin Lagonda, and I wish him every success in the role.
Richard Burrows, our Senior Independent Director, has led the Chairman succession plan and we have included a separate section in our Nomination Committee Report this year to allow him to update our shareholders on the rigorous succession process that has been undertaken.
I would like to express my thanks to Richard for staying onto complete the process in exemplary fashion.
Looking back, what do you believe is the biggest change in the Company since you joined as Chairman in 2008?
A. Rentokil Initial has always had key strengths such as the dedication of its employees and its focus on delivery of services and international expansion, but the Group has been significantly developed from its position in 2008.
The portfolio of businesses has been streamlined and focused on Pest Control and Hygiene, with, for example, the sale Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 Q&A with John McAdam, Chairman blocks and attributes for success are already in place.
We have the besttrained and motivated colleagues, a seasoned and relentlessly focused Highlights of 2018 management team, key capabilities such as M&A execution, technical expertise and operational discipline, and a pipeline of innovation and Progress on our Employer of Choice agenda, global footprint second to none.
I am therefore confident that my successor includingimprovement on diversity, retention as Chairman and my supportive colleagues on the Board will find the andsuccession planning business is very well placed to meet the challenges that lie ahead.
Do you foresee any other significant Board changes?
Performance in Europe with the return to profitable growth in France and the Boards visit to Italy A.
After adding three new Board colleagues between the middle of 2017 and the start of 2018, 2018 has been a more stable year with no further Progress on execution of digital and innovation changes being made to the Board.
However, our Senior Independent agenda, combined with delivery of successful Director, Richard Burrows, will be stepping down after our AGM in May dataprivacy GDPR and IT security enhancements 2019 as he has also served as a Director for more than nine years.
I am very pleased to say that John Pettigrew has agreed to become our new Offsetting 100% of carbon emissions through Senior Independent Director and Angela Seymour-Jackson will succeed partnership with Cool Earth Richard as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Other than that, we currently have no further plans for Board changes in 2019.
Agreement for a defined benefit pension scheme Q.
What are the Boards key priorities as we go into 2019?
buy-in with Pension Insurance Corporation PIC A.
In terms of the Board itself, clearly the main priority over the next Preparation for new UK Corporate Governance Code few months is to achieve a smooth transition to the new Chairman as well as the Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair roles.
Engagement of the new appointees with investors, proxy agencies and other stakeholders through this transition period will be key.
In terms of the oversight of the Group and the business itself, our Areas of focus for 2019 priorities will be monitoring management performance against the demanding objectives that have been set, particularly in relation to the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and North America business: enhancing margin delivery across Pest Control Remuneration Committee Chair succession and Hygiene more broadly: and ensuring that our M&A growth plans continue to deliver value for the business and for shareholders.
How are you preparing for the new workforce Productivity and margin delivery initiatives engagement requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code?
The Board has been considering its approach for some time.
Much is Maintaining effective engagement with investors already done within Rentokil Initial to understand and drive improvements in workforce engagement, and it has been a perennial management Sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives focus as you would expect in a high-performing global services business.
We reviewed the Code provisions carefully, to assess what would be the most meaningful for Rentokil Initial, as well as generating the most telling insights for the Board.
We decided, at least initially, not to adopt one of the new Codes specific recommendations but instead to build on and enhance our current workforce engagement practices across the global Group.
We will report on that basis, and no doubt continue to refine our arrangements during the course of 2019.
As a Board we have also been looking at the most appropriate ways for the Board itself to engage more directly with colleagues and other stakeholders and we look forward to reporting on this in next years Annual Report.
How would you define Rentokil Initials culture andhowhas it changed since 2008?
A. Rentokil Initials culture is down to earth, hardworking and respectful, and much of this was already the case in 2008.
What has changed is the rigour in measuring, incentivising and managing the business in line with the attributes that have been at the core of the Groups culture and success for more than 90 years.
The Employer of Choice agenda takes this forward, with benefits visible in both our internal and external measures such as our top-rated Glassdoor scores.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our shareholders for theirsupport for the Company and the Board and I look forward to The Group is well placed to continue seeing the business continue to prosper in the years ahead.
to lead and shape themarkets in which it operates and deliver superior returns for stakeholders.
JOHN McADAM JOHN McADAM Chairman Chairman 27 February 2019 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
