Chairmans statement This has been a pivotal year for the Group, withprogress on our strategic initiatives andatransformational acquisition that accelerates our momentum.
2018 was a pivotal year for the Group.
The acquisition The acquisition of Wagamama of Wagamama and the development of our Pubs and Concessions businesses have accelerated our progress and the development of our into growth sectors and we continue to make improvements to the customer proposition and our execution across our Pubs and Concessions Leisure business.
businesses have accelerated Total revenues were up 1% to 686m, with like-for-like sales our progress into growth for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 down 2%, representing an improvement on the decline in 2017.
group delivered like-for-like sales growth since the World Cup, with our Pubs business continuing to consistently trade ahead of the pub restaurant sector and our Concessions business Debbie Hewitt trading strongly.
Our Leisure business exhibited improved Chairman like-for-like sales momentum through 2018.
We opened a record 21 new pubs inclusive of acquisitions and a record 21 new concessions units during the year.
1 Adjusted profit before tax was down 8.1% to 53.2m and 1 Adjusted EPS was down 11.9% to 14.7p per share.
Statutory 3 profit before tax was 13.9m 2017 : 28.2m including 3 exceptional charges of 39.2m 2017 : 29.7m which are explained further in the Financial review section.
The acquisition of Wagamama formally completed on 24 December 2018.
The business has a differentiated, high growth, pan-Asian proposition which has significantly and consistently outperformed its core UK market.
It is well aligned to the key structural trends in our sector and addresses customer demand for speed of service, delivery and healthy options.
We continue to believe that the acquisition will be transformative for the Group, allowing us to accelerate Wagamamas UK roll-out with selected TRG site conversions, expand the UK concessions presence leveraging our existing relationships, address delivery opportunities via restaurants and delivery kitchens, pilot pan-Asian cuisine food-to-go offerings, explore international growth options and deliver at least 22m of synergies.
The enlarged Group now derives c. 70% of outlet EBITDA on a full-year 2018 pro-forma basis from high growth segments Wagamama, Concessions and Pubs and is well equipped to address compelling growth avenues.
04 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board is confident that we have a robust plan and the focus and rigour to deliver value for shareholders.
We were appreciative of the engagement of all of our investors Although a search had commenced to recruit an additional during the process of acquiring Wagamama and the support Non-Executive Director with digital credentials during 2019, provided for the rights issue that was undertaken to raise the Board decided that it was sensible to postpone this search 315m in order to fund the acquisition.
until such time as the new CEO is recruited.
Simon Cloke has agreed to remain on the Board as a non-executive Director The Group has continued to face external cost pressures for a period of up to a year, to ensure continuity whilst the new throughout 2018, including increases in the national living CEO is recruited.
The Board will then re-commence its search wage and national minimum wage, the apprenticeship levy, to recruit an additional non-executive Director with technology the revaluation of business rates, higher energy taxes and and digital credentials, and at that point Simon Cloke will step increased purchasing costs due to the combined effects of down from the Board.
a devalued pound and commodity inflation.
As we seek to mitigate these cost pressures, our initiatives to improve the We have also added to the strength of the senior leadership effectiveness of our labour scheduling and to exploit new team, with the appointment of Lisa Hillier as Chief People technologies are on track and continue to drive efficiencies.
Officer, joining us from Just Eat plc.
On 14 February 2019, we announced that Andy McCue, CEO, The business continues to generate strong free cash flow, with 3 had informed the Board of his decision to leave the Company 59.6m in 2018 2017 : 85.1m.
As announced at the time due to extenuating personal circumstances.
Whilst the Board of the acquisition, we will adopt a policy of paying a dividend 1 is clearly disappointed that Andy will not be able to provide covered two times by adjusted profit after tax, with this policy the long-term leadership for the business, we recognise that reflected in the final dividend that the Board has proposed his decision to step down is the right one for him and his for 2018 of 1.47 pence per share.
The total dividend for the family.
The Board anticipates that Andy will remain in position year is, therefore, 8.27 pence per share.
The Board believes while his successor is being recruited.
An extensive search that this funding structure and dividend policy reflects an is well underway to recruit the new CEO.
An announcement appropriate balance between delivering shareholder returns, regarding the appointment will be made in due course.
enabling the Company to invest in further growth and enabling the Company to achieve an appropriate deleveraging profile.
Other Board changes during the year included the resignation of Paul May as Non-Executive Director in October The enlarged Group now employs over 22,000 people and 2018 and the appointment of Allan Leighton, who joined as a they are the lifeblood of our business.
The Board would like Non-Executive Director in December 2018, at the completion to record our thanks and appreciation for their hard work of the Wagamama transaction.
Allan is currently Chairman of and commitment.
Co-operative Group Limited and Entertainment One Limited, among others, and has previously been Chief Executive This has been a pivotal year for the Group, with progress on Officer of ASDA Group Limited and Pandora A S and our strategic initiatives, improved like-for-like sales momentum Chairman of Pace plc and Royal Mail.
He knows the in our Leisure business, growth in our Pubs and Concessions Wagamama team well and has extensive experience of business, and a transformational acquisition that accelerates managing public and private companies in the retail and our momentum in growth segments.
We continue to benefit hospitality sectors and a wealth of experience in growing from strong cash generation and a healthy balance sheet.
The Board is confident that we have a robust plan and the focus and rigour to deliver value for shareholders in what is Simon Cloke, non-executive Director, will step down as Senior a challenging consumer environment.
Independent Director at the AGM in May 2019 and will be replaced as Senior Independent Director by Allan Leighton.
Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman 15 March 2019 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 05
