Strategic report | Chairmans statement Scott Forbes Chairman I am pleased to present Rightmove plcs results for the year Highlighting one example that underscores Rightmoves ended 31 December 2018. vision and ethos, an increased propensity to rent in the UK is leading the industry to increase its focus on the lettings Having completed our thirteenth year as a listed company, market.
This industry shift increases the demand for digital our founding principles remain the same despite the pace tools focused on improving the lettings experience for a of innovation and technological change.
large addressable market of renters, landlords and estate We remain easy to use and free to home hunters.
After thoughtful research and development online brand entertains, informs and helps a consistently throughout 2018, Rightmove launched a Tenant Passport growing and industry leading audience across every local proposition designed to improve the reliability and housing market in Great Britain.
completeness of information required to rent a home: thereby reducing the administrative burden and wasted We are advocates for the professional estate agency and time for all involved in the process.
new home developer sectors: which the public rely on for local knowledge and quality service.
Our value proposition is The Tenant Passport is the first in a number of innovations clear as in addition to delivering an unrivalled and relevant serving the lettings market and one of many useful digital audience every year, crucially, we invest and provide digital tools in our product pipeline that serve both home hunters innovations to our customers that enable them to compete and housing professionals.
We look forward to many more for transactions and operate more efficiently.
years of providing increasing value to these audiences as well as our supportive shareholders.
As the marketplace for UK property, our customers are Financial results assured that our aim is to support them.
Our business model The strength of our business model and core value is robust because the majority of our revenue comes from proposition once again underpins a healthy set of financial the subscriptions our customers pay to be part of that 1 results in 2018.
Underlying operating profit was up 10% to marketplace.
As such, we are not directly linked to housing 203.3m 2017: 184.4m and operating profit was up 11% transaction volumes and neither participate in the upside at 198.6m 2017: 178.3m driven by revenue growth of nor downside of all but the most extreme events of the 10% to 267.8m 2017: 243.3m and a disciplined approach cyclical home sales market.
Underlying basic earnings per share and Our ambition to remain a sustainable growth company basic earnings per share were up 12% and 13% respectively for the benefit of all stakeholders is undeterred as we 3 3 at 18.3p 2017: 16.3p and 17.8p 2017: 15.7p, even continually evolve our value proposition for the benefit of greater than the percentage increase in profits and in part our customers, consumers and shareholders.
Our model as a result of 25.0m shares bought back during the year at a and approach has historically worked well and we believe cost of 113.5m as part of our policy of returning free cash itwill continue to underpin our future success.
1 Before share-based payments charge of 4.3m 2017: 4.9m and NI charge 3 2017 comparatives have been restated for ease of comparability to reflect of 0.4m 2017: 1.2m on share-based incentives.
the 10:1 share subdivision effective 31 August 2018.
2 Before share-based payments charge of 4.3m 2017: 4.9m and NI charge of 4 Cash generated from operating activities of 200.4m compared to operating 0.4m 2017: 1.2m on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
profit as reported in the profit or loss of 198.6m.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Returns to shareholders and dividend address concerns about the Board commitments of both Our commitment to return excess cash promptly to myself and Peter.
Following these conversations, I believe that investors continues to be as strong as ever and in 2018 we have consensus support for an orderly succession plan that we returned a further 168.5m 2017: 140.4m to contemplates the further development of Chair candidates on shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, the Board and the recruitment of up to two non-executives bringing our total cash returned to shareholders, as a with appropriate profiles, prior to the May 2020 AGM, on which listed company to over 1bn.
Operating date I intend to resign from the Board as Chairman.
4 cash conversion was again very strong and remains Peter Williams, after more than five years of exemplary Board in excess of 100% of operating profit.
service, will not stand for re-election at the May 2019 AGM, The Board increased the interim dividend to 2.5p to make room for a potential Chair candidate with the ability 3 H1 2017: 2.2p per ordinary share, which was paid on to serve as Board Chair for a longer tenure.
We are confident in our ability to deliver Rojas will be appointed as Senior Independent Director in sustainable returns to shareholders and consistent with our May 2019 and has agreed to oversee the committee process policy of increasing the total dividend for the year broadly of appointing a new Chair prior to the 2020 AGM.
Lorna in line with earnings per share, the Board recommends a Tilbian will chair the Remuneration Committee following an 3 final dividend of 4.0p 2017: 3.6p per ordinary share.
understudy year of active committee participation.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 6.5p Id like to personally thank Peter for his support and sage 3 2017: 5.8p, an increase of 12%.
The final dividend, advice to me as Senior Independent Director as well as his subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 31 May 2019 valuable contributions to the Rightmove Board and all to all shareholders on the register on 3 May 2019. committees over the past five years.
Corporate governance Looking forward One of the Boards responsibilities is to ensure that the Once again, the Board and I are grateful for the confidence Group applies good governance to facilitate effective and support of all our customers and for the talent and management of a high growth business.
As the Companys dedication of our employees.
We are clear that our goal is Chairman I am pleased to note that the Group is continuing to continue to work together to maintain Rightmoves to foster an environment of entrepreneurial leadership and position as the essential marketplace for home hunters innovation in a framework of responsible governance and and for property advertisers to reach by far the widest risk management as set out in the Corporate Governance possible audience.
Board changes Lorna Tilbian was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 February 2018, bringing with her a wealth of capital markets experience, following a distinguished career in the Scott Forbes media sector.
Lornas appointment is also noteworthy in Chairman that our Board now has 50 50 gender representation and we have been prominently recognised for our focus on diversity within the Hampton-Alexander FTSE 100 rankings.
At the AGM in May 2018, a significant minority of votes were received against the re-election of myself as Chairman and Peter Williams, our Senior Independent Director.
During the autumn I actively consulted with a majority of shareholders in relation to our plans for orderly Board succession and to Rightmove plc annual report 2018 3
