252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 3 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement Lord Rothschild, OM GBE 2018 was the most difficult and treacherous year for In the current year stock markets have, so far, shown investors since 2008, with negative returns in all major significant gains.
We remain however cautious about asset classes.
In this context, we are pleased to be able future prospects for markets, concerned over the to report that we delivered on our primary long-term aim accumulation of downside risks.
Global growth is of preserving shareholders capital, with an increase of declining, with the IMF having further reduced its 0.8% in your Companys net asset value per share forecasts.
The weakest Chinese GDP growth in nearly including dividends.
We were able to deliver this return three decades is clearly having an impact on other in part by having reduced quoted equity exposure in regions, while German manufacturing output has advance of a fourth quarter which saw global equity contracted for the first time in four years.
Our private investment portfolio recent retail figures in the US lead one to believe that the made positive returns, as did credit and bonds.
Our economy will find it difficult to repeat last years fiscalinvestments in Asia, however, suffered, in particular fuelled results.
Against this weakening backdrop, China, whose stock market fell by some 25% during the geopolitical risks have not subsided.
We are surely course of the year.
Nevertheless, we remain committed witnessing the worst political situation in the United to the region believing in its future prospects.
Kingdom since the Suez crisis, while social unrest and populism in a number of European countries cloud the In our Half-Yearly Report last year, I commented that, future.
notwithstanding broad-based economic growth and low unemployment, it was not an appropriate time to add to The question is whether current stock market valuations risk.
The dangers of holding assets inflated by low discount these concerns and take into account the interest rates and quantitative easing are now visible to likelihood that corporate profits are on the way down, all.
Throughout the year therefore we managed our asset undermined by reduced demand, increased wages, and allocation to keep net quoted exposure towards the lower higher input costs due to tariffs.
We therefore anticipate levels of our historical ranges with higher levels of cash a continuation of heightened market volatility.
circumstances, capital preservation will remain as high a priority as any in the management of your Companys Timely additions to government bonds and gold interest.
benefitted from flight to safety flows towards the end of the year.
The absolute return and credit portfolio held its While we remain cautious and selective, we continue to ground, even with the downdraft in credit markets.
Our see specific opportunities across equity and debt currency allocations profited from the rally in the US markets, and seek to ensure that new investments dollar.
provide a margin of safety in terms of valuation.
On private investments we seek to structure investments Our private investments contributed significantly to with an emphasis on downside protection.
We are performance, both directly and through third-party confident that our approach under current conditions will managers.
For example, in 2016 we made an initial help in building the foundation for longer-term growth.
investment alongside BDT Capital Partners into Acorn a holding company for global coffee businesses and we 018 was the most difficult and treacherous increased our investment in mid-2018 to support the 2year for investors since 2008, with negative merger of its Keurig business with Dr Pepper.
The merger was well received by the market and the returns in all major asset classes.
In this valuation of our interest has increased accordingly.
In context, we are pleased to be able to report April 2018 we invested in Coupang, the South Korean that we delivered on our primary long-term online consumer business.
Since then the company has aim of preserving shareholders capital, with benefitted from a sizeable new investment from Softbank an increase of 0.8% in your Companys net at a significant uplift to our earlier investment.
Our thirdparty managers, in particular ICONIQ and Thrive, made a asset value per share including dividends.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 3 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Dividend putting him forward for re-election as a non-independent We are intending to pay a dividend of 34 pence per share Director at the AGM.
We are delighted that Philippe in 2019, an increase of just over 3% above the previous Costeletos has agreed to act as SID, and will take over year.
This will be paid in two equal instalments of from Michael at the AGM.
17 pence per share, in April and October.
We have an impressive senior team at your Company's Governance wholly-owned manager, J. Rothschild Capital I am delighted to announce two new non-executive Management Limited JRCM.
Led by Francesco Directors who will join the Board at the AGM, subject to Goedhuis CEO and Ron Tabbouche CIO, JRCM has shareholder approval Maggie Fanari and Sir James been instrumental in steering our business through some Leigh-Pemberton.
Maggie is the Director of Relationship of the most difficult times in recent market history.
Ably Investing in London for Ontario Teachers Pension Plan, supported by Andrew Jones CFO and Jonathan one of Canada's largest pension plans and a major global Kestenbaum COO, I believe the way forward for JRCM investor.
James was CEO of Credit Suisse UK, before is in good hands and secure.
leaving to chair UK Financial Investments.
He also served as a non-executive Director here, from 2004 until 2013.
I believe James and Maggie will be excellent additions to our Board.
In addition, we have been considering the important role Rothschild of Senior Independent Director SID.
Michael Marks has 4 March 2019 served on the Board for more than nine years, and under the rules as they are now, it is time for him to relinquish the role.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of shareholders and the Board, to express my gratitude and appreciation for his wise counsel as SID: we will be 4 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc
