Strategic report Chairmans statement Our business We have published our first report under theTaskForce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD recommendations.
Following in 2018 the sale of our coal assets, Rio Tinto is unique among the major diversified miners in having no fossil fuel production.
At the end of the year, more than 70% of the electricity used across our business came from renewable sources, and climate change considerations are fully integrated into our operational and strategic decision-making.
We have developed greenhouse gas GHG abatement curves and assessed the climate change resilience of all our major operating assets and core infrastructure.
We are committed to substantially decarbonising our business by 2050, in accordance with our endorsement of theParis Agreement.
However, while many GHG-abatement projects lie within our control, others depend upon governments around the world developing a Rio Tinto has a clear purpose: as pioneers Shareholder returns regulatory framework for the taxation and pricing inmetals and mining, we produce materials The combination of strong cash flow from of carbon that will create thecertainty businesses essential for human progress.
And by doing operations and the proceeds from asset disposals need to invest in new technology and reduce their soefficiently and effectively, we aim to deliver enabled us to further strengthen our balance carbon footprint.
Wewill develop new mediumsuperior returns to our shareholders while sheet, with net debt $4.1 billion lower than 2017. term targets forGHG reduction before our current safeguarding the environment and meeting We also announced record cash returns to targets expirein 2020.
But, longer term, the ourobligations to wider society.
This comprises a challenge ofclimate change will only be addressed full-year dividend of $5.3 billion 307 cents per throughactive engagement and collective Performance share, the $1.0 billion share buy-back we actionby business, civil society, consumers During 2018, we delivered underlying earnings announced last August from operational cash andespecially governments.
Despite some flowand $7.2 billion of supplementary cash volatility, commodity prices remained broadly returns frompost-tax divestment proceeds, The board and stakeholder engagement supportive during the year, but growth in our including a $4.0 billion special dividend and 2018 was a year of change for the board.
Jan du end-markets was relatively subdued and $3.2billion of sharebuy-backs.
Plessis retired in March, after successfully leading inflationary pressures increased in some of our the company as chairman for nearly nine years.
A continuing focus on mine-toSocial and economic contribution Paul Tellier also retired in May and Chris Lynch market productivity and value over volume was Rio Tinto continues to make a significant economic retired as chief financial officer in September.
therefore essential to defend the Groups EBITDA and social contribution in the countrieswhere it Our thanks go toall three for their outstanding margin of 42%, compared with 44% in 2017. operates.
During 2018, we paid $3.6 billion in service to the Group.
Jakob Stausholm replaced corporate taxes, and made a total economic Chris as chieffinancial officer, and we were pleased Portfolio contribution, including payments to employees and to welcome Moya Greene and Simon McKeon as We continue to invest in value-creative growth.
As part of our non-executive directors.
Jakob brings extensive The Amrun bauxite project in Queensland, commitment to building robust, long-term experience of finance, natural resources and Australia was completed ahead of schedule and partnerships, we have enhanced transparency and capital-intensive, cyclical industries.
In November, we approved the disclosure in a number of areas of importance to our andSimon bring valuable business expertise anda development of the $2.6 billion Koodaideri iron stakeholders, including human rights, membership deep knowledge of Canada and Australia, ore project in the Pilbara.
The world-class Oyu of industry associations and beneficial ownership.
respectively the two countries that host our Tolgoi copper project in Mongolia has progressed, largest operations.
albeit with challenges which further impact the Sustainability forecasted ramp-up to sustainable production at During 2018, the board revised and updated the During the year, board members participated intwo this complex underground project.
Climate change environmental, social and governance ESG represents perhaps the greatest long-term threat investor seminars, in London and Sydney, as well as We also continued to reshape our portfolio.
to our business and we are determined to be two civil society roundtables in Melbourne and Wesold the Hail Creek and Kestrel mines partofthe solution, not part of the problem.
We have already responded to a and the Valeria and Winchester South coal Ouraluminium and copper product groups, in number of suggestions made at these meetings.
development projects for combined sale proceeds particular, have a vital role to play in supplying The Sustainability Committee and other board of $4.15 billion, pre tax.
We also completed the essential materials for the transition to a lowmembers also visited Energy Resources of Australia, sale of our investment in Grasberg for total carbon economy.
in the Northern Territory, to review closure planning proceeds of$3.5 billion and disposed of our and environmental rehabilitation with the aluminium smelter at Dunkerque for headline management team andtomeet Traditional Owners.
com Strategic report We aim to deliver superior returnsto our shareholders whilesafeguarding the environment andmeeting our obligations towidersociety.
In November, we held our first Employee AGM People Full-year ordinary dividend inBrisbane, where board members discussed During my first year as chairman, I have visited Five-year progress US cents per share ourpurpose, strategy, culture and values, and Rio Tinto operations in Australia, Canada and the 215 2014 answered questions on a wide range of topics.
My lasting impression of these visits is the Weplan to continue our active programme professionalism, commitment and pride of the 2015 215 ofstakeholder engagement in 2019.
Rio Tinto people whom I have met.
On behalf of 2016 170 the board, I would like to thank and congratulate Culture and values J-S, the executive team, and all of our colleagues 2017 290 Rio Tintos core values are safety, teamwork, around the world for a year of significant 2018 307 respect, integrity and excellence.
That safety must progressand achievement.
always be our top priority was reinforced by the tragic deaths of three colleagues during 2018.
Outlook Final dividend Despite these set backs, we remain absolutely As we enter 2019, we face considerable US cents per share committed to making zero fatalities a reality.
geopolitical uncertainties, particularly in relation to trade, and can expect a year of volatile In 2016, the Group self-reported its concerns about commodity prices.
But with some of the best 18 0 a payment made to a consultant in 2011 inrelation people in the industry, world-class assets, and 2017: 180 US cents per share to the Simandou project in Guinea.
Investigations the balance sheet strength to invest throughout are ongoing, and we continue to co-operate fully the cycle, we are in a strong position to continue Special dividend with the authorities.
In addition, both the Australian to create long-term, sustainable value for our US cents per share Securities and Investments Commission ASIC and shareholders and for society.
the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC are pursuing claims against the Group and its 243 former chief executive officer andchief financial officer in relation to the impairment of our Flexible shareholder returns policy Mozambique coal project reflected in Rio Tintos As announced in 2016, our flexible shareholder 2012 financial statements.
We believe that these returns policy balances three factors: cases are unwarranted and intend to defend them Maintaining a strong balance sheet vigorously.
The board continues to give these Simon Thompson Investing for future growth investigations and litigation careful attention, and Chairman Directly rewarding shareholders we are determined to restore Rio Tintos reputation 27 February 2019 forintegrity and strong governance.
We expect total cash returns to shareholders to be in the range of 40%-60% of underlying earnings through the cycle.
For our shareholder returns policy, see page 31.
Cash returns declared to shareholders $ billion 13.5 2017: $9.7 billion Chairmans statement Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
