The Group delivered a strong financial performance and CHAIRMAN'S made significant progress in implementing an ambitious STATEMENT plan to deliver higher growth and margins on a long term and sustainable basis.
2018 was a busy and productive year for reviews, we formulated a detailed business Rotork.
The Group delivered a strong plan, the objective of which is to return financial performance, despite an Rotork to the higher levels of organic increasingly challenging political and growth and operating margins previously macroeconomic environment, and made experienced by the business.
It is an significant progress with a number of key ambitious plan to be implemented at pace, strategic initiatives.
and we have termed it our Growth Acceleration Programme.
As previously reported, towards the end of 2017 we began a series of detailed business While there has been a great deal of activity reviews examining our routes to market, across the business, this is not about innovation funnel, operations footprint, transforming Rotork, but rather refining global supply chain, IT infrastructure and our how we do things, building on our strong talent base.
Following the appointment in foundations.
Kevin has assembled a strong March of Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive, team, with a wealth of experience in and the subsequent completion of those managing such programmes.
Early results in this first phase of the multi-year programme are encouraging, with strong support for all initiatives across the business.
Kevin provides a review of the progress made in the Growth Acceleration Programme in his report.
Financial highlights Order intake increased 2.3% on the prior year, or 5.4% on an OCC basis.
The strong order intake in the first quarter was partially offset by lower order intake in the second half reflecting the variation in the timing of project orders and deliveries compared with 2017.
Revenue increased by 8.3% to 695.7m OCC 11.3% with the strongest revenue growth coming from the downstream oil and gas and industrial markets.
Upstream and midstream oil and gas and water grew more modestly whilst sales to power declined.
Geographically, the strongest growth was in the Far East, with all regions apart from the Middle East growing.
The Middle East had seen a very active upstream oil and gas market in the prior year and these projects were not repeated in 2018.
Statutory operating profit increased by 43.0% to 122.9m, adjusted operating profit increased 12.2%, or 15.8m, to 146.0m OCC 14.8% with an adjusted operating margin 70 basis points higher at 21.0% OCC up 60 basis points at 21.1%.
An improved gross margin, increasing 60 basis points to 44.8%, and net overhead increases below the rate of revenue growth, both contributed to the improved adjusted operating margin.
Furthermore, initiatives to reduce working capital saw a reduction from 29.3% of revenue in the prior year to 27.7% and the balance sheet returned to a net cash position, with net cash of 43.
These movements combined to produce an improved return on capital employed of 29.2% 2017: 24.9%.
Tim Cobbold is an experienced former CEO We have assembled a capable management Growth Acceleration Programme We expect the cash costs of restructuring to w ith a strong background in Rotork's team, comprising new and existing talent.
be largely self-financed through working end markets.
We have a strong balance sheet, with opportunities to improve on an already capital improvements over the course of the Growth Acceleration Programme.
In line with best governance practice, Gary strong record of cash generation, providing Investment will be focused on market and Bullard, non-executive director and Chair of scope to further accelerate progress the Remuneration Committee, who has including through M&A.
product segments offering the greatest scope for growth and margin improvement, been a director for almost nine years, will with increased investment in our front-end not stand for re-appointment at the AGM Following double-digit OCC revenue growth on 26 April 2019.
On behalf of the Board, I in 2018, and mindful of macroeconomic commercial activities in particular key account management, new product would like to thank Gary for his invaluable uncertainty, we are planning for slower development, and site services aftermarket.
contribution to Rotork over the last nine growth in 2019.
Based on our current years, in particular as Chair of the assessment of project phasing, we expect to Much of the funding required for this we again expect to be self-generated through Remuneration Committee during a period of deliver modest sales growth on an OCC cost efficiencies and benefits arising from significant change for the Group.
Tim basis in 2019, with lower year on year sales Cobbold will assume the Chair of the in H1 reflecting the strong comparator the Growth Acceleration Programme.
The Board receives regular updates from Remuneration Committee following Gary period.
Margins will benefit from the management on progress with the Growth Bullard's retirement.
restructuring plans under our Growth Acceleration Programme initiatives.
Acceleration Programme and the We have also recently welcomed Helen implementation of additional cost saving Barrett-Hague as our new Group General initiatives.
Overall, we expect full year Employees and culture Counsel and Company Secretary following margins to show progress on 2018.
Rotork's culture is widely recognised as Stephen Jones' retirement in August 2018. having been a key contributor to our Helen joins us from Pennon Group where success.
We continue to build on our culture she was Group General Counsel and Martin Lamb and values, capitalising on our strengths, Company Secretary.
Prior to this she has Chairman whilst identifying additional core beliefs held a number of senior legal and company 4 March 2019 required in support of the next phase of the secretary roles and brings a wealth of Growth Acceleration Programme.
Our experience from a number of sectors.
existing culture is characterised by a supportive and co-operative approach, References to adjusted performance measures throughout teamwork, a strong sense of brand loyalty, Corporate governance C 0 this document relate to statutory result s adjusted to exclude and a hard-working, can-do mentality.
The Board continues to be committed to the ::: amortisation of acquired intangibles and other adjustments Building on these positive characteristics and highest standards of governance.
"References to organic constant currency OCC l defined by our employees, we will the year, the Board played a vital role in z results are the 20 18 figures restated at 2017 exchange rates, "" m supplement them with an increased appetite evaluating and helping to shape the Growth excluding the results of businesses acquired or disposed of during the period."
for external perspective, a greater Acceleration Programme.
In the second appreciation of process excellence and by half of 2018, the Board focused on the acting in a way that capitalises on our scale governance changes under the new as a business.
In addition, we look to Corporate Governance Code following embrace further innovative working policies its publication in July 2018. and practices to attract, retain and develop Investment case talent.
As an example, we recently pledged Further details of this work, our approach our commitment to the 30% Club in to governance and our compliance with Track record of growth support of greater gender balance at all the 2016 Corporate Governance Code are Three year revenue growth 8.4% contained in the Corporate Governance levels of Rotork.
"Our culture and values.. guiding the next stage of our journey have Report on pages 54 to 59. z Investment in innovation l been placed under an overarching banner z R&D spend 15.5m 2017: 14.0m "" called 'One Rotork'."
There is more Dividend information about this on page 40.
Rotork is a strong cash generator, recognises V, High margins the importance of a growing dividend to Adjusted operating margin 21.
0% We have a committed workforce who are its shareholders, and is committed to a m 2017: 20.3% z proud to be Rotork employees and progressive dividend policy, subject to cl determined to deliver on our ambitious satisfying cash demands which can vary Diverse end markets goals.
It is to that committed workforce I significantly from year to year.
This year the Our products and services are used offer my warmest thanks and appreciation Board recommends a final dividend of 3.7p extensively in the oil and gas, power, for all their efforts throughout 2018. per share, an increase of 10.4% from the water and industrial markets around 2017 final dividend.
With the 2018 interim the world dividend of 2.2p, the total dividend for the Board changes year is 5.9p 2017: 5.4p, a 9.3% increase on We were delighted to welcome Kevin Global reach, local presence Hostetler to the Board on 12 February 2018 2017.
"This is equivalent to 2.1 times cover A global business serving "" based on adjusted earnings per share and as Chief Executive from 12 March 2018."
0 customers in over 173 countries :::: 2017: 2.0 times.
"The final dividend will be Following Kevin's appointment as Chief ""I: Executive, I resumed my role as payable on 22 May 2019 to shareholders on z - Strong balance sheet the register on 12 April 2019."
"z Cash conversion 110.7% 0 2017: 109.1% ""' :::: Towards the end of the year as part of our Outlook Board succession planning, we also This is a very exciting period for Rotork."
We 0 Strong culture where z appointed two new non-executive directors.
have mapped out and are now executing a sustainability matters Ann Christin Andersen brings extensive comprehensive plan to return Rotork to the knowledge of the oil and gas industry and levels of growth and margin performance the application of new technology, most previously experienced by the Group, and to.. -.
Unite NIIl!on recently in the digital space, a key focus area do this on a sustainable basis throughout Glch'.
