Chairmans statement Howard Davies Chairman In 2018 the bank delivered a good ordinary dividend in a decade of 2 associated with exiting the European financial performance, despite an pence per share at our 2018 interim Union.
We have put in place plans that uncertain economic outlook and a results.
We are pleased to announce will enable us to continue to serve highly competitive environment.
that, subject to shareholder approval our customers in continental Europe.
Paying a dividend for the first time in being obtained at the 2019 Annual We have our Dutch Banking entity in a decade showed continued progress General Meeting, we will pay a final Amsterdam and we are in the final in building a stronger, safer bank that dividend of 3.5 pence per share and a stages of seeking approval for two is capable of delivering improving special dividend of 7.5 pence per share.
branches in Frankfurt, which we expect returns for shareholders.
Together this will mean over 1.6 billion to be operationally ready if required, in capital returns to shareholders for to support among other things the A pre-tax operating profit of 3.4 billion the Financial Year 2018.
We expect to continued clearing of euro payments.
and an attributable profit of 1.6 billion maintain ordinary dividends of around These actions are prudent given the represent a more consistent financial 40% of attributable profit.
uncertainty and will allow us to serve performance, following a return to our large corporate customers in profitability in 2017.
We achieved that The bank received approval from Western Europe while we wait for clarity improvement through stable income shareholders on 6 February to buyback on the terms of the deal.
generation - despite the low interest shares - equivalent to 4.99% of the rate environment as well as by Groups issued share capital - from HM In the UK, we are seeing large corporate reducing operating costs and fide-risking Treasury.
Any buyback of these shares customers delay investment decisions the balance sheet further.
will be at the discretion of HM Treasury, until they have more detail on the however this approval provides another outcome of the Brexit process.
As one of With the bank financially stronger and mechanism to return excess capital to the largest commercial lenders in the UK the largest legacy issues resolved, the shareholders in an efficient way.
we recognise our responsibility to provide Board and Management Team are support at a highly uncertain time.
focused on delivering a more consistent The journey towards a return to private and improved level of customer ownership continues and further As a predominantly UK and RoI focused service across all areas.
Customers progress was made in 2018.
In June, the bank, our performance and lending expectations of all service providers government undertook a further sell growth will broadly reflect those are high and the range of competitors down of its majority stake in the bank, economies.
UK economic growth in the market using diverse delivery selling 925 million shares, raising total remained behind its long term average mechanisms is as wide as it has ever proceeds of 2.5 billion, and reducing in 2018.
While the inflationary pressure been.
In addition, the induced by sterlings depreciation post Chancellor indicated in the Autumn the EU referendum subsided, consumer Shareholder returns and privatisation Budget that the UK government plans confidence remains muted.
It remains to Our stronger financial position has fully to exit its ownership of RBS by be seen what fiscal and monetary policy enabled us to provide clarity on how 2024. levers the Bank of England will pull in we intend to return excess capital to the event of an economic downturn, shareholders.
We believe that to sustain Brexit and the economy but lower interest rates for longer a sound bank of this kind we need a The Brexit process continues and we would affect the banks ability to deliver strong capital base.
We paid our first have planned for a range of scenarios significant income growth.
06 Progress on resolving our raising 4.4 million through their giving 14% by 2025, and are already making legacy issues and fundraising efforts.
Our flagship good progress against this, with 8% The bank resolved its remaining major financial education programme, representation.
We settled the MoneySense, met its annual targets.
US Department of Justice investigations Since 2015, we have reached 1.8 million Board changes into our historic pre-2007 activities young people and RBS employees have We were pleased to welcome Patrick in the US RMBS market in August supported 59,000 in-school workshops.
Flynn to the Board on 1 June 2018.
While settling this long-running Patricks appointment further issue was welcome, the 3.6 billion Last year, we witnessed a growing strengthens our overall board settlement was a stark reminder of how focus on climate change from composition and supports succession in the past this bank failed to put the regulators and investors.
Brendan Nelson will step interests of customers first.
bank publicly committed its support down as Chairman of the Group Audit of the Financial Stability Board's Task Committee with effect from 31 March We have seen good progress on the Force on Climate-related Financial 2019 at which time Patrick will assume revised scheme to satisfy our remaining Disclosures TCFD - a voluntary set the role of Chairman of the Group Audit State Aid obligations.
In 2017, Her of guidelines encouraging consistent Committee.
Brendan has indicated Majestys Treasury agreed with the climate-related disclosures in annual that he will not stand for re-election at European Commission a two part reporting.
We have now committed a the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Id scheme comprising of a Capability & further 10 billion to the Sustainable like to thank Brendan for his significant Innovation Fund, and an incentivised Energy sector by 2020.
This will include contribution since joining the Board as transfer of some of our Small and continued financing of low carbon a Non-Executive Director in 2010.
The Medium sized Enterprise customers generation as well as energy efficiency Board and the wider organisation have who were due to move to Williams & projects, such as in the real estate benefited from his extensive knowledge Glyn.
We welcome the progress that the sector, and alternative fuelled vehicles.
and experience and his presence will be independent body Banking Competition greatly missed.
Remedies Ltd has made and are Shareholders operationally ready to fully support We have continued to engage actively Penny Hughes resigned as a nonthe switching scheme and impacted with our shareholders.
A resolution executive director on 30 May and Ewen customers at its launch.
to establish a formal Shareholder Stevenson resigned as Chief Financial Committee was requisitioned by a Officer and Director on 30 September.
Ring-fence regulation group of shareholders at our AGM in I would like to thank Penny and Ewen In 2018, we continued to reshape the 2018.
It did not receive approval, in part, for all their hard work and dedication bank in response to UK ring-fencing we believe, because we have made to RBS.
This involved transferring efforts to engage with shareholders 4.5 million customers between different large and small.
Our investor As a result of Ewens resignation we legal entities.
In July, we reached a relations efforts are highly rated.
Our appointed Katie Murray as Chief key milestone when the Scottish Court Sustainable Banking Committee has Financial Officer, effective from 1 approved the banks request to transfer met a wide range of stakeholders for January 2019.
Katie brings nearly the customers who were affected a number of years.
Last year we held 30 years of finance and accounting by a change in legal entity.
We also retail shareholder events in Glasgow experience in capital management, introduced some significant changes to and Birmingham.
The events gave investor relations and financial planning the way our Boards operate to comply shareholders the opportunity to meet to the role.
She has already contributed with regulatory requirements.
We met with our Board and ask questions on significantly to RBS over the last three the PRA deadline on 1 January 2019 performance and strategy.
and are fully ring-fence compliant.
This was positive and we plan to hold more has been a complex project and I am events in 2019.
Conclusion pleased it has been undertaken with Overall, the Board is pleased with the minimal impact on customers.
Diversity and inclusion banks performance in 2018 during a In 2014, we set ourselves a target period of significant uncertainty in the Building a more sustainable bank to have at least 30% of roles in the macroeconomic environment.
We dealt and community engagement three most senior levels of each of our with our last major outstanding legacy We are aware of our responsibilities to businesses filled by women by 2020.
In issue, reduced our cost base, delivered the communities we serve, given the 2018, on aggregate across the bank, lending growth in a tough operating central role we play in the economy.
In this representation stands at 37%.
We environment and paid our first dividend 2018 we provided 30.4 billion in gross also are aspiring to achieve full gender in a decade.
We still have more work new lending to UK homeowners and balance at all levels of our business by to do to reach our 2020 ambitions, but supported over 100 billion of lending 2030. we continue to make good progress on to UK businesses, as we helped our improving returns for shareholders and customer continue to grow.
We are focused on becoming a more delivering better service for customers.
ethnically diverse organisation, to Our volunteering and fundraising reflect the communities in which partnerships continue to make a we operate.
We introduced formal difference for the communities UK targets in 2017 to improve the we serve.
In 2018, our employees proportion of non-white colleagues in supported a wide variety of charities our top 4 leadership layers, to at least 07
