08 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report VIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN RPC is committed to working with its customers to improve the environmental sustainability of products and, through its I am pleased to report focus on innovation, coupled with in-house recycling facilities, it is well positioned to another successful year of do so.
growth by the Group and continued financial, strategic Financial overview and operational progress.
Revenue grew 36% to 3,748m, adjusted operating profit increased 38% to 425.0m while adjusted basic earnings per share rose 16% to 72.0p.
The responsible use and Cash generation was robust, with net cash flows from operating activities of 386.7m, up 40% compared with the previous year.
Net profit attributable to disposal of plastics received equity shareholders for the year was 253.4m 2016 17: 132.0m and basic an increasing amount of earnings per share was 61.6p 2016 17: 37.1p, reflecting the significant decrease in adjusting items in the year and the full year effect of acquisitions in 2016 17. attention during the year, and At 14.8%, Return on capital employed ROCE remained strong although reduced recyclability and reusability marginally by 40 basis points bps, primarily due to the full year effect of Letica.
Return on net operating assets RONOA, a key internal operating measure and have become key design indicator of asset quality, increased 150bps to 27.2%.
Strategy The Group has continued to deliver its Vision 2020 strategy, which targets a Jamie Pike balanced portfolio of cash generating and growth markets, and draws on the Chairman strength of both customer and supplier relationships.
The strategy combines a focus on organic and acquisitive growth, with pursuing opportunities in the non-packaging markets and building the Groups exposure to attractive markets outside of Europe.
In the year, organic revenue growth of 2.8% remained ahead of GDP weighted for territories where RPC operates.
In the five years since the start of the current strategy, organic revenue growth has outperformed relevant GDP growth by more than 100 basis points bps.
Reflecting the scale and pace of strategic progress in 2016 17, the focus in 2017 18 was on investing in the existing business to support future growth, while integrating acquired businesses and realising synergies.
I am pleased to report that the major European integration programme, consisting of the GCS, Promens and BPI acquisitions, is now substantially complete, with the anticipated annualised synergy run-rate achieved at a lower cost than expected.
Towards the end of the financial year, the Group announced the 75m acquisition of Nordfolien, which completed after the year end.
The position of the Group outside Europe was significantly strengthened with the acquisitions of Letica and Astrapak whilst growing the turnover in China organically by 26%.
Revenues outside Europe of 831m 2016 17: 384m now represents 22% of the Group.
The Group continues to increase its presence in the polymer-consuming, high growth technical components market.
ESE World, a leading European provider of temporary waste storage systems, performed well in the first year of ownership and is well placed to make further progress as demand for enhanced waste management to avoid litter and plastic leakage into the environment accelerates.
The Group regularly reviews its portfolio of businesses with the aim of remaining relevant to industry and market dynamics by focusing on higher added-value plastic solutions that can be recycled or reused.
After the year end, a number of non-core businesses were confirmed for disposal during 2018 19.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Strategic Report Board Highlights of 2017 18 Martin Towers, who joined the Company in 2009 as an independent nonexecutive director, will step down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in July.
During his time at RPC, Martin has served as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director, and on behalf of the Board, Revenue m I would like to thank him for his commitment and significant contribution to the Full year success of the Company.
dividend per 3,748 In September 2017, the Board was delighted to welcome Kevin Thompson as an share declared p independent non-executive director and, from January 2018, as Chairman of the 36% Audit Committee.
Kevin is currently Group Finance Director at Halma Plc.
28.0 2017: 2,747m I am pleased to say that Lynn Drummond, the current Chair of the Remuneration Committee, will take over the role of Senior Independent Director, subject to 17% her re-election, following the Annual General Meeting.
This change will mean 2017: 24.0p that we will need to appoint an additional independent non-executive director to join the Board who will be able to take over Lynns current responsibilities Adjusted 1 for remuneration as the Company heads into a full review of the Remuneration operating profit m Policy in the autumn.
It is envisaged that this process will be started as soon as possible in order to provide sufficient time for a new independent non-executive director to work alongside Lynn in the initial stages of this process.
425.0 Corporate governance and responsibility 38% The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group operates in accordance 2017: 308.2m with all relevant governance and legal requirements.
The last year has seen a large number of changes from regulatory bodies and the government that have remained firmly on the agenda for discussion and this will remain the case as many of these proposals are implemented over the coming year.
Capital allocation and dividends The Remuneration Committees review of performance measures used in RPC The Board maintains a disciplined approach to capital and continuously reviews Groups incentive schemes, launched in response to investor concerns, has been capital allocation priorities with the aim of maximising shareholder value completed with a number of changes being made.
The key features of the new approach include the addition of ROCE in the During the year, further capital was deployed to support the organic growth performance share plan alongside total shareholder return and earnings per strategy and position the business for future growth.
The Board considers share, and the removal of the RONOA moderator.
Free cash flow and RONOA the dividend to be an important component of shareholder returns and is will be additive measures in the annual bonus plan ABP alongside adjusted recommending a final dividend of 20.2p, taking the total dividend for the year profit before interest and tax.
There will be no moderators in the ABP.
to 28.0p, an increase of 17% and representing the 25th year of consecutive The use of these combined measures will ensure management is consistently growth.
Share buybacks are considered relative to the attractiveness of focused on delivering results and driving shareholder value for the medium and alternative uses of capital.
In July 2017, the Board announced a buyback of up long-term.
to 100m of shares and at the year-end 83m had been spent acquiring 9.6m shares.
In what was a quieter year for acquisitions, the addition of Astrapak was People completed for an enterprise value of 80m.
Our people are our most important asset and we put their Health & Safety at the centre of everything we do.
This approach, and providing opportunities for Looking ahead development across the business, will ensure that they find RPC a rewarding RPC Group is a strategically strong and well-managed business and, as a place to further their careers, and that we will continue to attract a diverse leading design and engineering company, has the scale, innovative capabilities range of experts for the future.
and ambition coupled with the financial strength to exploit unprecedented market opportunities.
RPC has a strong track record of working with customers On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our loyal and hardworking to develop  plastic products and is uniquely placed employees who have contributed to yet another year of progress and look to contribute to a sustainable future for plastics and to deliver further growth forward to their continued support and involvement in the future.
I look forward to the year ahead and to reporting on the continued progress and growth of the Group.
Jamie Pike Chairman 6 June 2018 1 Please see Alternative Performance Measures on pages 47 to 51 for full definitions and reconciliations.
