Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Dividends and Free Shares One of the many great things about Royal Mail is its diverse shareholder base.
We estimate that nearly 20 per cent of our Company is owned by its own employees and retail investors.
Eligible full-time employees have now received a maximum of 913 Free Shares.
Taking into account the proposed final dividend, those employees with the full allocation of shares will have received well over 863 in dividends before tax since privatisation.
The Board is committed to our progressive dividend policy.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 16.3 pence per ordinary share on 31 August 2018, giving a total dividend of 24.0 pence per share for 2017-18, subject to shareholder approval at our 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The proposed total dividend is a four per cent increase on the total dividend of 23.0 pence per ordinary share for 2016-17.
Connecting companies, customers and communities We are proud to provide the Universal Service.
We believe that a modern and contemporary Universal Service Obligation USO is vital to the UK economy.
It is the delivery backbone of e-commerce in the UK.
The high fixed cost Universal Service network is funded by the market.
We need to evolve with the market to win new business and ensure the Universal Service is Chairmans statement financially sustainable.
Our ongoing transformation one of the largest of its kind in the UK has enabled Throughout 2017-18, we have continued to drive the us to barcode over 70 per cent of our transformation of our Company, thanks to the hard work parcels, complete one of the largest PDA rollouts across Europe and give customers and dedication of our people.
I have seen for myself the greater visibility of the mail delivery process great contribution made by our postmen and women to through Mailmark.
the households, businesses and communities we serve We are the most trusted and the most across the UK.
recommended parcel delivery company in the UK.
Our Net Promoter Score is We operate in 43 countries around the world.
GLS 40 over 10 points higher than our provides geographical diversification for our earnings nearest competitor.
and is a growth engine for the Group.
It is expanding its As our gateway to continental Europe presence in European markets and through focused and and the western US, GLS is a strategically targeted acquisitions in the western US.
important part of the Group.
It offers geographic diversification for our earnings Turning to important Board changes, in April 2018, and access to around 270,000 customers.
Its recent expansion in the US has enabled outside the reporting period, we announced the GLS to create an extensive parcel delivery retirement later this year of our CEO, Moya Greene, and network along the West Coast.
GLS also recently expanded its FlexDeliveryService, the appointment of Rico Back as her successor from which makes it easier for online shoppers 1 June 2018.
We also announced the appointment of to take delivery of goods purchased abroad.
The service is now available in a total of Sue Whalley as CEO of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 05 Royal Mail plc | Chairmans statement So, we announced on 20 April 2018 that A responsible employer We welcome the introduction of the Rico Back would succeed Moya as Group I am proud that, in a highly-competitive Non-Financial Reporting Directive CEO and join the Board on 1 June 2018. commercial environment, Royal Mail which aims to increase transparency Under Ricos leadership, GLS has become the continues to fulfil its obligations to its on social and environmental issues.
leading delivery company of its kind in Europe, hardworking employees.
Full details of non-financial matters making a highly valuable contribution to the We make the seventh largest contribution of relevant to our business, including our wider Royal Mail Group at the same time.
any UK company to the UK economy.
One in customers, our people, and our impact The Board believes that Ricos track record, every 194 jobs in the UK is provided by Royal on the environment, can be found in the his strong commercial acumen and his deep Mail.
Our employment is disproportionately Corporate Responsibility section of this understanding of the delivery industry mean he weighted towards areas where there are report see pages 48-53. is ideally placed to lead Royal Mail.
fewer job opportunities available, enabling Alongside Ricos appointment as Group CEO, us to make a significant contribution to Our Board I am delighted to welcome Sue Whalley to our social inclusion.
We have been pleased to welcome new Board as Chief Executive Officer of Post and members to the Board in the last 12 months.
Thanks to the changes enabled by our Parcels, Royal Mail UK.
Sue is leading the very Following last years AGM, on 20 July 2017, ground-breaking agreement with the CWU, important transformation of our UK business.
Stuart Simpson was formally appointed we will continue to offer the best terms and Her very significant experience in strategy Chief Finance Officer and joined the Board.
conditions in the delivery industry by some development, business transformation, Stuart brings a very detailed knowledge of distance.
We continue to work with the regulation and stakeholder management will our business to this key role, which he has Government in an effort to improve labour be of great value to us.
developed over eight years working both at standards across the gig economy.
Our The effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, the Group level and in our UK business.
postman and woman's pay compares very the Executive Directors, Non-Executive well to the industry.
Better labour standards Keith Williams and Simon Thompson joined Directors, and the Chairman was assessed will lead to better service standards the Board during the year as Non-Executive in March 2018 by an external consultancy.
Directors, both also becoming members of The results of this evaluation found that our the Audit and Risk Committee.
Keith has an Board and each of the Committees function The safety of our employees is always outstanding record as a business executive very well.
The findings of the evaluation are our first priority.
In 2017-18, we with extensive financial and customer discussed in more detail on page 67. delivered a nine per cent reduction in service experience across the aviation, retail road traffic collisions, one of our 2017-18 and insurance sectors.
Simon, currently Thank you key performance indicators KPIs.
Chief Product Officer, Ocado plc, has proven Special companies are made special by expertise in the digitisation of business and extraordinary people.
Royal Mail is no customer experience across the financial, A responsible company exception.
I had the pleasure of overseeing retail and technology sectors.
I am consistently proud of, and humbled the Chairmans Awards this year.
They by, the generosity of our people raising highlight the remarkable work of our people Cath Keers stepped down in February 2018 money for good causes.
Our Payroll Giving right across our organisation.
Royal Mails as a Non-Executive Director, having served scheme reached a significant milestone our postmen and women are quite simply almost eight years on the Board.
Cath has employees have donated over 60 million the best in the business.
Our customers played a pivotal role in this tremendous period through the scheme since it launched in 1989. choose us because of the quality of service of change.
I am grateful for her contribution We received a Lifetime Achievement award at they provide.
Thanks to the continued hard and, on behalf of the Board, I wish her well for the National Payroll Giving Excellence Awards work of our people, Royal Mail is making a the future.
in recognition of the success of our scheme.
difference on a daily basis to businesses, On 20 April 2018, after the reporting to consumers, to households and to local We are committed to doing even more period, we announced that the Board and communities.
I look forward to another in support of mental health awareness.
Moya Greene, our CEO, had agreed the time year of working with this remarkable group In May 2017, we announced our strategic was right for her to retire.
charity partnership with Action for Children, down as CEO on 1 June 2018, and from the Mind and Mental Health UK.
We hope to Board at the AGM: she will be providing advice raise at least 2 million to enable Action for and counsel to our new CEO until September.
Peter Long Children to employ specialist youth workers Under Moyas leadership, Royal Mail has been Chairman to deliver face-to-face support sessions for transformed, including our privatisation in 16 May 2018 8,000 young people aged 15-18 at risk of 2013 and two significant, ground-breaking developing mental health issues.
Alongside the We also took further steps to manage our strong financial position Moya has secured environmental impact and carbon emissions.
for the Company, there has been significant For example, we purchased 100 electric investment in our UK operation in recent vans to be used by postmen and women on years.
The Board is extremely grateful to their rounds.
We have commissioned nine Moya for her contribution to the Group over electric-powered heavy goods vehicles to trial the past eight years of service.
We wish her for transporting mail between distribution all the best in the future.
centres in London and the South East.
Royal I am also delighted to say that our internal Mail is the first UK fleet operator to trial these succession planning allowed us to announce new larger vehicles.
the promotion of two exceptional executives at the same time.
06 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
