CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The growing frequency, severity and sophistication of cyber-attacks has implications for all businesses.
While no business is immune, RSA has RSAs strategy is a strong framework in place to understand and mitigate the potential threats, spanning the risks associated with theft or loss of customer information as well as disruption to business operations.
We continue to invest in people and technology to enhance our cyber security the right one capabilities and protect the Group from evolving threats.
For our clients, we have developed several cyber speci c insurance products, which include risk assessments and data breach response planning.
Despite challenges, we see good Alongside new risks, the old remain: we bore our share of weatherrelated claims during the year, with extremes of cold and heat affecting reasons for optimism for the future.
our core markets of the UK and Canada.
This had an adverse impact on our combined ratio as we helped our customers return to normal.
RSAs response Dear shareholders, Despite challenges, now is a time of opportunity for insurers to do 2018 was a mixed year for RSA.
Whilst we did not achieve targeted our job more effectively than ever.
New developments in data and improvements in our Group underwriting result, there were some technology help us to get to know our customers better, serve them signi cant positives in our performance, and good reasons for optimism more quickly, price more precisely, and support efforts to manage for the future.
We have continued to show growth in our most pro table risks more proactively.
areas, set in train actions to address areas of persistent underwriting challenge, and maintained a strong balance sheet.
Increasingly, RSA works with our customers to help them understand the risks they face and encourage mitigating actions for example, Importantly, RSAs strategy is the right one.
The Group continues to through the application of telematics and connected technology, and be well-balanced across geographies, business lines and distribution risk consulting services that enable Commercial Lines clients to channels, and focused on achieving outperformance by pursuing benchmark their risk pro le against peers and identify opportunities excellence in customer service, underwriting and cost.
The industry also has an important role to play in supporting innovations that tackle challenges on a wider scale, The world we are in exempli ed by RSAs long standing leadership in insuring renewable RSA and our customers operate within a turbulent and challenging energy projects.
The Group is responding to a changing macroeconomic, Addressing these opportunities means dedicating our resources to political and competitive environment with focus and agility.
business lines where we have the expertise and capacity to deliver Brexit and changes in international trading norms continue to generate sustainable value for our customers and shareholders.
RSAs successes political and economic uncertainty.
In December 2018, we completed in the last five years have been underpinned by a focus on those areas the transfer of our European branches into a newly established where we have the strength and expertise to deliver best-in-class Luxembourg entity, ensuring our European businesses can continue performance.
In recognition of recent poorer than targeted underwriting to concentrate on their core offering, mitigating risk of disruption arising results, particularly in the UK business, we took steps in the second from the UKs exit from the EU.
We continue to plan for and mitigate other half of 2018 to exit a number of portfolios where we no longer see this potential implications.
Around 70% of RSA operates outside the UK, and opportunity.
Most signi cantly, we have streamlined our London Market is locally incorporated, reducing our exposure to depreciation in sterling, business to focus on a smaller number of core specialisms.
and our vulnerability to protectionist activity.
A con dent future Consumer con dence faces various challenges, and data suggests that the economy is slowing somewhat in many geographies.
In this RSA is focused not only on delivering great performance, but on doing context, we are focused on maximising the ef ciency of our operations business in the right way.
As a large business, employer and insurer, alongside the quality of our customer offer and experience, to maintain we recognise our in uence and know that our actions matter to the our competitiveness.
communities and partners we work with.
In 2018 we developed a new Customer Policy, and established a UK Customer Committee with Board oversight, in order to promote and secure positive outcomes for our customers in their interactions with RSA.
We continue to prioritise improvements to diversity around the Group.
We published our UK Gender Pay Gap gures, accompanied by a robust set of actions intended to improve the opportunities for women across our business.
Im delighted that this focus has been re ected in our Board appointments: we have welcomed Charlotte Jones and Sonia Baxendale to RSA as Non-Executive Directors, each bringing signi cant financial services and accounting experience.
Following Scott Egans appointment as CEO of our UK & International division, Charlotte will take up the position of Group CFO later this year.
In her new role she retains her position on the Board, now as an Executive Director, as does Scott.
04 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS For our shareholders, we are pleased to propose a final dividend of RSA is focused not only on delivering 13.7pence per share, making a total of 21.0 pence per share for the year.
great performance, but on doing business This is a 7% increase on 2017, re ecting the con dence we have in the in the right way.
business and its future prospects.
Thanks to our leadership and wider team On behalf of the Board, I would like to extend thanks to our Chief Meanwhile, Joseph Streppel, Chair of RSAs Investment Committee, Executive, Stephen Hester, and all our executive management teams will retire from the Board in May.
We thank Jos for his considerable for their thoughtfulness, rigour and positivity over the course of 2018. contribution over the last seven years.
Thanks and best wishes are also Together they have taken decisive action when required, and their due to Steve Lewis, who led our UK & International business for the past continued focus on building the underlying capabilities needed to four years, and left RSA in February.
develop our business for the long-term gives me great optimism.
It is a 2018 was also the final year of our Group corporate responsibility privilege to work with expert and motivated colleagues, who I am sure strategy, Making things better, together.
We undertook a wide review will secure RSAs ongoing success.
I thank all employees for their hard of RSAs responsible business activities to develop our new five-year work this year.
strategy, Con dent Futures, of which more details can be found later in I would also like to thank all our shareholders for your continued support, this report and in our accompanying corporate responsibility report.
and look forward to welcoming you to our Annual General Meeting in May.
Moving forward RSA is the product of our strong relationships with our customers, employees and broader stakeholder groups.
I am delighted to outline the plans of the Board for ongoing engagement with all of our stakeholders as part of this report.
Dialogue with employees and customers will Martin Scicluna continue to be a particular focus for the Board in 2019.
Chairman 27 February 2019 Why we exist RSA exists to help protect customers against risk and to serve OUR PURPOSE shareholders well.
In so doing, we contribute to society at large.
Our ambition is to win for all our stakeholders, through striving Where we OUR AMBITION to perform at best-in-class levels in our chosen markets.
are going How we will RSAs strategy is to: OUR STRATEGY get there Concentrate on the complementary regional insurance markets where we are strongest Sustain a platform of financial strength that enables our ambition Focus on continuously improving operational delivery, through better customer service, underwriting and cost ef ciency Consistently develop the capabilities of our people and our use of data, technology, and capital resources.
We aim to ful l our purpose, ambition and strategy by consistently OUR BUSINESS What will building our core business values: VALUES help us win Strong customer service A culture of openness and transparency Great technical know-how The power of teamwork.
Focus and determination We want RSA to be a place where ful lling careers can be built.
OUR PEOPLE How we We can achieve this through success in our business goals and work together living our People Principles: building a culture of high performance, working together effectively, and sustaining the diverse capabilities we require to succeed.
