08 CHAIRMANS LETTER Our continued success is due to the dedication and expertise of our employees.
Patrick Snowball I am delighted to introduce Sabre Insurance The performance of the business continues Group plcs first full 12 months Annual Report to be underpinned by a relentless focus Chairman and Accounts Annual Report following on maintaining the highest standards of its successful initial public offering IPO operational excellence, governance and in December 2017. financial reporting throughout the Company.
To this we can add the support of strong, Sabre continues to focus purely on the UK stable and very experienced individuals motor insurance sector, providing insurance throughout the business.
both through our mutually beneficial relationship with insurance brokers and Our Code of Conduct can be found on the direct to customers via direct brands Companys website at www.
co. uk Go Girl, Insure 2 Drive and Drive Smart.
about-us code-of-conduct and information Within this market we continue to benefit regarding our risk management processes from our specialist skills, allowing us to can be found on pages 22 to 26. underwrite higher premium business During the year our previous private equity that insulates us somewhat from wider owner, BC Partners, divested the remainder market conditions.
of its shareholding via two share placements.
The Board has continued to focus on I would like to thank BC Partners for its delivering Sabres long-established strategy guidance and support leading up to our IPO.
of focussing on profitability rather than I would like to welcome new shareholders growth, giving us confidence of long-term who invested in the Group during these success in a dynamic and highly competitive placements, and through the year.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 09 2018 Performance Our people Outlook The Group has delivered pleasing results for Our continued success is due to the Despite operating in a market currently 2018, in line with the Boards expectations.
dedication and expertise of our employees.
undergoing significant regulatory change This demonstrates Sabres resilience in highly We continue to enjoy excellent support at all I remain very confident that the Group competitive market conditions.
The CEO, levels through the business and experience will continue its track record of delivering in his report, comments more extensively very little employee turnover.
During the strong performance in all prevailing on the changing market conditions.
However year the Board has worked at increasing market conditions.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the investment opportunities for employees the Boards confidence that Sabres robust in the Company by increasing the maximum business model, track record of underwriting monthly contributions to the Companys discipline and very experienced executive and Save As You Earn SAYE Plan and by operational management team means we will introducing an employee contribution Patrick Snowball be able to successfully navigate through these element to the Companys Share Incentive Chairman changing times.
Plan SIP, with a matching share provided 27 March 2019 by the Company for every three shares I am especially pleased that we have purchased by the employee.
These changes been able to announce a special dividend will come into effect in 2019.
Further details of 6.0 pence per share.
Along with the on this can be found in the Remuneration ordinary dividend of 6.8 pence per share this Committee Report on pages 46 to 48. has delivered a very attractive total dividend I would like to take this opportunity to thank for the year of 20.0 pence per share.
These all of our employees for their continued returns to shareholders illustrate the merits commitment and hard work.
of Sabres focus on underwriting discipline and its strong cash generation.
Continuing Dialogue with shareholders this model going forward will ensure I would like to thank all our shareholders for sustainable returns for our shareholders.
their support during the year.
I am keen to maintain an active dialogue and the Board Going forward we will continue to focus on is committed to keeping you informed of delivering an ordinary dividend of 70% of significant developments by providing regular Adjusted Profit After Tax PAT, and return updates on our performance and proactively excess capital to shareholders as appropriate.
Further detail of the Companys performance is outlined in the Chief Executives review and Chief Financial Officers review on pages 14 to 17 and 28 and 29 respectively, of this Annual Report.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
