Strategic Report Chairmans statement would like to thank our shareholders, both institutional and retail, for their ongoing support and forbearance this year and to welcome those who I have joined us.
At the end of 2017 we took steps to rebase our profit Our customers expectations, implement 10m of annualised savings from across the Group at a one off cost of 5m, and and their changing increase our targeted spend by 10m a year to grow customer numbers.
This had a significant impact on our needs remain central share price and Lance and Jonathan have been working to rebuild the markets confidence in Saga.
to everything we do Due to the challenging markets in which our core businesses of Retail Insurance and Travel operate, we 1 at Saga.
delivered growth in Underlying Profit Before Tax of 1 1.4% to 190.1m and in underlying earnings per share of 0.7% to 13.8p.
Profit before tax and earnings per share from continuing operations declined by 7.6% and 7.8% respectively, due to costs associated with our refinancing, the 10m annualised savings, and fair value movements on derivatives.
We have continued to be highly cash generative, resulting in a further deleveraging and enabling us to reduce our net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio to 1.7 times.
Note: 1 Alternative performance measure refer to the glossary on page 209 for definition and explanation Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 6 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We have delivered on our dividend policy again this year, increasing our dividend to 9.0p.
The decision to increase the dividend to this level reflects the Boards ongoing confidence in the stability of our highly cash generative model.
Our customers and their changing needs remain central to everything we do at Saga and we have built strong platforms and systems in 2017 that will help us interact differently and more efficiently with our 500,000 plus members going forward.
After 26 years with Saga, 14 as Chairman, I will retire from the Board on 30 April 2018.
I welcome Patrick OSullivan as my successor and wish him success as he takes over the stewardship of this great British company.
Our employees have incredibly high standards and a passion for delivery and customer service that I have not seen elsewhere.
I would like to thank them allpast and presentfor everything they have done to make my time at Saga so enjoyable and to make Saga the great business it is.
I wish Lance, the Board and the management team every success in the next stage of its evolution.
Andrew Goodsell Chairman 11 April 2018 Our governance supports our strategic priorities Governance highlights Our governance structure supports our investment for future growth.
Our processes ensure good stewardship as we strive to become increasingly customer-centric, seek to grow our Retail Insurance and Travel businesses and maintain our efficient operating model.
All resolutions proposed at our AGM were passed with a significant majority and all Directors standing for re-election were reappointed.
We comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Code recommendation that half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
We conducted an externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation process and agreed action plans to focus on areas of development.
Read more p52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 7
