CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Driving value Read my statement within the Corporate governance report forinsight into the activities of theBoard for 2018 and how we engage and communicate with ourvarious stakeholders.
p. 74 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT The only other change to the composition of the Board in Looking back at FY18 FY18 took place at the start of the year when Blair Crump In the past year the Sage Group has made further progress in joined the Board as an Executive Director to strengthen its evolution towards a cloud and subscription-led business.
itsgo-to-market knowledge and customer understanding.
46% of Group revenue is now on subscription and the Group currently has cloud annualised recurring revenue ARR of During FY18, Board members took the opportunity to meet 434m, growing at a rate of 51%.
with colleagues, customers, partners and accountants in Newcastle, London, Reading, Atlanta, San Jose and Seattle, as The strategy to move customers from desktop to a cloud well as participating in a Sage Foundation day with our charity connected solution has been particularly successful, with partner, Circle Collective.
During the Boards formal meeting athird of Sage 50 customers now on a cloud connected time, we have focused heavily on how culture will help us contract.
Cloud connected ARR is now 280m and grew at deliver on our strategic ambitions.
66%, and we continue to see this strategy as a major growth driver into FY19.
The year ahead Attracting customers to a cloud native solution also As we look to FY19, creating a great SaaS business remains continues to gain traction with cloud native ARR of 153m, our vision and priority.
To be successful, Sage must continue which grew at 30%.
Important to this success have been the to embrace an ever-closer relationship with its customers, acquisitions of Sage Intacct and Sage People made in FY17, putting them at the heart of every conversation and enabling which continue to demonstrate the considerable momentum customer success on Sage software and in their own shown on acquisition.
In doing so Sage will leverage the skills of the cloud-native Sage Intacct business.
Sage must also focus Sage Enterprise Management, for larger businesses, oncolleague success by building a high-performing culture continues to be a successful tool to acquire new customers, where colleagues are happy and motivated.
Additionally, in growing at 11%, with over 70 larger contracts signed in the order to build a business centred on subscription and the year, each with a value of over 100,000 per contract.
cloud, Sage must also continue to focus on innovation, providing the best technology for its customers.
However, progress in FY18 has not been as rapid as anticipated.
In H1 18 in some areas of the business, there Sage Intacct is an excellent example of where these remained inconsistent operational execution and too much characteristics are already embedded within the business.
emphasis on perpetual licence sales instead of a focus on The Group plans to internationalise Sage Intacct beyond the high-quality recurring revenue growth.
As a result, Group USA, starting with its English-speaking geographies, from organic revenue growth was less than the anticipated 8% FY19 onwards.
This move is a significant step forward in outlined at the start of the year.
The continued evolution of Sages strategy to drive new customer acquisition and the business depends on refining systems and processes and migrate existing customers to the cloud, and will leverage on consistent execution.
It also requires increasing focus on Sage Intaccts highly effective business model as a key subscription and recurring revenue in the transition to a component of Sages SaaS engine.
The Board believes that the greatest value creation for ourshareholders will be seen from an acceleration in new customer acquisition and migrating existing customers to subscription and the cloud.
To this end, Sage will make an Value creation for our increased investment of around 60m in innovation, tools and systems to support colleagues and customers.
Nevertheless, shareholders will be seen from the Group remains strongly cash generative with free cash anacceleration in new customer flow of 19% of revenue at FY18 and a 7% increase in full year dividend of 16.5p.
acquisition, on subscription, Thank you inthe cloud I would like to thank the Board and all our colleagues for alltheir hard work during the year, with particular thanks to Steve Hare for stepping up as interim COO in addition to his Stephen Kelly stepped down as a Director and Chief Executive other duties prior to his appointment as CEO.
The Group lost Officer CEO on 31August 2018.
The Board thanks Stephen no momentum during this interim period.
We look forward to Kelly for his considerable contribution to the Group.
FY19 and the strides Sage will make as it continues its evolution towards being a great SaaSbusiness.
The Board is pleased that Steve Hare has accepted its invitation to lead the Company as its new CEO.
He has theright skills and knowledge to ensure that the Company embeds increased prioritisation and more effective execution to accelerate the strategy.
He was appointed CEO on 2November 2018: the Board will announce a successor to Donald Brydon SteveHare as Chief Financial Officer CFO in due course.
Chairman The Sage Group plc.
