Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement Nicholas Ferguson CBE, Chairman Savills delivered a Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by 9%, our Consultancy business revenue by 8% and our Property Management revenue by 14%.
The UK resilient performance delivered a resilient performance in the Commercial Transaction businesses in an environment of relatively robust occupier demand and continued strong in the face of some investment interest, particularly from the Asia Pacific region, albeit in a softer market in terms of volume traded compared with 2017.
Our Residential business challenging market continued to perform well in challenging conditions.
Our Asia Pacific and Europe & Middle Eastern transactional businesses performed as anticipated, conditions, reflecting with particularly strong results from Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Ireland and Germany.
In addition we benefited from an encouraging maiden our geographic year performance from Savills Aguirre Newman in Spain.
In the US, we delivered significant growth in the Occupier Service business including tenant diversity, breadth of representation brokerage.
This led to an improved US performance overall for the year, even after the continued costs of investment in the business, including operations and recent significant investment in our central office platform and the net costs of the capital markets team in New York.
Finally, Savills Investment Management successfully mitigated the expected significant decline in activity relating to business investment disposals from liquidating the SEB German Open-Ended Funds.
The business launched a number of new products, raising significant new capital, increasing activity its Assets Under Management AUM to 16.4bn 2017: 14.6bn and achieving a result in line with our expectations for the year.
The reduction in transaction fees in the Investment Management business and growth in our lower margin but stable Property Management business, together with our investment activities in a number of markets restricted the Results underlying profit margin to 8.2% 2017: 8.8%.
The Groups revenue improved by 10% to 1.76bn In addition to the aforementioned factors impacting the underlying profit 2017: 1.6bn and underlying profit for the year margin, higher acquisition-related charges, lower profits on disposal of increased by 2% to 143.7m 2017: 140.5m.
The investments and a one-off charge in relation to the impact of equalising Groups statutory profit before tax decreased by 3% Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP on the UK defined benefit pension plan to 109.4m 2017: 112.4m.
also affected the statutory pre-tax profit margin during the year, which declined Overview to 6.2% 2017: 7.0%.
As a result of a robust second half of the year, Savills Business development delivered both revenue and underlying profit Savills strategy is to be a leading advisor in the key markets in which we growth in 2018.
In addition to maintaining or operate.
Our global strategy is delivered locally by our experts on the ground growing our share of transactional markets, the with flexibility to adapt quickly to changes in circumstances and opportunities.
performance of our less transactional business lines They are supported by our regional and cross-border investment and was key to this performance.
This was achieved occupier services specialists.
Over the last few years we have acquired a against a backdrop of heightened uncertainty as number of complementary businesses and added teams and individual hires Brexit, US trade policy and higher long-term to our strong core business.
treasury yields, particularly in the benchmark US 10 year Treasury Bond, began to have a discernible In May 2018, we expanded our platform into a new region through the impact on investor sentiment in a number of our key acquisition of Cluttons Middle East, which is being integrated in to the Europe & markets.
Currency movements had a negative Middle East business.
In addition, the integration of Aguirre Newman in Spain, impact on the Group, decreasing revenue by acquired in December 2017, continues to proceed as planned alongside the 20.7m, underlying profit by 1.3m and statutory continued investment in our new business in the Czech Republic, which now profit before tax by 0.5m.
provides a full service offering to commercial clients.
04 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements In the UK, we acquired Broadgate Estates Workthere in eight countries and seen During the year, we reviewed the third party property management portfolio significant uptake from both tenants and composition of the Board.
Following this from British Land and made a number of the serviced office providers.
review, Stacey Cartwright and Florence incremental acquisitions to complement our Tondu-Mlique were appointed as In addition, we continue to review and existing UK business.
These acquisitions additional independent Non-Executive support a number of investment included a property agency in Guernsey Directors in October 2018.
Stacey opportunities in the field of emerging creating Savills first residential presence in Cartwright will succeed Liz Hewitt as technology and our proprietary investment this region Martel Maides, a property Chairman of the Audit Committee at arm, Grosvenor Hill Ventures GHV, has services company in East London Currell, the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
made further investments in these and a planning and development promising technology opportunities during Dividends consultancy business based in London the year.
Our largest investment to date is An initial interim dividend of 4.8p per Porta Planning.
in YOPA, the digital hybrid residential UK share 2017: 4.65p amounting to 6.6m In Asia Pacific, we made some significant estate agent, which has grown to become was paid on 3 October 2018, and a final hires into our valuation teams in Thailand the sixth largest UK estate agent.
During ordinary dividend of 10.8p 2017: 10.45p and Singapore.
We continued to expand the year GHV made a small additional is recommended, making the ordinary throughout Australia and in China, where investment in YOPA to support this growth dividend 15.6p for the year 2017: 15.1p.
In we opened three new offices and recruited and also in VuCity, which is a digital city addition, a supplemental interim dividend circa 50 professionals to facilitate our modelling platform, initially focused on of 15.6p 2017: 15.1p is declared, based continued long-term expansion in this optimising development and planning upon the underlying performance of our market.
During the year we commenced a applications for developers, architects, Transaction Advisory business.
Taken long-term commitment to the start-up of planners and Local Authorities.
together, the ordinary and supplemental Savills India, which opened for business in interim dividends comprise an aggregate Board October with offices in Delhi, Mumbai and distribution for the year of 31.2p per share, Jeremy Helsby retired as Group Chief Bangalore focusing on project representing an increase of 3% on the 2017 Executive at the end of 2018 after a 39 year management, commercial leasing, occupier aggregate dividend of 30.2p.
The final career at Savills, 11 of them as Group Chief services, capital markets brokerage and ordinary dividend of 10.8p per ordinary Executive.
Under Jeremys leadership valuation services.
share will, subject to shareholders Savills has become a leading global real approval at the AGM on 8 May 2019, In North America, we continued to expand estate advisor and successfully both be paid alongside the supplemental our occupier-focused business lines internationalised and diversified the interim dividend of 15.6p per share on through both recruitment and investment business.
On behalf of the Group as a 13 May 2019 to shareholders on the in technology.
whole, I thank Jeremy for all that he has register at 12 April 2019. done for Savills over many years and we Finally, the Savills Investment Management are delighted that he continues to consult People business acquired a 25% interest in DRC for us in respect of the development of the Capital LLP DRC, a leading European I would like to express my thanks to all our US business in 2019. manager of real estate debt funds, with the staff worldwide for their hard work, option to purchase the remaining 75% of commitment and continued focus on client Mark Ridley succeeded Jeremy as Chief DRC in 2021: this transaction provided an service, which enable the Group to deliver Executive on 1 January 2019, having joined exciting opportunity to add real estate these results.
the Board as Deputy Group Chief Executive debt to our portfolio of real estate in May 2018.
Mark has been with Savills for Outlook investment products.
22 years, latterly in the role of CEO UK, We have made a solid start to 2019 Europe and the Middle East.
The Board and Emerging technology continues to be a however, the year ahead is overshadowed I very much look forward to working with focal area in the real estate industry and by macro-economic and political him through the next phase of the also for our business.
We have continued to uncertainties across the world.
It is difficult development of the Savills business invest in our own technology platform in accurately to predict the impact of these worldwide.
order both to deliver innovative solutions to issues on corporate expansionary activity our clients through data analysis and The Board announced in September 2018 and investor demand for real estate.
At insight and to drive internal efficiencies.
that Charles McVeigh, who has served on this stage, we expect to see declines Examples of this include our award winning the Board since 2000, will retire at the in transaction volumes in a number Knowledge Cubed platform, deployed to conclusion on the Companys AGM in of markets and growth in our less our occupier services clients across all May 2019.
I thank him for his enormous transactional business lines: accordingly regions which has been recognised for its contribution to the Board over so many we retain our expectations for the innovation by both the Financial Times and years.
Liz Hewitt, who has been on the Group's performance in 2019.
CoreNet the occupier Services industry Board since 2014, will also retire at the body in the US.
We continued the roll out conclusion of the Companys AGM in of Workthere.
com, our advisory service to Nicholas Ferguson CBE May 2019.
I would like to thank Liz for her corporates seeking flexible office or contribution to the Group and, in particular Chairman co-working space.
With New York going in Chairing the Audit Committee.
live in January 2019, we have now launched 143.7m 109.4m 31.2p Statutory profit Underlying profit Total dividend before tax 2017: 112.4m 2017: 140.5m 2017: 30.2p 05
