Chairmans Statement At the Companys last AGM, the Company was given the Performance authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
We propose that share buyback authorities be renewed at the forthcoming AGM and that any shares so purchased be... maintains the cancelled or held in treasury for potential reissue.
Companys Board succession excellent record During the past year, Martin Porter joined the board and Anthony Fenn retired at the last AGM.
In line with the boards over the longer agreed succession plans, I will be retiring at the AGM in term... January 2021.
The nomination committee will shortly be searching for a new board member.
The board believes that it is important for appropriate new skills to be brought to the board and will look to refresh one director every two to three During the year to 30 September 2018, the Company years.
A director will serve for a period of more than nine retained the gains made in the two prior exceptional years, years only in exceptional circumstances.
All directors will be despite difficult market conditions generally.
The NAV subject to re-election each year at the AGM.
produced a positive total return of 4.2%, very slightly trailing the Benchmark.
The Companys share price also produced a Outlook positive total return of 2.2%, which maintains the Companys excellent record over the longer term.... the Companys share price is four times A more detailed comment on performance and investment policy may be found in the Managers Review.
The Companys year-end coincided with the 10-year Final dividend anniversary of the 2008 worldwide market shakeout.
Now The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of there are new challenges to growth, notably tariff wars and 9.50 pence per share for the year ended 30 September 2018, higher Western interest rates.
Equity markets have been very an increase of 69.6% over the 5.60 pence paid in respect of volatile since the year end but it is worth remembering that the previous financial year.
Net revenue after taxation has the Companys share price is four times the level of 10 years increased by 77.0% from 9,537,000 to 16,885,000, partly ago.
Asia, and your Company, has been a major beneficiary due to the increase in investment income receivable of of the new world order after 2008-09.
The remaining increase of 6,110,000 was due to The Managers Review discusses some of the new issues a change in basis of accounting whereby 75% of indirect costs facing Asia, of which probably the most fundamental is are allocated to capital.
In line with the Companys policy of whether China can transition to a lower growth model at a distributing substantially all its revenue after tax, the dividend time it is under political and economic pressure from its proposed is significantly higher than in the prior year.
It is largest trading partner, the US.
China, and the region as a anticipated any future increases in dividends will progress at whole, has a great record of achieving its goals and the next a similar rate to previous years.
If the resolution proposed at few years will test that record.
I am conscious too that, at the the Annual General Meeting AGM to pay a final dividend is moment, the state authorities are increasing their passed, it will be paid on 31 January 2019 to shareholders on involvement with the commercial operating environment, the register on 28 December 2018. potentially affecting the profitability of leading private sector companies.
Gearing I remain optimistic that the regions underlying strengths will During the year, gearing has remained relatively modest, turn into further success for the Company.
Ultimately, it is the starting at 4.4% at the commencement of the year and companies in which we invest that need to succeed, and I closing at 2.6%.
This level is within pre-agreed limits so that take comfort from how many of them have become net effective gearing cannot represent more than 20% of dominant regional and global presences in the last decade.
AGM Discount management The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 23 January 2019 at The board continues to follow a flexible strategy towards 12.00 noon.
As in previous years, Matthew Dobbs, on behalf discount management.
The average level of discount during of the Manager, will give a presentation on the prospects for the year under review was 11%.
We view 10% as a maximum Asia and the Companys investment strategy.
The Company discount target over the longer term but believe also that it is changed its registered address earlier this year to 1 London not necessarily in the best interests of shareholders as a Wall Place, London EC2Y 5AU and I hope you will all attend.
whole to adopt a rigid discount control mechanism that seeks to target a defined maximum discount level regardless of market conditions.
Nicholas Smith Chairman We did not buy back any shares during the year under review but we regularly reviewed both the discount level and the 10December 2018 possible use of buy backs.
Our policy takes account of the level of discount at which the Companys peer group trades, prevailing market conditions and activity within our sector.
