Chairmans statement Performing in more challenging times 2018 was a challenging year for investors, particularly in the second half as most markets declined.
As a result the asset management industry saw high levels of fund outflows towards the end of the year.
Against this background Schroders delivered solid results with profit before tax and exceptional items of 761.2 million 2017: 800.3 million.
Profit before tax was 649.9 million 2017: 760.2 million.
Net outflows were 9.5 billion 2017: net inflows of 9.6billion and assets under management and administration at the end ofthe year amounted to 421.4 billion 2017: 447.0 billion.
4 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Dividend Our policy is to provide our shareholders with a sustainable dividend, increasing dividends progressively in line with the trend in profitability and maintaining a payout ratio of approximately 50%.
The Board will recommend to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting a final dividend of 79 pence per share 2017: 79 pence bringing the full year dividend to 114 pence per share 2017: 113 pence.
The final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2019 to shareholders on the register at 29 March 2019.
Corporate purpose Schroders plays a vital role in helping a broad range of investors frommajor institutional clients such as pension funds, insurance companies or sovereign wealth funds, through to individuals saving for retirement, meet their financial goals.
Entrusted with more than New headquarters 400 billion of client assets, we also have a major role to play in In September 2018 we moved to our new headquarters channelling capital to companies to support them in investing for 1 London Wall Place, which has enabled us to bring together growth and we actively engage with our investee companies in almost all our London based employees in a new, state relation to strategy, governance and environmental impact.
It was a great honour to welcome Our business philosophy is based on our belief that if we deliver for Her Majesty The Queen to Schroders on 7 November 2018 to our clients, by offering the investment capabilities which successfully mark the occasion.
protect and enhance their capital, then we will deliver satisfactory returns for our shareholders over the long term.
We have a wide range of stakeholders including clients, the companies in which we invest, our shareholders, our counterparties that the Board operates most effectively with an appropriate mix of and suppliers, wider society and, of course, our employees.
We have executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors and nominated Ian King, the Senior Independent Director, to be Directors connected to the principal shareholder group.
We responsible for providing feedback from employees to the Board and confirmed that view as part of our succession discussions in 2018.
Ian will attend several of our global employee forum meetings in The Nominations Committee consulted with the trustees of the 2019.
We were pleased to see in our 2018 employee opinion survey Schroder family trusts and other members of the principal that 92% said they were proud to be associated with Schroders and shareholder group regarding a successor to Bruno Schroder.
86% said they would recommend Schroders as a good place to work.
Following those consultations, the Committee received from the We take very seriously the views of our clients and shareholders.
At trustees a proposal that Leonie Schroder was their preferred one of our Board meetings in 2018 we discussed a detailed report on candidate to succeed Bruno Schroder on the Board.
After careful client needs and how we are perceived by clients.
We also discussed consideration, the Nominations Committee decided to recommend to an investor review which we commissioned to gain shareholder the Board her appointment as a Director.
The Board supported the insights into our strategy, competitive positioning and governance.
proposal and she will join the Board effective 11 March.
Deborah Waterhouse will join the Board as an independent nonThe Board executive Director also on 11 March.
Deborah has considerable Bruno Schroder died on 20 February 2019, aged 86, after a short experience as Chief Executive of a major international business illness.
Bruno joined the Board of Schroders in 1963 and made an operating in many of the markets in which we are active.
enormous contribution to the Company over more than 50 years.
Hewas passionate about Schroders, unwavering in his support and Robin Buchanan will retire as a Director at the Annual General always thinking long term.
He brought long experience, sound Meeting in May having completed nine years on the Board.
Robin judgement and a sense of humour to our deliberations.
He travelled hasmade a major contribution during his time on the Board and widely on behalf of the Company, meeting clients and employees, asamember of the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk supporting management and reinforcing our values.
He has always provided constructive challenge and anticipating retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting valuable insights to our strategic discussions.
On behalf of the on2 May 2019 but we were looking forward to his continued support.
Board, I would like to thank him for all he has done for the Company.
We will miss that and we send our heartfelt condolences to Brunos wife and family.
Our people Schroders success derives from our diversified business model, In anticipation of Brunos retirement, the Nominations Committee ourfinancial strength, our values and above all our more than 5,000 gave consideration in 2018 to the model for recognising in the Board talented people.
We remain committed to the progress and composition the interests in the Company of the principal shareholder development of our employees around the world and to providing group, as well as to his succession.
For over 40 years the Board has anenvironment that is open, collaborative and based on merit.
included two Directors with a connection to the principal shareholder group.
We have been consistent in our view that having two members 2018 was a year of hard work and considerable achievement, laying of the family serve on the Board benefits the Company in aligning the foundations for future growth in many areas of our business.
interests and reinforcing long-term thinking.
We continue to believe Onbehalf of the Board I would like to extend our thanks to all our employees for their contribution to this success.
Michael Dobson Chairman Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5
