| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 03 Chairmans Statement who prefer the comfort of investing with the crowd.
As an independent investment trust, The Scottish is able to take this differentiated view in the long-term interest of shareholders.
This contrarian philosophy is reflected in the portfolio which is constructed without reference to any benchmark or stockmarket index.
We do not expect the portfolio return to be similar to a particular index return in any given year and we expect that the contrarian style will work differently depending on market conditions.
For example, the Manager expects that the Company might not participate fully in more speculative market Performance conditions as the investment team seeks to avoid I am pleased to report that the Company delivered investments that are sustained by overly enthusiastic another year of positive total returns during the twelve sentiment.
The share price total return was 1.9% and the net asset value per share NAV total Growing our following return with borrowings at market value was 1.1%.
The Scottish has made many important changes in recent The Company does not have a formal benchmark but, years, which I have discussed in previous Chairmans by way of comparison, the sterling total return of the Statements.
The aim of these changes was to continue international MSCI All Country World Index ACWI was to provide an attractive, low cost investment vehicle 3.4% while the UK based MSCI UK All Cap Index total for our shareholders who are mainly individuals.
aim to grow our loyal following as the merits of our approach are increasingly recognised.
In this regard, it As noted in previous communications, we do not expect is pleasing to note that we were voted Best Investment the Companys portfolio to match any particular index Trust in the 2018 Shares Awards, received the award for return over any defined period due to the contrarian Best PR Campaign from The Association of Investment nature of the portfolios composition.
Our contrarian Companies and were awarded Best Investment Trust for approach aims to achieve above-average returns over Income at the Online Personal Wealth Awards.
A very visible change has been our reinvigorated Investment approach approach to marketing and investor communications.
The investment management industry continues to By communicating our distinct investment style in undergo rapid change.
A clearer distinction is now made an engaging manner, we aim to stimulate additional between passive and active investment management.
demand for the Companys shares to seek to ensure Increasingly, investors wish to either track a stockmarket that the discount to NAV remains at or below 9% with index or, instead, seek a genuinely active and a reduced recourse to share buybacks.
The team has differentiated approach.
produced a wealth of thought-provoking content which is shared on our website and social media.
I would Passive products, by design, take no account of encourage you to follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn.
We think this creates an News and articles can be found on our website and you opportunity for an active, long-term investor.
can also subscribe to our monthly email.
The high conviction, global contrarian investment approach adopted by Alasdair McKinnon and his team Dividend policy clearly distinguishes the Company from our global The year to 31 October 2018 was the first year of our investment trust peers and from passive investment higher and more frequent dividend.
these changes was outlined in last years annual report The approach aims to profit by investing in carefully but, as a reminder, the key elements are summarised selected, but unfashionable, companies which appear below.
undervalued as they are overlooked by other investors 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 3 07 12 2018 14:58 | 04 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Statement continued Last year there was a step change increase in the prohibited an investment trust from distributing any regular dividend, lifting it by nearly half, as well as a shift surplus arising from the realisation of its investments to quarterly dividend payments.
The contrarian style was repealed.
In compliance with the previous statutory does not explicitly target higher yielding investments regime, the Company has a provision in its current but is expected to generate a higher than average Articles which expressly prohibits the distribution of any level of income through an investment cycle.
If there surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
are occasions when the portfolio does not generate a In the light of the amended statutory rules, the Board sufficient level of income to cover the requirements of no longer considers it appropriate for the Articles to the regular dividend, the Board considers that it would contain such a prohibition and therefore proposes that be appropriate to utilise the Companys healthy revenue it is removed.
The Board believes that the removal of reserve.
this restriction will give the Company greater flexibility in the long-term as it will enable the Company to make Shareholders now have a clearer indication of the distributions from any surplus arising from the realisation income that they can expect to receive from their of any investment.
However, the Board has no intention investment while gaining a more regular income stream.
of exercising this authority at the current time.
Following this step change increase, the Company has The Board is also taking the opportunity to propose some one of the highest stated dividend yields among its additional amendments to the Articles to increase the global investment trust peers.
aggregate limit of Directors' remuneration in each year from 250,000 to 300,000 and to reflect other recent Income and dividend regulatory changes including, for example, in relation to Over the past year, earnings per share rose by 12.8% to the Company's international tax reporting obligations and 26.0p 2017: 23.1p.
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.2p which, increase in the aggregate limit of Directors remuneration if approved, will mean that the total regular dividend for provides additional flexibility over the number of the year will increase by 6.0% to 21.2p and will be the Directors on the Board and ensures that the Company 35th consecutive year of regular dividend increase.
continues to have the ability to pay Directors fees in line with the market in the future.
Further details in relation The Boards target is to declare three quarterly interim to the amendments to the Articles are set out in the dividends of 5.3p for the year to 31 October 2019 and Directors Report.
recommend a final dividend of at least 5.3p for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2020.
Discount, share buybacks and ongoing The final dividend will be reviewed in accordance with charges the Boards desire to continue the long track record of annual dividend increases and the aim of the Company The Company follows a policy that aims, in normal to provide dividend growth ahead of UK inflation over market conditions, to maintain the discount to NAV with the longer term.
borrowings at market value at or below 9%.
The average discount over the year was 8.6%.
As outlined in my statement last year, the Company is less likely to pay discretionary special dividends in future During the year, 2.3m shares were purchased for years but, as the income generated for the year to 31 cancellation at an average discount of 9.3% and a cost October 2018 is substantial, the Board recommends a of 19.5m.
In the previous year, 16.9m shares were special dividend of 4.0p.
purchased, although this included the exit of Aviva from the share register who were generally selling investment trust holdings inherited through its purchase of Friends Amendments to the Articles of Association Life.
Excluding the Aviva transaction, 5.5m shares were As part of the business to be proposed at the Annual purchased in the previous year.
General Meeting, the Board is seeking shareholder approval for the adoption of new Articles of Association, The ongoing charges figure OCF for the year under primarily to take account of legislative changes and review of 0.52% 2017: 0.49% remains favourable developments in market practice.
Certain statutory compared with other actively-managed investment rules governing investment trusts and companies vehicles.
All else being equal, a lower share count were amended in 2012.
In particular, the rule which from buying back shares increases the OCF.
indd 4 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 05 Chairmans Statement continued self-managed investment trust, the OCF represents the The larger than usual number of risks, combined with ongoing costs of running the Company as a proportion the strong performance of equities in recent years, mean of net assets.
We have substantially reduced our costs in that the Company currently has a cautious view about the recent years.
The Board is pleased with the progress made to Gearing transform the investment approach, the increase in After a period of strong performance from markets, the regular dividend and the improvement in the when combined with a seemingly greater than profile of the Company.
It believes that the Company usual number of potentially destabilising events, the is differentiated, cost competitive and an attractive Company reduced gearing to 0% in August.
Prior to investment vehicle focused on delivering above-average this, gearing had been maintained at around 5% for a returns and dividend growth over the longer term.
This proved a timely change in light of the subsequent correction in markets, but we continue to review opportunities to deploy gearing for the long-term benefit of shareholders.
Outlook Politics has changed in recent years.
The consensual James Will politician, driven by focus groups, is a species on the Chairman wane.
Meanwhile, politicians with a greater tendency to 7 December 2018 shoot from the hip and to challenge established norms have been in the ascendancy.
The drivers of this trend are complicated but very important must be the fact that, economically, it has been a poor decade for large sections of the population in a number of countries.
Politicians now seem to have adopted a mantra that the benefits of economic growth must be spread more equally within their own borders whilst eroding their commitments to balance budgets.
Central banks continue a creep towards the normalisation of monetary policy following a long period of crisis measures.
The US Federal Reserve is most advanced in this strategy, but the difficulty of this challenge when debt levels are high is best highlighted by the fact that President Trump has launched hostile tweets criticising its endeavours.
Brexit negotiations remain what best can be described as complex.
We expect any perceived progress to be reflected in the value of sterling.
There are a number of other geopolitical issues that could move markets in either direction, depending on how they develop.
The most obvious concerns are the apparent slowdown in the Chinese economy, the state of relations between the US and China, a debt crisis in Turkey, the actions of the new Italian government and US relations with Iran.
