Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 25 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement It is my great privilege to write to you for the first time as Chairman growth.
This tends to result in a relatively low level of dividend of Scottish Mortgage having taken up the role on 29 June 2017. income for your Company.
Whilst for this financial year our income I joined the Board in 2009 in the fall out of the Global Financial has seen a rise compared with the previous one, it remains low Crisis, when the share price stood at a discount of some 12%.
overall: this years earnings per share were 1.20 pence, up just over Challenging but valuable experience that has informed my 12% on last year 1.07 pence.
contribution over the years albeit a scenario I hope will not be The portfolios earnings would be insufficient to pay a dividend replicated in the foreseeable future!.
equivalent to last years 3.00 pence per share, even taken together My experience at Scottish Mortgage has also included serving with our remaining revenue reserves 0.47 pence per share.
under two Chairmen the late Sir Donald MacKay and John Scottish Mortgages aim is defined in terms of total return.
Scott: that too has been valuable experience for which I am very Shareholders gave overwhelming support at the 2014 AGM for the grateful.
I hope that the current Board and the Managers can do Companys stated intention to be able to supplement the dividend justice to the legacy we have inherited for the continuing benefit of from its distributable capital reserves.
These reserves are all shareholders.
predominantly the realised investment gains.
Long term performance continues to be the yardstick by which The Board understands that many shareholders value the income the Board measures the results of the Managers endeavours for from Scottish Mortgages dividend and it has set out its policy and Scottish Mortgage.
I would encourage all shareholders to focus intentions in this area very clearly in recent years.
The Board has on these figures and it is a pleasure to report that Scottish highlighted that, while returns for Scottish Mortgages shareholders Mortgages long term performance record, measured over the last will predominantly come through capital appreciation, a modest five and ten years, remains very strong and amongst the best in and growing dividend will also be paid.
The Board will continue to the investment trust sector and beyond.
This is true both of the keep the position under review.
The 2017 Interim Report made share price and net asset value NAV returns.
clear that the Board would use the power to supplement the Companys earnings from capital once the revenue reserve was For more than a decade now, the Managers have remained exhausted, in order to do this.
Their consistency and clarity of purpose has proved its value to shareholders over time, despite Given the strength of the long run capital returns and the some exceptionally challenging phases in global financial markets Companys investment objective, together with the clear guidance over that same period.
given in the past, the Board has decided that a modestly increased dividend would be appropriate this year.
This will be paid from a The table below shows the five and ten year total returns for the combination of earnings, the remainder of the revenue reserve and Company to 31 March 2018, alongside the Association of the capital reserve.
The Board is therefore recommending a final Investment Companies AIC Global Sector average for dividend of 1.68 pence per share, providing a total distribution for comparison.
the year of 3.07 pence per share, a year-on-year increase of just Total Return % Five years Ten years over 2%.
NAV 171.6 287.8 Low Cost Share price 184.5 334.7 Put simply, lower charges directly translate into shareholders FTSE All-World Index 73.3 159.4 keeping more of the returns generated from the investment of their capital.
Ensuring that Scottish Mortgage has one of the Global Sector Average NAV 94.1 178.1 lowest cost ratios in the sector remains an important objective of Global Sector Average share price 111.6 218.1 the Board, supported by the Managers.
In addition to using its Source: AIC Morningstar.
NAV after deducting borrowings at fair value growing scale to progressively reduce costs for shareholders for for five years.
NAV after deducting borrowings at par for ten years.
many years now, the management fee has also been revised most recently at the start of this accounting period.
The Earnings and Dividends introduction of a new tiered annual management charge AMC The Board firmly supports the Managers in the single-minded from 1 April 2017 helps to ensure that shareholders will continue pursuit of the investment philosophy to maximise total return from a to reap additional benefits from the Companys growth.
The portfolio of long term investments chosen on a global basis, previous AMC of 0.3% only applies on the first 4 billion of assets enabling the Company to provide capital and dividend growth.
under management and thereafter it falls to 0.25%.
I am delighted They have created a portfolio of the very best long term growth to report that as a result, for the financial year to 31 March 2018, companies from around the world, both listed and unlisted.
One Scottish Mortgages Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR fell to 0.37%, common characteristic of many of these businesses is the retention down from 0.44% the previous year.
This is an almost 16% and investment of most if not all of their earnings to support future reduction on what was already one of the lowest cost ratios in the sector.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report The Board has also decided that it would be appropriate to revise held in Brighton and there are two more to come, in London in the allocation of the management and borrowing costs to reflect June and in Manchester in October.
Further details can be found better the split of returns between capital and income.
From at the back of this Report, on page 73, and on the Companys 1 April 2018, all of these costs will be allocated to capital.
a change from the current allocation of 75 per cent to capital and Gearing and Borrowing Policy 25 per cent to revenue.
The total costs will not be affected by this The Board of Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the change in accounting treatment and the distinction is somewhat strategic use of borrowings for the Company, in the belief that arbitrary given the changing nature of investment returns, as gearing the portfolio in this way will enhance the long term returns discussed in recent years and above.
The Board views this as a significant advantage Investment Strategy of the investment trust structure.
As I highlighted at the start, two distinctive aspects of Scottish As previously announced, in April 2017 the Board took the Mortgage are the clarity of its investment proposition and the opportunity to lock in borrowings of 125 million in long term, fixed consistency with which it has been applied.
The Board continues rate, senior, unsecured private placement notes, denominated in to believe that these clearly differentiate Scottish Mortgage in a sterling through the private placement debt market.
This was crowded field, where many talk a good game but where far fewer achieved at a blended rate of a little over 3 per cent.
have consistently lived up to the inherent challenges of long term As a result of the continued strength of the portfolios investment.
The statement of the Managers Core Investment performance, particularly of the publicly listed companies, the Beliefs has been included within the Annual Report and Financial gearing level continued to fall over this financial year.
The impact Statements, on page 17 for the last 5 years.
This year, Tom Slater of growth on the level of gearing is clearly illustrated in the table has also reviewed this in his section of the report.
I would urge all on the ten year record of Capital on page 25.
The level of debt shareholders and those considering making an investment to read has increased by only 10% as compared to a three-fold increase both these pieces and James Andersons report.
Given current market costs of borrowing, the Board is Opportunities to Learn More About of the view that the appropriate level of gearing is higher than the Scottish Mortgage current level as at the end of March 2018.
The Board has therefore taken steps to increase the Companys borrowings.
The Board and Managers believe it is important that all These have included organising to borrow further funds in the shareholders and prospective investors are able to develop a private placement market, once again to lock in attractive long clear understanding of the investment approach taken for the term borrowing rates.
Further announcements will be made when Company.
One of the best ways to do this is to hear directly from those responsible for the management of your investment.
The Liquidity Companys Annual General Meeting AGM is held in Edinburgh The Companys shares continue to benefit from a good level of and this year it will be at the Merchants Hall, at 4.30pm on liquidity on the London Stock Exchange.
As is always the case, not only will shareholders Company has continued to support this liquidity in normal market be able to vote on the resolutions for the management of the conditions through the operation of its long standing liquidity Company and question the Directors, but the joint managers will policy, which is set out on page 7. present on the portfolio and also take shareholders questions.
Over the twelve months to 31 March 2018, the company issued I hope as many of you as possible will be able to attend.
50.8 million shares from Treasury and bought back 14.0 million Recognising that not everyone will be able to attend the AGM, the shares resulting in a net inflow of 145 million.
The level of net Managers have invested considerable resources in developing issuance was illustrative of the strength of demand for Scottish other opportunities for investors to hear their views and learn Mortgage over the period.
about the investment approach taken.
There is a large amount of Corporate Brokers information on the Company and the portfolio available through the Companys website: www.
The corporate brokers are instrumental in applying the liquidity policy, and the new arrangements which took effect from the start More recently, the Managers have created an additional site, of this financial year have been very effective, which is testimony www.
com which looks at the broader context to Cenkos Securities plc and Jefferies Hoare Govett operating around the portfolio companies and explores issues around the well as joint brokers.
responsible use of investment capital and the financial industry.
There is a related Resolute Optimism twitter feed @SMTOptimism Outlook which flags new articles on the Resolute Optimism site and also In considering the outlook at the start of this financial year, my highlights interesting external pieces of news and information, predecessor John Scott noted, a number of political risks, from thought-provoking commentaries and events.
President Trumps unpredictable approach to policy making, to Further, in recent years the Managers have hosted a series of questions over North Koreas true intentions, to the escalation of Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums around the country to ensure the troubles in the Middle East...
Sadly those political risks that more investors have the opportunity to hear from them remain the same today.
However the task of the Board also directly.
The 2017 Forums in Birmingham, York and London were remains the same, as John noted: to consider the outlook in the all very well attended.
The first Forum of 2018 has already been context of the portfolio of Scottish Mortgage... Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Strategic Report To have been unduly focused on the headline topics 12 months to any success will be smooth.
Progress is almost always bumpy ago might have led an investor to miss the importance of the and stock markets tend to exacerbate these swings.
There will be extraordinary operational growth which was taking place at a times when share prices diverge from company fundamentals and number of the worlds largest companies.
during such periods the companies in Scottish Mortgages portfolio may fall out of favour.
No attempt will be made to The Board believes the following areas to be amongst the most mitigate short-term volatility and the Board will continue to stand relevant considerations for the long term prospects for Scottish resolutely behind the Managers during such times.
Mortgage: Whatever the precise trajectory of stock markets turns out to be 1.
The continual rise and development of China, in particular of over the coming years, the Board and the Managers strongly its world leading digital economy.
believe that attractive long term returns continue to be available to 2.
The spread across all industries of the gathering and those who can turn time to their advantage.
Scottish Mortgage computer-facilitated use of data.
offers investors the potential to share in the value created by some of the best growth businesses in the world over the coming 3.
The structural shifts in the global healthcare industry and the decade, in new or old industries and whether they be public or industrialisation of biology.
The long run shift in much of the transportation infrastructure Finally, in addition to thanking my Board colleagues for their to electric and autonomous vehicles.
diligence over the year and James Anderson and Tom Slater for 5.
Shifts in energy generation to renewable sources and the their insight and continuing success for shareholders, I would like proliferation of energy storage solutions for domestic and to thank our professional advisers and the teams at Baillie Gifford commercial use.
that provide the support necessary to best look after your 6.
Greater social, political and regulatory scrutiny of large interests, and you, the shareholders, for your continued support.
The approach of the Managers, focused on the long term fundamental characteristics of businesses, favours the selection of companies which are adopting the advances in technology to Fiona McBain enable them to provide what their customers want or need.
This Chairman should offer the potential for durable growth in the long run.
22 May 2018 However, the above should not be taken to suggest that the path Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
