Chairmans Statement 2018 Highlights Underlying Trading Profit of 93m, an increase of 34%.
Order intake of 2.9bn, a book-to-bill ratio of over 100%.
Two acquisitions completed and integrated during the year.
Strong balance sheet, with reduced leverage and refinancing completed.
Positive engagement in the public debate Sir Roy Gardner regarding public services provision.
Chairman Further development of the Board, governance and effectiveness.
After a defining year of progress in 2018, positive outlook for 2019 and beyond.
Sercos purpose is to be a trusted partner of governments, providing superb public services that transform outcomes and 2018 has been a defining year of make a positive difference for our fellow citizens, whilst delivering attractive returns to our shareholders and rewarding progress in delivering Sercos careers to our employees.
Our approach to achieving this is turnaround, and marks an inflection through aspiring to be the best-managed company in our sector, and concentrating on doing four things really well: point for our business.
We are moving winning good business: executing brilliantly: being a place through the Transform stage to the people are proud to work: and being profitable and Grow stage as planned, whilst also sustainable.
We have done well in 2018 against these objectives.
I am proud of the work we do and of the progress taking the opportunity to shape being made.
Delivering our plan In 2015, following an operating loss of 1.3bn in 2014 and major issues with our largest customer, new management set out a We have stabilised revenue, and, after several three-stage plan for Serco: Stabilise, Transform, Grow.
Stabilisation was largely completed in 2015 with the recruitment years of decline, in 2018 we substantially of a new management team, recapitalisation of the business increased profits, generated positive free cash and delivery of a corporate renewal programme.
flow and maintained a strong balance sheet.
Transformation then started in earnest, and will continue through 2019 while also ensuring it is embedded as business Improving service delivery for our customers as usual.
2018 has marked the start of delivering the third and operational performance has also been phase Growth with Underlying Trading Profit increasing for pleasing, including driving further cost the first time in five years.
efficiencies and excellent progress in I am pleased to report that in 2018 we made progress on a expanding the value of our contract order number of fronts.
First, we had another year of very strong book.
Effective risk management and order intake, at 2.9bn.
This represents a book-to-bill ratio the intake value of contracts we add to the order book compared governance also remains at the heart of to how much revenue we are billing our customers of over securing our future success.
Our closing order book now stands at 12.0bn the highest level since 2013.
The strong order intake underlines the progress we have made developing our customer propositions and business development skills.
It also reflects the benefit of the balance of our business internationally and proof of our geographic reach, with around 80% of our intake in 2018 coming from customers outside the UK, the second successive year our order intake has been very largely from markets outside the UK.
| 06 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Secondly, we have delivered significant growth in Underlying Looking beyond 2019, the rate of margin improvement Trading Profit which increased by 34% from 69.3m to 93.1m, and profit growth will increasingly depend on our ability to an outcome considerably better than our initial guidance of grow revenues, and the recent increase in our order book around 80m.
Revenue reduced 4% to 2,837m, but was and some very large contract wins since the start of 2019 give broadly flat on an organic constant currency basis in the second us confidence that we can do so.
The Strategy Review half of the year.
The profit improvement includes a strong announced in March 2015 set out a long-term ambition that the operating performance together with good progress on business could grow in line with a market which had historically transformation savings and other cost efficiencies, notably from grown at 5-7% a year and had enabled peers to achieve merging the UK operations into a single entity, as well as margins of 5-6%.
Our plan for increasing margin which at its further reducing our other central support costs.
lowest was 2.3% in 2017 when Underlying Trading Profit was 69.3m was predicated on three factors: first, reducing costs Thirdly, Serco executed two acquisitions during the year, as a percentage of sales: second, containing losses on onerous buying a small US business specialising in the repair and contracts and converting a number of them into profitable maintenance of complex naval radio and radar systems, and contracts on rebid: and, thirdly, increasing margins by growing buying from the liquidator of Carillion plc six contracts to profitable revenues whilst keeping overheads constant or provide facilities management services to the NHS: the reducing them further.
acquisition of these contracts added 700m to our order book.
The fact that we were able to execute these two acquisitions We remain on track with our plan to reduce costs.
With regard underlines the progress we have made over the last few years.
to reducing the losses on OCP contracts, the recent award of the asylum seeker accommodation contracts will give a major Fourthly, net debt at the end of the year was 188m, also better boost as we move from significant losses under the old than our guidance at the start of the year.
There is a muchprogramme to new contracts that are expected to be reduced need for debt in the business, and to that end we profitable.
However, demand in the UK, which is our largest successfully refinanced our Revolving Credit Facility during market, is growing more slowly than its former trend rate, if at the year and with the terms and conditions substantially all, which we believe is largely as a result of Brexit being a unchanged.
distraction to Government having the normal amount of parliamentary time to progress other agendas such as public Finally, following the collapse of Carillion in January 2018 and service development.
Recent research we have done indicates the well-publicised difficulties of other suppliers in the sector, that across all our segments and geographies, the current we engaged energetically in the public debate around the blended rate of growth is around 2-3%, largely as a result of the provision of public services by private companies.
In last years slowdown in the UK market.
Given the fact that just under half Annual Report, we proposed Four Principles for the our sales are in the UK, we see little likelihood that blended governance of public sector outsourcing.
Shortly after, the UK rates of growth across our markets will increase much beyond Government established a process to review the way it this in the immediate future, unless Brexit itself stimulates interacts with private service providers.
This has been a very significant additional demand.
Longer term, we see no reason constructive process, run by the Cabinet Office and involving why market growth rates should not revert to the historic levels the supply side as well.
Our Four Principles have provided, we of growth we foresaw in our 2015 Strategy Review, particularly believe, an important contribution to the development of given the enduring pressures on governments to relentlessly policy, as well as playing a part in moderating the tone of public improve value for money and the quality of service provision, debate and establishing Serco as a thoughtful contributor to which we believe are also attractive structural growth drivers the debate including appearing multiple times in front of for increased use of private sector delivery through Parliamentary Committees.
I am also delighted to mark the outsourcing.
re-launch of the Serco Institute as a platform on which those interested in the delivery of public services can put forward Notwithstanding a weaker outlook for market growth, we still their ideas.
believe in the longer term that we will be able to achieve our margin target of 5% and hopefully beyond.
Even quite small You can read more about all of these points in the Chief levels of revenue growth will have a noticeable effect on Executives Review on pages 20 to 27. margins if we can keep overheads flat or reducing.
Unless unforeseen headwinds or contract losses occur, we expect Looking ahead Sercos revenue growth to shift to being ahead of the market As we look ahead to 2019, we expect Underlying Trading Profit given the improvement in our order intake.
The recent wins of to grow further to be approximately 105m, on revenues the AASC asylum seekers contract at 1.9bn the largest increasing to 2.9-3.0bn.
Since the second half of 2016, we have contract we have ever been awarded and National Garrison been making progress on increasing our profit margin a key Health Services in Australia support our confidence of deliverable of successfully implementing our strategy and in achieving 3-4% revenue growth in 2019.
The benefit of these 2019 we expect that further margin and profit progress will be two contracts into the following year, along with other previous driven largely by transformation savings, together with the start wins that become operational that year such as Clarence of revenue growth from new and expanding contracts.
Correctional Centre formerly known as Grafton and the Australian icebreaker vessel, lead us to expect revenue growth to improve to around 5% in 2020.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 07 Chairmans Statement continued Our Board Dividends Sercos Board has seen considerable change since I became The Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend in Chairman in July 2015.
In considering new members of the respect of the 2018 financial year.
The Boards appraisal of Board, we have been determined to have a mix of backgrounds the appropriateness of dividend payments takes into account and experience to ensure that we have a balanced, dynamic the Groups underlying earnings, cash flows and financial and effective Board.
leverage, together with the requirement to maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover and the prevailing market In November, Mike Clasper, Senior Independent Nonoutlook.
Although the Board is committed to resuming Executive Director, notified the Board of his intention to dividend payments as soon as it judges it prudent to do so, in stand down with effect from 31 December 2018.
John Rishton, assessing whether we should resume dividend payments in who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2016, respect of 2018, we are mindful of the fact that 2019 is the last assumed the role of Senior Independent Director and joined year of significant outflows of cash related to OCPs and the Nomination Committee from 1 January 2019.
Kirsty operating exceptional costs, which together will mean that Bashforth, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director net debt is likely to increase again 2019, albeit modestly.
The of Serco in 2017, has replaced Mike as Chair of the Corporate Board will continue to keep the dividend policy under careful Responsibility Committee.
I would like to thank Mike for his and regular consideration as we progress with completing support as the Senior Independent Director and, on behalf of the transformation stage and driving forward with the growth the Board, for the extensive contribution he has made to the stage of our strategy.
Company since joining in early 2014, a period during which the Board of Serco has had to deal with significant challenges.
Securing our future success I would also like to welcome John to the role of Senior Your Board is absolutely focused on long-term, sustainable Independent Director, a position for which his immense shareholder value creation, and doing so by promoting the experience makes him well qualified.
best interests of shareholders alongside those of our employees, customers, and the societies and communities I was delighted to welcome Eric Born, who joined the Board as in which we work.
Serco has a clear strategy to complete and a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and embed the transformation of the business and position it for Corporate Responsibility Committees on 1 January 2019. long-term success in its markets, and is on track to achieve this Eric has considerable international, strategic and operational through a highly effective executive management team and a experience and will add to the strength and breadth of the committed workforce that cares passionately about public Board.
The background and experience of each Director are service delivery.
detailed in the Directors Report on pages 84 to 85 and details of the selection process to the appointments are set out in the We have made excellent progress in recent years turning the Nomination Committee Report on page 100. business around from its nadir in 2014, and I am delighted to report that in 2018 Serco is now growing its profits, has vastly We have continued in 2018 to further develop the effectiveness improved its operational delivery, has a growing order book, a of our governance, operational resilience and organisational strong balance sheet, and has re-established its reputation with change processes.
Your Board has also been actively involved in its customers.
evaluating individual bids and contracts based on their size or risk profile, as well as meeting regularly with senior management I would like to thank all colleagues in the business for their responsible for the delivery of the Companys key operations efforts in achieving a very successful 2018, and for their and for the development of new business.
Board members continued support in helping Serco to be a superb provider often visit contracts and meet with members of the wider of public services that we can all be proud of.
management team, and Non-Executives participate in our Oxford University Serco Management training course, which is attended by around 30 managers and runs four times a year.
I am pleased to report that we have fully complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2018.
Sir Roy Gardner This has included conducting an externally-led Board Chairman evaluation, which was deferred in 2017 given that three new 20 February 2019 Non-Executive Directors had joined that year, and so was carried out later in 2018.
The Board believes that strong governance is a vital component in the long-term success of the Company: further detail on our structures and processes, including recommendations from the Board evaluation, are set out in our Corporate Governance Report on pages 83 to 138, as well as the Committee reports.
| 08 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
