Strategic report Chairmans statement PROVIDING RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP High levels of customer service create financial rewards.
This means we are able to share the benefits of our work with shareholders as well as with our customers and other stakeholders.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Dividend per share Group turnover Group profit beforeinterest and tax 86.55p 1,694.1m 528.4m 2017: 81.50p 2017: 1,638.0m 2017: 536.7m 12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information This has been a good year for our customers and therefore for Our investors too have benefited through our base dividend Severn Trent.
Our operational performance is discussed in commitment of growth at RPI 4%, and this has all been achieved detail in our Chief Executives statement.
Here, I want to take whilst maintaining asustainable, resilient financial structure.
the opportunity to look at the bigger picture by highlighting We delivered a 3.4% increase in Group turnover to the improvements we have made to customers lives in the 1,694.1 million, Group PBIT of 528.4 million, down 1.5% from last 25 years and to underline our commitment to running the prior year, and underlying basic earnings per share of aresponsible business.
121.0pence, up 4.6% from the prior year.
Water services in England and Wales have been transformed for We are therefore proposing a final dividend of 51.92 pence per the better over the last 25 years leakage is down by over a third share to be paid on 20th July 2018.
This will take the total dividend since its peak in 1994 95, service quality is up, as evidenced by a for the year to 86.55 pence.
65% reduction in written complaints since its peak in 2007 08 and environmental performance is unrecognisable from that which Your Board we inherited from the nationalised industry in 1989, with an 86% Emma FitzGerald stepped down from her position as a Director reduction in serious pollution incidents in England and Wales.
On behalf of the Board, I thank her for her insight, These changes have not happened by accident: they are the direct professionalism and dedication.
It has been a privilege to work result of the near doubling of investment that has been pumped alongside her.
into the sector since privatisation.
We have worked with regulators to successfully realign At Severn Trent, we have played a major role in this stepour English and Welsh licences along national boundaries.
change, investing 21 billion in todays money in infrastructure From 1 July 2018, all our Welsh interests will sit under a single improvements over the last quarter of a century.
We are proud licence, and we will rebrand Dee Valley Water as Hafren of the achievements that this investment has generated for our Dyfrdwy after the two main rivers which supply the region.
They drink and wash in cleaner water, experience Hafren Dyfrdwy will serve the interests of all our Welsh fewer supply interruptions and floods, and enjoy healthier and customers, and we are pleased to have made positive progress more pleasant surroundings, all thanks to our work.
At the same to ensure the robust governance of that company through the time, and despite the huge capital investments we have made, appointment to its Board of three new independent non-executive we have been able to keep prices down.
This last year, as in the directors with a wealth of experience in business, public services previous seven years, theaverage price paid by a customer in and Welsh public policy.
I am delighted that they all enhance the the Severn Trent region was the lowest anywhere in England already diverse make up of our business.
A diverse team doing great work Our team is absolutely committed to continuing this good Severn Trents people are a significant asset.
We have a fantastic work and a key aspect of that is demonstrating the highest team here who worked tirelessly through the year, often in severe standards of governance and behaviour.
Our values of: putting weather conditions, to deliver extraordinary service.
They are customers first: creating an awesome place to work: being rightly proud of both their efforts and the outcomes.
passionate about what we do: acting with integrity: and protecting our environment sit right at the heart of our decision It is important that the makeup of our workforce is representative making.
We fully support the governance changes that the of the communities we serve.
So I am pleased to report that regulator and Government wish to see indeed, as a listed 21% of the 124 graduates, placement students and apprentices company these standards of transparency and responsible who joined us during the year came from black or minority behaviour are already in place at Severn Trent: we are prudent ethnic backgrounds.
We are also mindful of the role that in how we manage financial risk and even-handed in the way gender diversity plays in supporting a successful team.
we share the returns from our outperformance with customers The representation of women on our Board led to us again being and shareholders: we pay our taxes in full and on time: recognised by the Hampton-Alexander Review in 2017, which wepay dividends and executive salaries that are reasonable placed us second among FTSE 100 companies for representation and sustainable and linked to the delivery of outcomes to of women on boards and in leadership.
In addition, 40% of the customers: avoid complex offshore financial vehicles: and members of our Executive Committee are female and, at 2.4%, wecommunicate progress on all of these matters in the our mean hourly pay gap is one of the lowest in the FTSE index.
AnnualReport which we provide to stakeholders and to the Looking ahead public at large on our website every year.
We are now working hard to continue to position the business Having strong and transparent corporate governance is the forsuccess during the next regulatory period.
Our draft business right way to carry out our activities.
It will ensure the long-term plans are well advanced and will be submitted to Ofwat in sustainability of our business and reinforce our legitimacy in the September 2018.
We look forward to continuing to outperform eyes of the communities we serve.
against our service commitments through the rest of this AMP Sharing the rewards and into the next.
Under our industrys regulatory regime, high levels of customer service create financial rewards.
This means we are able to share the benefits of our work with shareholders as well as with customers and other stakeholders.
In this five year period we are reinvesting 220 million of Totex outperformance back into our business, with a further 120 million of outperformance Andrew Duff, Chairman being shared with customers in the form of lower bills in AMP7.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
