Strategic report Overview Chairmans statement Our results this year once again demonstrate the resilient qualities of our portfolio, our strategy and our experienced management.
A key ingredient of our success is our transparent and sociallyresponsible culture, which pervades every aspect of our governance arrangements and how we behave.
Reflecting our long investment horizon, decisions are made based on long-term benefits and rewards, rather than being focused on short-term gains.
We take a holistic approach both to our business and the areas in which we choose to invest, which benefits all who visit the West End as well as the important local community.
We are committed to sustainability in the management of our portfolio of mainly older buildings, extending their economic useful lives through use change and sympathetic refurbishment, as well as minimising the environmental impact of both our activities and those of our occupiers.
Our teams experience and forensic knowledge of our West End locations, and the local investment and occupier market, are invaluable to both the delivery of our strategy and its evolution.
Our staff development and succession plans are ensuring we maintain a broad and growing range of skills to address the future needs of the business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to Over 32 years, we have assembled an  thank the team for their outstanding commitment and contribution portfolio in the heart of Londons West End.
Our focus on to our progress this year.
delivering long-term growth in rental income, achieved with modest capital expenditure, underpins our record of sustained, After serving nearly nine years as a non-executive director, sector-leading returns to investors.
Our approach was honed in Hilary Riva will retire from the Board at the AGM in February the severe property-sector recession of the early 1990s, and the 2019.
We all thank Hilary for her excellent contribution, counsel resilience it brings to our business was tested and proven in the and guidance over the past nine years.
We expect to appoint a global financial downturn of 2007 to 2010. new non-executive director shortly.
1 Reflecting the growth in our EPRA earnings this year, the Board With the exceptional qualities of our portfolio, the expertise of is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 8.5p, bringing the our team and a strong balance sheet, I am confident we are well total dividends for the year to 16.8p, an increase in rate per share placed to navigate the challenges which may lie ahead and take of 5.0%.
The total distribution for the year will be 51.6 million.
advantage of the opportunities which inevitably will arise.
Over the past ten years the compound annual growth rate in 1 EPRA earnings and dividends per share has been 7.2% and 7.0% respectively.
A long-term investment strategy, such as ours, needs to be Jonathan Nicholls supported by stable, long-term finances.
In December 2017 we Chairman raised 260.4 million, net of expenses, through a placing of new 26 November 2018 equity.
This well-supported share issue has ensured we have committed resources to continue to invest in, and take advantage of, opportunities to grow the business, whilst avoiding the risks inherent in excessive debt leverage.
The proceeds are now fully deployed or earmarked for investment.
