Chairmans statement I am pleased to be able to report that the People review fundamentally concluded that this The Board is confident I would like to thank all employees of SIG has been a much more functional and that the Group will continue to for their commitment and resilience in effective Board in the last year and that it what has been a year of significant change.
comprises committed, experienced and deliver improving operational and I believe that their efforts have delivered perceptive individuals.
financial performance as a result a step change in operational and financial Further details of the evaluation, including performance as the year progressed and of its ongoing transformation.
areas for improvement, are set out on pages they have laid a strong foundation for the 68 to 89 of the Corporate Governance report.
further development of the Group in 2019 and beyond.
Chris Geoghegan stepped down early in 2018, and Mel Ewell also retired after Following the appointment of Meinie many years of service.
I would like to thank Oldersma and Nick Maddock in 2017, we both Chris and Mel for their significant have worked to strengthen the senior Delivering shareholder contributions over a challenging period.
We welcomed David value During the year, Alan Lovell joined the Board Walmsley as Managing Director of SIG as our new Senior Independent Director.
In Distribution in March, Guy Bruce as As a Board, we recognise that sustained addition, the Board was pleased to welcome Managing Director of SIG Exteriors in July, reduction in the level of debt continues to be Cyrille Ragoucy.
These new appointments Ralf Hellwig as Managing Director of SIG a key priority for the Groups shareholders.
add extensive construction industry and Germany in October and Julien Monteiro I am pleased to report that net debt has turnaround experience to the Board.
as Managing Director of SIG France in come sharply downward in the past year to December, as well as appointing our Group its lowest level since 2014 of 189.4m 2017: Janet Ashdown, a Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer, Christian Horn, as 258.7m, leading to a reduction in headline and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Executive Chairman of our Air Handling financial leverage from 2.3x last year to 1.7x will retire from the Board at the conclusion business, leading the delivery of value this year.
Coupled with an improvement in of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting creation across this division of business.
underlying earnings per share from 8.6p in on 8 May 2019.
On behalf of the Board, I With these key appointments, we now have 2017 to 9.3p this year, this has delivered a would like to thank Janet for her significant the right leadership structure in place to marked improvement in ROCE, up to 10.3% contribution and dedication over the last drive the business forward.
this year from 9.3% last year, moving the eight years.
We wish her well for the future.
business towards its medium term target The search for a new Non-Executive Director Outlook of 15%.
and Chair of Remuneration Committee is The Group brings considerable financial well advanced and an announcement will As a result of the positive impact seen to benefits into 2019 and the delivery of a step be made in due course.
I am confident that date from the business transformation, change in performance in SIG Distribution SIG has an extremely bright future, and and our confidence in the further benefits has given us confidence to accelerate the look forward to leading the Board as we to come, the Board recommends payment pace of transformation in other major complete the transformation of this Group.
of a final dividend for the year of 2.50p per Group businesses.
Trading conditions share 2017: 2.50p per share, bringing the remain challenging, with the outlook in Health and safety total dividend for the year to 3.75p per share many of our end markets uncertain, and The Group consolidated the risk 2017: 3.75p per share, in line with the the Group expects continuing like-for-like management elements of its Zero Groups target of 2-3x underlying sales declines in the first part of the year.
Harm policy, and Life Saving Rules were earnings cover.
Notwithstanding these headwinds, the implemented on topics such as drugs and margin and cost actions taken in 2018 Governance and Board alcohol, the provision and wearing of antigive us good visibility of further significant cut gloves, working from lorry beds and I am a firm believer in doing business the progress in the current year.
While much forklift truck safe operations.
right way, taking account of the interests of work remains to be done, our delivery in all our stakeholders, in order to deliver long 2018 and the momentum brought into 2019 Despite this continuing work, and increased term sustainable value for shareholders.
confirm that our transformation of SIG is on management attention, the overall health Your Board is committed to the highest track.
and safety performance of the Group, as possible standards of corporate governance, seen through the Accident and Incident Andrew Allner which is essential to the effective running of Rate, did not improve year-on-year.
remain committed to fostering an exemplary 7 March 2019 health and safety culture in SIG, which we Last year I carried out a review of Board intend to drive in 2019 through a focus on effectiveness following my appointment eliminating the causes of the most serious as Chairman.
This year, we appointed accidents, and increased expectations for an external consultant, Condign Board managers on health and safety leadership.
Consulting, to undertake a review of Board effectiveness.
We also focused on ensuring that market perception of our progress remains aligned with the rapid pace of transformation we are currently seeing across our Group.
04 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 BUSINESS OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW 05 www.
