Chairmans statement As we continue to generate strong returns, we are able to make an ever-growing contribution to the countries and communities in which we operate.
This year we collected and paid 1.8 billion in total taxes.
In total, we generate around 4.8 billion in tax revenues, and proudly employ over 31,000 people while supporting a further 216,800 jobs throughout Europe Oxford Economics 2017.
Our Sky Ocean Rescue campaign, which launched over a year ago, has contributed to making the matter of ocean health and plastic pollution an issue of national importance.
Skys efforts in raising awareness and taking action have been recognised by world leaders and policy makers and we are using our skills and experience to attract high-profile partners to this important cause.
Additionally, in March we launched Sky Ocean Ventures, our impact investment vehicle, to accelerate breakthrough and scalable ideas to help solve the ocean plastic crisis and James Murdoch encourage responsible consumption.
Chairman Im proud to announce that we have exceeded our target of reducing our carbon emissions intensity by 50% two years early and, together with our pledge to remove all single-use plastics At a time of significant change in our industry, Sky has from our operations by 2020, we are proving our commitment continued to strengthen its position as Europes leading to building a better and more sustainable business.
direct-to-consumer media and entertainment business.
As you know, Sky remains in an extended offer period, having We have more ways than ever before to reach customers received firm offers from 21st Century Fox and Comcast to and let them access their favourite content in whichever acquire the business.
Skys Independent Directors led by our way they choose.
At the same time, were using our Deputy Chairman, Martin Gilbert, have conduct over the offer European footprint to make a significant positive process.
Sky shareholders, who will have the final say, continue impact in the communities in which we operate.
to be kept fully informed.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my We have once again delivered on our strategy to give customers colleagues for delivering another strong performance and the best and broadest range of content, market-leading product remaining focused throughout the year.
The talent of our innovation and excellent front-line customer service, while at people means we continue to find more ways to improve the the same time constantly improving our operational capability customer offer and drive the growth of this great business.
Additionally, we have continued to open up new opportunities for growth by capitalising on the strength of the Sky brand, developing new services and entering additional geographic James Murdoch, Chairman markets.
This year, weve taken Sky Q, Europes best home and entertainment service, into our main territories, have made the Sky service available without a satellite dish for the first time and have launched pay-as-you-go streaming services in both Spain and Switzerland.
The success of our approach is demonstrated in the strength of our financial performance, with strong revenue and profit growth delivered again this year.
Our 23 million households are now taking over 63 million products from us and we reach over 120 million people across Europe.
