Strategic Report Chairmans letter RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT Dear Shareholders, Sirius has made a long-term commitment to farmer education with the foundation of It is with great pleasure that I introduce this effort being our ongoing research and Sirius Minerals 2018 Annual Report.
The guidance 2018has been a year of significant and recommendations we provide to progressfor Sirius.
The transformation farmers, supported by our crop trials, ofour development sites and the rate can improve productivity and efficiency for atwhich construction has advanced is farmers, which in turn can help to increase impressive and is testament to the hard food production and profitability and work and commitment of our employees enhance sustainability.
More than 900 people arenow employed on the Project, During 2018, we initiated a totalof 110 new demonstrating the transformational trials across 21 countries and 32 crops.
Our potential for jobs and growth that the trials continue to demonstrate, in line with Project provides to the local area.
previous trials, thatPOLY4 increases crop yields and quality compared to existing Strong construction performance has fertilizer practice in a range of conditions.
beenmirrored by further success in Our trials also demonstrate that POLY4 thesales and marketing of POLY4.
canprovide anumber of environmental Our aggregate peak contracted supply benefits, such as improved soil conditions, agreements for POLY4 now stands at greenhouse gas emission reductions and 10.7 Mtpa.
To have established long-term, sustainable intensification higher yield trusted relationships with some of the froma lower land use.
worlds leading fertilizer blending and distribution companies truly validates Our sustainable credentials are further themarket potential of our unique demonstrated by POLY4s CO emissions 2 RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW POLY4product.
in production, which are expected to be CHAIRMAN low compared to otherfertilizer products.
Moreover, our minimal, non-chemical A responsible approach processing methods are expected to to creatingvalue have a lower environmental impact than Through the large-scale supply Responsibility to the environment and the many other multi-nutrient fertilizer of POLY4, Sirius will make a social and economic sustainability of the production methods.
communities in which we operate is one of significant and sustainable Our research continues to show that POLY4 our core values.
Our approach is built on contribution to global food has the potential tomake a significant impact the belief that the Companys success goes security and weare already in the future ofglobal food security and can hand in hand with the economic, social and working with arange of achieve thiswith a significantly lower environmental sustainability of the stakeholders to promote better environmental impact than many other communities in which we work.
agricultural practices across fertilizers used today.
Environment the world Communities Facilitating the transition to a more By maintaining a high level of engagement sustainable agricultural sector is a key with our local communities, we aim to focusfor Sirius.
Over the next 35 years maintain confidence in the positive and more food needs tobe produced than has active contribution we make to the local area.
been produced to date in human history.
We believe our success should be shared In order to feed the planets growing with the local communities in which we population there is a global need to adopt operate and we have committed to provide sustainable farming practices that boost significant funding for environmental crop yields whilst using less land and schemes within the local area via our S106 mitigating environmental impact.
Through agreement with the North York Moors the large-scale supply of POLY4, Sirius National Park NYMNP authority and the will make asignificant and sustainable surrounding borough councils.
Over the next contribution toglobal food security and 40 years we expect to contribute we are already working with a range of approximately 100 million to the local area.
stakeholders to promote better agricultural practices across the world.
On a national scale, a recent independent study estimated that the Project will make a direct contribution to GDP of over 2.3 billion every year at full production.
This is the equivalent of permanently adding up to 17% to the economic output of North Yorkshire.
6 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information People We require a skilled and engaged workforce to deliver our ambitious growth plans.
In 2018, the Group focused on activities to Over everything else inform, engage and empower the wider Project team, including the construction we prioritise the safety workforce, to help create a sense of of our workforce personal responsibility for the part they play in the teams collective success.
Through our focused efforts, we have successfully sourced approximately two-thirds of our total workforce from the local area.
We are very proud of this achievement.
At full production, we expect 1,000 high skilled jobs to be created, with an additional 1,500 in the supply chain.
We expect 1,700 jobs to be created at peak construction.
Our long-term target is to source 80% of our direct workforce from the local area.
Over everything else we prioritise the safety of our workforce.
As the workforce has grown throughout 2018, the Group has continued to invest in activities designed tostrengthen the Companys culture and focus on keeping our people safe.
900 Positioning for the future Our strategy now is to focus on financing PEOPLE CURRENTLY the construction of our world-class asset EMPLOYED inorder to deliver value to shareholders.
As we move through this critical phase inour Companys development I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees and partners for their ongoing 1700 contribution towards delivering on our strategy to build our world-class, long-life, JOBS AT PEAK low-cost production facility and to build CONSTRUCTION asuccessful market for POLY4.
Thank you for your continued support.
100m PAYMENTS TO THE LOCAL AREA OVER 40 YEARS Russell Scrimshaw Chairman 2.3bn ANNUAL DIRECT CONTRIBUTION TOGDP AT FULL PRODUCTION Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 7
