12 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUILDING A BUSINESS FIT FOR THE FUTURE Building sustainable competitive advantage requires the right combination of world-class operating excellence, innovation, growth and people development.
This is what we have been pursuing at Smiths.
I have traditionally used these statements As we all know, Smiths was in a very creation objective always runs out of to outline a management philosophy similar position for many years.
roadway unless a company finds new targeted at building sustainable ways of achieving organic growth.
Immediate and consistent financial competitive advantage and higher levels If not, earnings and returns plateau success were the two historical objectives of organic growth.
So I will continue and stock prices stagnate, except of most companies.
The more enlightened that tradition this year.
I will expand on for the incremental market growth companies stayed the course of finding a a few of these management concepts in offered by the particular local market.
better balance between the present and greater detail in this statement and also And I stress again that the growth we the future and between stronger organic briefly report on our progress in FY2018.
seek is primarily organic growth, not just growth and margin enhancement.
But the Chief Executive Andy Reynolds Smith acquisitive growth.
intense short-term pressures often led will expand on this topic in his section of management teams to compromise The real danger that emerges when a this report.
Ive previously defined our and invest less than they should in the company pushes margins unnaturally approach to growth as an everybody wins future.
The outcome was stagnation, high, is that it produces unhappy strategy.
My goal in all these statements and slowly decreasing competitiveness.
customers who see the companys is to be informative, helpful and factual However, despite the merits of achieving financial reports and think the profit in describing how the Company thinks higher levels of organic growth, lets sharing is unfair.
It also becomes the about its products and markets, the value not deceive ourselves: changing from a birthplace of new competition that is it ascribes to people, how it competes and management philosophy of squeeze the attracted by the magnet of high margins.
how it intends to be sustainable.
lemon harder to another of stimulating Thats less of a problem if the high In terms of the details of our approach organic growth through innovation margin is driven by growth that is born of to creating new shareholder value in can be a tricky exercise in performing innovation.
Companies with a combination the Smiths business, little has changed while transforming.
of high growth and low margin, or of low from my Chairmans statement last year.
growth and high margin, are ultimately As I mentioned in last years Chairmans Referring back to the days of the great destined to pivot toward a rebalance Statement, the laboratory of life teaches British industrialists in the 1970s and because neither one of these two us that various industries have maximum 1980s, an outcome of their intense focus performance extremes is sustainable in best-in-class operating margins.
on short-term results was that many UK the long run.
If they dont, the result will Once these best-in-class margins have and, indeed, US companies gradually inevitably be an unhappy ending.
been achieved by a company if they became trapped in a paradigm of high can in fact be achieved the new value margin and low growth.
MAKING THE WORLD SAFER 88 million containers traverse the globe each year, but only around 2% are physically inspected at ports and borders.
Smiths Detection has developed TM 88 million CORSYS, a pioneering, AI-driven software solution, designed specifically for the Security Operations market.
Partnering with Microsoft and Hitachi cargo containers traverse the Consulting, this new solution enables operators to increase the number of globe each year but only around containers inspected, while providing a significant increase in the inspection 2% are physically inspected precision and greatly improving overall efficiency.
Evaluating 100% of containers with CORSYS will allow our customers to know more about each container and choose the right ones to inspect.
13 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements In an ideal situation, a company must So what can a company normally How we compete: grow faster than every competitor in the expect in terms of growth?
competitive platforms market, otherwise its implicitly planning Niels Bohr, the Nobel prize-winning So, the principal challenge for any never to be better than second place.
theoretical physicist, is famously company is how to build sustainable quoted as saying forecasting is very competitive advantage.
This requires For the low growth, high margin difficult, especially when it concerns the the right combination of world-class companies, the best new value creator future.
But some parts of operating excellence, innovation, growth is produced by higher levels of organic forecasting are fairly easy, especially if and people development.
When starting on a journey of you do the same old thing.
Whilst on the have been pursuing at Smiths.
change and value creation improvement, physicists theme, Albert Einstein also management teams often ask Industrial companies like Smiths compete said One definition of madness is to themselves, what should we do first?
with each other in a number of different perform the same experiment over and Try to push operating margins higher or ways.
They use a set of competitive over again but expect different results.
try to get more organic growth?
There is platforms: there are seven in most In the vernacular, if you always do what a compelling answer here.
Depending on industrial company cases.
The first you always did, youll always get what you the exact starting point, the ratio of value platform is cost, the second is technology, always got.
creation for 100bps of organic growth the third is distribution, the fourth is or 100bps of operating margin typically The reality is that if a company customer service, the fifth is brands ranges between 4x and 12x.
The magic participates in a 2% growth market, and marketing, the sixth is people and which companies must therefore discover without active intervention to produce the seventh is industrial design.
I have is how to grow again.
That has been the a different outcome, the company will included industrial design because great challenge for Smiths since I became its grow at 2%, assuming of course that it is design is not only beautiful, its usually Chairman and for many years before it.
properly combating attrition of its core simple.
With simplicity comes lowI will outline our mechanism for achieving business.
Worse, as new competitors cost, elegance, reliability and ease of that later in this statement.
enter the market, the company may manufacture.
But in this list, the single actually grow at less than 2% as these most important factor is the calibre of new market entrants nibble away at their people you hire and inspire because market share.
nothing in a corporation ever happens except through people.
MAKING THE WORLD SAFER Increasing accuracy of suspect target identification by over 90% 14 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The importance of these seven As I have said in previous statements, the Company had underinvested for competitive platforms varies depending the primary tool we use for separating many years.
When we began this journey on which part of the market is being us from the pack is innovation, which three years ago, the new product served.
If we think of the market as a underpins all of our competitive Vitality Index was zero or near zero in pyramid where the various segments platforms.
While new products are rightly almost every reporting division and are divided into three horizontal seen as the primary manifestation of sub-segment, and had been so for many layers of good, better, then best, innovation, we also need innovation in years.
The Smiths management team the requirements needed to compete our route to market, our manufacturing has done a magnificent job in getting this effectively in each level of the marketplace processes, materials science, algorithmic moving again.
What is development through mathematics, The birds eye view of a company considered better or best, for example, etc.
If a company doesnt cannibalise its To stand back from the above detail, at will vary depending on the state of own products then someone else will.
the 30,000 ft. level, companies are about maturity of a particular market, especially The Eastman Kodak Company is a classic four things: when we consider emerging ones.
What is example of how this can go terribly wrong.
a good product in a developed market But the greatest crystal balls on the 1.
A dream for the future may actually appear to be a better future are mathematics, the electronics 2.
A strategy to achieve that dream product in a developing market.
And that and software that bring it to life, plus 3.
People changes over time as a market gradually materials science.
This includes all the moves from emerging to developed.
popular elements we think of today such 4.
Relentless execution Medical markets have a softer version of as Artificial Intelligence, the Internet While some observers may prefer different this market tiering because, which one of of Things, machine learning, computer words to mine, the word dream here us wants to receive an opening price point vision, natural language processing, describes a combination of fervent hope heart valve, even if it is cheap?
robotics, Industry 4.0, mathematical and desire for a better future.
If a company taxonomy, 3D printing, etc.
Opening price point products always doesnt have a dream it will simply become require a company to be the lowest Some observers may naturally ask, a figurative version of Alices conversation cost producer to be successful and Why cant you push innovation and with the Cheshire cat at the crossroads sustainable.
High-technology companies growth faster in Smiths Medical?
in Lewis Carrolls Alices Adventures in obviously require their leading competitive There are some market realities here.
vector to be technology but they also New product innovation is actually Our dream is to become one of the great need attractive costs too.
All companies toughest in regulated markets such engineering technology companies of the require great distribution, customer as medical where patient safety, the world, but we will start by first becoming service, good brands and marketing plus scrutiny and requirements of regulatory one of the great engineering technology good industrial design.
No matter how bodies is at its highest.
Even seemingly companies of the UK.
This is a long haul, great or how inexpensive a product is, small product modifications can require but it is an achievable one and a worthy without proper distribution, the product thousands of pages of submissions to one in my view.
Sales forecasts can also be Our strategy to achieve this dream challenging with completely new medical So I repeat that our primary goal is to is to use operations excellence and products because, unlike in unregulated achieve higher levels of organic growth, innovation as our two primary tools, markets, new products cannot be presold while significantly improving operations and superb people as the driving force.
That brings Niels Bohrs excellence and people development.
The circumstances surrounding each of comment on forecasting to real life.
We have begun to make significant the Smiths businesses vary somewhat, progress along this three avenue journey.
Nevertheless, the fact remains that a but the core set of ideas of how to achieve As previously, we will selectively enhance company can neither save nor spend its them are largely the same in every and turbocharge this approach with way into prosperity, but it can innovate its business we own.
In most places at Smiths, WERE CREATING THE FUTURE 15 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements As regards our people, that vital The calculus of growth On the road to success ingredient, the objective here is to I return to my central theme.
Over the Smiths has made great progress in inspire the voluntary engagement of our years, companies have found many FY2018, with the return to organic employees, and give them a stimulating different ways to drive organic growth.
revenue growth for the first time in five career within an exciting growth But it always comes from doing something years.
Further enhancement of growth environment in an innovation-oriented new.
While innovation is itself not a and margins must come from further company.
Gradually our employment process at the strategic level, methods reducing the use of working capital, brand will build and more and more to achieve growth are.
The rules for the cost of poor quality, and on-time people will choose Smiths as an employer.
achieving it are as follows: service performance.
We will invest in them, just as we invest 1.
I n the core markets of the company When a company embarks on a change as in operational excellence and innovation.
2% in our earlier example, a company radical and thorough as the one which we must discover through segmentation are engaged, there is always significant analysis or create through innovation, upfront investment in time, money and Our strategy to achieve this pockets of new organic growth in their human resources.
A company which has dream is to use operations core at multiples of the underlying a history of innovation and new product excellence and innovation as our market.
The core is always the best development always has a family of two primary tools, and superb place to begin.
growing innovative products in the market people as the driving force.
paying for the new ones being developed.
L ine extension and geographic In most cases at Smiths, we are having to expansion.
play catch-up, which makes the transition And, finally, relentless execution.
Gain market share year after year in to growth and innovation trickier.
But it found in a lifetime of work experience that a statement of the obvious, no great is the way to make the Company more very few companies cannot be improved company was ever created by losing competitive and sustainable in the by the application of imagination, creativity market share each year.
It will produce better growth and relentless effort.
No matter how and better earnings as the challenges 4.
H aving the courage and discipline to hard the challenge, or how long the road, gradually yield to the combination prioritise differently: reallocate and problems always eventually yield to of imagination, creativity, relentless move resources from low-growth this combination of factors.
So it will be effort and of course, the all-important markets to high-growth markets.
Invent completely new markets The four lines of my 30,000 ft comment or products.
Id like to thank all of our investors for above are foundation stones and, without believing in our story.
It will work Im all four simultaneously supporting There is no other calculus for growth sure of it and as I said in 2017, ultimately the corporation, we have what than this one and it can be applied all of us will be the beneficiaries.
So we systematically in any business.
As I have therefore expand our framework for mentioned before over the years, three eventual success by adding investment in of the five strategies listed above require SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY people to our investments in operations innovation.
This is the pathway weve been CHAIRMAN excellence and innovation.
WERE CREATING THE FUTURE GOING INTO DEEP SPACE WITH NASA Two of our divisions are providing mission-critical support to Providing mission-critical support NASAs manned spacecraft Orion, during its deep space mission.
to NASAs manned spacecraft Orion, Smiths Interconnects rugged connectors support high-speed data rates that will keep digital signals transmitting despite the during its deep space mission.
extreme vibration of blast-off and splash-down.
Bespoke tests run by Flex-Tek improved and proved the robustness of the Space Launch Systems fuel manifolds.
