Chairmans Statement Another successful year for Sophos We are pleased to report that we achieved another year of We continued the strong momentum in strong growth and that from a technology and competitive growth and innovation that have been the standpoint Sophos has never been in a stronger position hallmarks of our business in recent years than it is today.
Our continued success reflects the significant investments we have made in recent years in our products, organisation, and people.
Against a strengthening demand backdrop, customer awareness of the need for effective cybersecurity was dramatically heightened in the first-half of our financial year by a number of high-profile ransomware attacks which made media headlines around the world.
Consequently, we are reporting a strong year for our Enduser security business, but also broad-based growth across all key products and regions.
As we entered the 2018 financial year, we made a number of commitments to stakeholders, particularly with respect to delivering on an ambitious pipeline of innovation, as well as the medium-term goals that we have set for our business.
I am delighted to say that we achieved a successful financial result for the year, which clearly demonstrates that we are on track to meet our growth objectives.
Our financial model is strong, as it is rooted in a large Software as a Service SaaS subscription base, which we have continued to grow in the past year.
Indeed, as we enter the 2019 financial year the total subscription base has exceeded the $1 billion milestone, and we now have more than 300,000 end user customers around the world protecting their businesses with Sophos cybersecurity solutions.
In October we launched a major upgrade to the Sophos XG Firewall with enhanced performance and compelling new synchronized security features.
We were also able to rapidly integrate the advanced machine learning technology, known as deep learning, acquired with Invincea a year ago.
In January 2018 we launched a dramatic upgrade to our already successful Intercept X next-generation endpoint offering, which now delivers unrivalled detection of unknown malware based on our advanced approach to the use of artificial intelligence in cybersecurity.
Additionally, our customers and partners have benefited from a wide range of new product updates, features, and functions as well as further significant investment in our flagship cloud management platform, Sophos Central, which now offers even more effective and comprehensive security for customers, and greater cross-selling opportunities for partners.
10 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements End User Customers Partner Growth 300K 30% Awards We continued our commitment to support and invest in our SC Awards Europe partner channel and it is very encouraging to see that we added over 9,000 new partners in the year.
We offer our Best UTM Solution Sophos XG partners the opportunity to build successful and profitable Firewall businesses with Sophos over the long term and we shall continue to invest in the tools, education, training, and SC Awards Europe support they require in order for them to become even Best Email Security Solution more productive over time.
Sophos Email on Sophos Central In summary, during the 2018 financial year, we believe we SC Awards Europe have demonstrated that our focused strategy continues to be effective, backed-up by tight operational and financial Best Web Content Management controls and significant investment for the future.
As a Solution result, we feel very encouraged about our ability to deliver against our medium and long-term objectives, and to CRN Awards 2017 achieve further growth and improvement in profitability Winner ARC Awards Network in the current-year.
On behalf of our Board, I would like to Security thank our Sophos team members all around the world for Winner Tech Innovator Awards, their tireless dedication, expertise, and hard work.
It is their Security Endpoint Intercept X commitment and their achievements that make it possible to deliver value to our customers and returns to our shareholders.
I would also like to thank our customers GEC Awards 2017 and partners for the confidence they continue to place Top Vendor for Endpoint Security in Sophos, and you our investors for your continued confidence and support.
We will continue to work hard ARN ICT Industry Awards 2017 tokeep earning it.
Security Vendor of the Year Peter Gyenes Computing Security Excellence Non-Executive Chairman Awards 2017 Security Innovation of the Year Intercept X Channelnomics Security Vendor of the Year eGovernment Computing Winner Platinum Award for Sophos Endpoint Protection VAR India Best Security Company in India 11
