CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CREATING long-term sustainable value process.
Additionally, a new profit improvement programme has Results overview been instigated to improve efficiency and effectiveness within our In 2018, the Group delivered a 5% increase in like-for-like LFL operating companies, ensuring we achieve appropriate operating sales, driving a 7% LFL increase in adjusted operating profit to leverage as we grow.
We expect to deliver savings in 2019 of 248.3 million.
Sales increased 5% to 1,604.2 million and 15-20 million and this will help to offset inflationary pressures statutory operating profit was 176.4 million, resulting in operating to our cost base.
We will continue to make investments in higher margins of 11.0%, 15.5% on an adjusted basis.
Our operating cash growth areas and operational improvements.
The cost to achieve flow conversion rate was 59%, down on the previous year as we these savings will be approximately 35 million for further continued with material capex to support the growth of Millbrook.
information see the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 11.
Adjusted earnings per share EPS increased by 7% to 164.9 pence with statutory basic EPS at 157.6 pence.
Our people During the year, the Group made three acquisitions, the largest Integral to the success of Spectris are the skills, experience and being Concept Life Sciences, which provides integrated drug technical capability of our employees.
I would like to thank all our discovery, development, analytical testing and environmental employees for their hard work and dedication during the year and consultancy services, and we completed a 100 million share for their commitment to driving the business forward.
We maintain a healthy balance sheet, with year-end into 2019, there will continue to be change within the organisation net debt of 297.1 million, towards the bottom end of our as we implement our profit improvement programme and leverage guidance.
We are committed to supporting our people through this change.
As part of this commitment, The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 40.5 pence I am pleased that Russell King has agreed to take on the role per share which, when combined with the interim dividend of Workforce Engagement Director to provide the Board of 20.5 pence, gives a total of 61.0 pence per share for the year, with a mechanism for receiving and responding to the views an increase of 8%.
This is consistent with our policy of making of employees see page 50. progressive dividend payments based upon affordability and sustainability.
This is the 29th consecutive year that we have Absolute integrity is at the heart of Spectris values, guiding our increased our dividend since becoming a publicly quoted company decision-making and ensuring that we always operate to the in 1988, at a compound annual growth rate of just over 10%.
In 2018, the Board undertook a comprehensive The dividend will be paid on 28 June 2019 to shareholders on the review of the Group ethics and compliance programme.
We were register at the close of business on 24 May 2019.
The ex-dividend pleased to see the strong commitment to this across the Group.
To keep the programme fresh, further enhancements will be implemented in 2019 across the Group to improve our ethics, Strategic review underway anti-bribery and corruption and export controls compliance Spectris has a diverse portfolio of businesses with strong brands, programmes.
We are also improving our processes in relation to supported by leading technologies and talented people.
The last environmental factors, for example in monitoring GHG emissions two years has seen the Group return to delivering organic growth, and collecting data on waste.
We have also standardised how we but the sales growth has not yet converted into improved operating record health and safety data.
These improvements will help us margins.
Gross margins remain impressively high, but operating better assess and therefore meet our sustainability objectives for leverage has been disappointing.
However, we are convinced that further information see the Sustainability Report on pages 38 to 43. there are significant opportunities to improve operational performance by taking a more focused approach, reducing Board update complexity and targeting higher growth markets where we have There have been some important changes to the Board in 2018. a competitive advantage.
John OHiggins retired from the Board in September, having had a very successful 12 years as Chief Executive of Spectris.
In November, we launched a strategic review with the explicit We were delighted to recruit Andrew Heath as his successor.
objective to develop and execute our strategy for sustainable, Andrew previously served as CEO of Imagination Technologies profitable growth, as the basis for delivering a significant and Group plc and CEO of Alent plc and prior to that had a 30-year sustainable increase in shareholder value.
At the heart of our career with Rolls-Royce plc where he held several international and offering are our highly-specialised measuring instruments.
We have senior management roles.
Since joining, he has extensively visited been adding software and services to provide further monitoring, the Groups operations and has been working closely with the testing and analytical capabilities, to deliver greater insights and Board on initiating the strategic review and new profit solutions focused on our customers specific needs.
combination of hardware plus associated software and services will remain key to our strategy.
After 12 years as Group Finance Director, Clive Watson has also decided to retire and will step down from the Board.
We are very The review has initially identified a number of platform businesses pleased that Derek Harding will be joining the Board to succeed which are scalable, are aligned to target growth markets and Clive, as Chief Financial Officer Designate, on 1 March 2019, before which will offer the greatest value creation potential to both our formally becoming Chief Financial Officer following a months customers and to our shareholders.
During 2019, we will complete handover.
Derek brings a wide range of financial leadership and the assessment of the portfolio composition, providing the industrial expertise to Spectris, having been most recently group necessary clarity on capital allocation and asset optimisation in the 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report We delivered good organic growth in 2018, building on the progress made in 2017.
With a new management team in place and with a tighter strategic focus and emphasis on cost effectiveness, the Board is confident that the Group is well placed for the future.
finance director at Shop Direct and previously Senior plc, following 11 years in various finance and strategy roles at Wolseley plc.
Sales Jo Hallas, Business Group Director, left the Company in February 2019 to become chief 5% executive officer at Tyman plc.
To replace her, Mark Fleiner joined in January 2019.
Mark has in 2018 nearly 30 years experience in the energy, chemical and metals industries.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank John, Clive and Jo for their material contribution to developing the Group and driving its success Adjusted EPS during their tenures and express our best wishes for their futures.
7% Summary in 2018 We delivered good organic growth in 2018, building on the progress made in 2017.
Our aim is to continue to grow, however, we must focus on our core strengths and become more efficient, so that we grow more profitably, all while maintaining a robust financial position.
Dividend per share With a new management team in place and with a tighter strategic focus and emphasis on 8% cost effectiveness, the Board is confident that the Group is well placed for the future.
in 2018 Mark Williamson Chairman 19 February 2019 Spectris plc 5
