CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT OVERVIEW FY18 has seen the Group continue to make good progress in elevating our retail proposition in order to deliver enhanced levels of excellence to our customers.
Our new generation of flagship stores continue to out-perform our expectations, and I would like to thank all our people for their loyalty and hard work.
I am very pleased that our results have come in at the top end of the expectation that Mike Ashley mentioned in his outlook statement last year.
We have consistently used Underlying EBITDA as one of our Alternative Performance Measures, this has increased 12.2% year on year.
FY18 Underlying Profit before tax was up 34.5% to 152.9m, largely as a result of maintaining a strong trading performance in the UK as we undergo the strategic shift to the elevated store and online offering, whilst starting to see the benefits of increased efficiencies in the UK and Europe.
There have been improvements in the currency hedging rates used year on year as well as the advantage of a strong Euro for the European divisional results.
In terms of statutory reporting, our Profit before taxation has reduced by 72.5%, which arises predominantly from the profit on the sale of the Dunlop business and the profit on the sale of JD Sports shares included in the results for the prior period and the recognition of the net losses on our strategic investment in Debenhams in the current period.
During the year, the Group generated free cash flow of 326.2m, and undertook capital expenditure of 213.4m, including 140.0m on property acquisitions.
Net debt increased from 182.1m to 397.1m as a result of overall investment in our elevation strategy and an increased spend on our strategic investments.
The Group continues to maintain substantial financial resources and a strong balance sheet.
ELEVATION STRATEGY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The enhancement of our retail proposition, on the high street and elsewhere, continues to be a strategic priority.
In line with this, our multi-channel elevation strategy is a key driver towards achieving our long to medium term goal of delivering an unrivalled multi-brand offering to customers across sport, lifestyle and fashion.
This strategy began on the high street with the active management of our property portfolio, which is seeing us continue to open a new generation of stores.
These include regional flagship stores with multiple fascias in key retail locations.
This is enabling us to work closely with our third party brand partners to ensure greater integration of key products within improved retail space.
The elevation strategy further encompasses how we connect with the consumer across all our channels, including social, digital and in store.
It is also creating opportunities for staff and it aims to increase value for shareholders in the long term.
OUR PEOPLE AND OUR PRACTICES As always, the wellbeing of our people is a priority consideration, and the Board is committed to treating all staff with dignity and respect.
During FY18 we completed an organisational development programme to give staff improved visibility over career options within the Group.
This has resulted in an improved system for staff appraisals.
This activity included a review of staff wages at all levels of the Company within the UK, in order to ensure that our people continue to be rewarded for their loyalty.
I can confirm that all staff, including casual workers, continue to be paid hourly rates above the levels set by the National Minimum Wage or above the new Statutory National Living Wage if aged over 25.
In addition, the Company pays commission and other rewards to staff worth approx.
Eligible employees participating in the Company share bonus scheme received shares worth 45.5m in FY18.
The Company continues to meet its obligation to ensure staff in the UK, including casual workers, receive holiday pay on an accrued basis and statutory sick pay.
Further details of our arrangements for staff are set out in the Our Business section on pages 55 to 58 and 77 to 86 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report including details of a new proactive occupational health programme, entitled SD Wellbeing, which offers support to staff via a range of measures.
52 THIRD PARTY BRAND PARTNERS Our elevation strategy is seeing us open bigger and better stores, which enables us to strengthen our relationships with third party brands.
The result is that we are able to offer a greater range of choice, including as time goes on, more premium product lines.
We are working with our suppliers towards our elevated stores offering good, better and best products across all categories.
FY18 has seen us continue to strengthen our relationships with leading third party brands, including adidas, Nike, Puma and Under Armour.
BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT I am pleased to report that the role of Michael Murray has broadened to include overseeing the execution of the Company's elevation strategy on behalf of the Board.
In addition to his duties in relation to property, Michael has therefore been assigned to the role of Head of Elevation.
Michael continues to be engaged on a consultancy basis.
I would like to thank him for his additional input, and we have made a provision of 5.0m for services to the end of FY18 towards payments due under our previously disclosed agreement with him.
Under this agreement, an independent property valuation takes place, in order to establish the value created by Michael for the Group.
We are pleased to have appointed Jon Kempster as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director on 11 September 2017 and David Daly as Non-Executive Director and member of the audit committee on 2 October 2017.
Jon brings to Sports Direct a wealth of public company experience in multinational organisations across multiple sectors.
David has 30 years international experience in the sporting goods industry working for Nike until his retirement in 2015, most recently as Senior Director for Nikes Club and Federation Business based in Amsterdam.
The Company has continued to strengthen its senior management team, and I am pleased to announce that Chris Wootton has been promoted to the role of Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
As previously stated during the period, Liam Rowley joined us last October as Head of Strategic Investments.
I am confident that this pool of new talent will be of great benefit to the Company.
In relation to the composition of the Board we are committed to meeting gender diversity targets.
We are currently interviewing a number of female candidates to join the Board as Non-Executive Directors, and female candidates are being encouraged to apply to become our next Workers' Representative to the Board.
35% of senior leadership roles at Sports Direct, ahead of the Hampton Alexander target of 33% of women in senior leadership by 2020 and our average gender pay gap is approx.
6.3%, which is below the current national average of 18.4%.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Strategic investments are a key part of the Groups overall strategy.
In a challenging retail market, we believe innovative strategic partnerships will help to differentiate our offering and enhance the consumer experience by giving us ways to extend our reach into new retail channels and geographies.
During the year we have progressed our strategy through our investment in Game Digital with the potential to develop Belong eSports arenas, and our increased interest in Debenhams.
The appointment of Liam Rowley has brought enhanced focus on aligning our strategic investments with our medium to long term goals.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board trusts that shareholders will welcome the steps taken in FY18 to reassure them that John Ashley did not benefit inappropriately from being the brother of majority shareholder Mike Ashley.
In fact, John was actually disadvantaged by approximately 11m after he forewent bonuses that he would have received if he were treated equally to other executives who helped to build the Company as announced on 24 November 2017.
By voluntarily abstaining from voting on this issue, the Board has provided the Company's independent shareholders the opportunity to determine whether or not to make a retrospective payment to John Ashley.
The Board notes that independent shareholders voted against making this payment at the General Meeting held in December 2017.
The Board respects the views of the Company's independent shareholders and considers all these matters to be closed.
"SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 53 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT In November 2017 we announced that we have entered into a new Revolving Credit Facility ""RCF""."
The RCF is valid for four years with a one year extension option, and provides the Group with access to borrowings of up to 907.5m.
This has now been increased to 913.5m.
We very much appreciate the ongoing support of our banking partners.
Net debt to Reported EBITDA is currently 1.1 times.
The Board has decided not to pay a dividend this year.
We will continue to keep this under review in future periods.
The Board ensures that sufficient capital is retained within the Group to meet its strategic objectives.
We continued to conduct our Share Buyback Programme during the period, pursuant to the authority granted to us at the 2017 AGM.
During the period to 29 April 2018 the Company has purchased 37,105,027 ordinary shares at a cost of 113.9m excluding purchasing costs and representing 5.8% of the issued share capital.
The number of shares held in treasury by the Company at the end of the period was 103,633,049 representing 16.2% of the issued share capital.
No shares have been disposed of by the Company.
As at 18 July 2018 the Company has not purchased any further shares under the Share buyback programme.
No shares have been disposed of by the Company to this date.
The Group has invested 140.0m in FY18 in property assets FY17: 317.0m, which brings our elevation strategy spend to 562.0m, consistent with our two to four year estimate.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUR VALUES Finally, I would like to say how pleased I was that our year-end in April coincided with publication of an announcement by the Reputation Institute, which named Sports Direct as among the ten UK companies with the biggest reputation improvements during 2017 to 2018.
In June 2018, the Company was also ranked ahead of companies like Apple and John Lewis in an index of international retailers, which was published by Loqate GBG in partnership with Planet Retail RNG and Retail Week Connect.
Whilst there is no room for complacency, it is refreshing to see this independent recognition of the work we have undertaken to ensure that our working practices and corporate governance are aligned with our values.
I note that various commentators in the past have sought to portray Mike Ashley as a socalled 'pantomime villain.
However, since Mike became Chief Executive, the Company has initiated a process of transformation to the benefit of all stakeholders.
This has seen dynamic implementation of our elevation strategy led by Michael Murray.
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM Non-Executive Chairman 18 July 2018 54
