BUILDING Strategic Report A strategy for long-term success CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Being transparent in the SSE is creating value in way SSE does business a low-carbon world by This Strategic Report seeks to meet Financial Reporting Council and EU regulations and focusing on earning returns non-binding guidelines on disclosure of for shareholders and non-financial reporting.
Accordingly, the following pages detail the inputs to the contributing to society.
SSE Group of businesses, their outcomes, associated policies and risks, key performance indicators and the environmental, societal SSE is a public listed company that works and employee matters that rightly resonate in the public interest with a commitment with public opinion.
to being transparent in the way it does business, responsible in the way it works Indeed, SSE is a leader among FTSE 100 with stakeholders and sustainable in the way companies when it comes to material it makes decisions.
It has a proud past and disclosure of its impact on the world around the SSE we see today is the product of it.
SSEs gender pay gap was published long-standing values and prevailing principles nearly two years before required by the UK that will continue to inform its responses to Government and I am pleased that the Board the challenges and opportunities presented has endorsed an ambitious plan to increase by the energy market of tomorrow.
significantly the proportion of women in senior roles between now and 2021, having The energy landscape has changed out of considered the Hampton-Alexander review all recognition since SSEs formation 20 years of gender balance in FTSE companies.
The sector has evolved and SSE has can read more about this on page 81. evolved with it thanks to a clear purpose to responsibly provide the energy and related The openness SSE applies to its tax affairs services needed now and in the future, and is evident in its record as the first FTSE 100 an unflinching focus on what it has always company to be awarded the Fair Tax Mark, done best: the efficient operation of, and which has now been secured four years disciplined investment in, a balanced range running.
This transparency is underpinned by of energy businesses.
the Board and executive management teams firm belief that rather than a penalty on profit, Faced with the opportunities that are emerging tax is a way for responsible companies to through decarbonisation, electrification and invest in the communities that they rely on the need to upgrade the UKs infrastructure, to do business and to achieve growth.
There our focus needs to be keener than ever.
is more about SSEs transparency on tax on This will mean making the most of SSEs page 78. core competencies and creating value for shareholders and society from developing, SSEs total tax contribution in the UK and owning and operating energy and related Ireland is just one of several indicators of infrastructure and services in a sustainable way.
responsibility and contribution to society that are disclosed annually in the Sustainability I am of the firm belief that this strategy Report that is published alongside this Annual will produce a meaningful contribution Report.
It provides data on the number of to a low-carbon future.
Its delivery will people injured while working for SSE and be dependent on the shared talent, skills its contractors: SSEs overall contribution and values of the people at SSE, and the to GDP in the UK and Ireland: employee continuation of the progress made in recent productivity so-called human capital in years.
The foundations for this lie in SSEs the UK: and carbon emissions produced performance in 2017 18.
That performance, by SSEs operations.
and the economic, environmental and social impact of SSEs activities, are summarised in this Strategic Report.
The following pages also look ahead in more detail to what will be a period of renewal for the SSE Group of businesses in 2018 19 and beyond.
22 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Working responsibly Making sustainable decisions Contributing to a with stakeholders for shareholders low-carbon future SSE takes seriously the responsibility that The SSE described in this report has been SSE responsibly provides the energy and comes with providing an essential service built with the support of shareholders, and related services people need and it will that drives the UK and Ireland economies their ongoing backing will be key to our continue to do so as it goes through this and touches the lives of millions.
A set of contribution to a low-carbon future.
SSE current period of renewal.
It will continue six well-established core values known rewards that support by taking a long-term to pay dividends to shareholders, continue as the SSE SET Safety, Service, Efficiency, view to ensure its financial and operational to invest in vital energy infrastructure Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork decisions deliver dividends to shareholders and continue to boost the UK and Irish have, over the years, become a useful and sustainable outcomes for all stakeholders.
Above all, by being transparent shorthand at SSE for being responsible and in the way it does business, responsible doing the right thing.
These values guide the Those decisions are of course coloured by in the way it works with stakeholders and complex interplay with various stakeholders the prevailing market and policy trends in sustainable in the way it makes decisions, whose input influences the way SSE conducts the energy sector in the UK and Ireland, and SSE will contribute fully to the creation itself and who are, in turn, affected by the it was against this backdrop that we entered of a low-carbon future.
output of SSEs decisions and actions.
into an agreement with innogy SE in respect of a proposed demerger of SSEs household This Strategic Report is approved by the Board This Strategic Report explores, in greater energy and services business in Great Britain of Directors as a document of record for you, detail than ever before, the complex now named SSE Energy Services and the shareholder, of SSEs past performance interaction between SSE and its primary immediate combination of that business and future strategy.
In the Directors Report, with innogy SEs subsidiary npower to I set out the work done by the Board to form a new independent UK-based group.
ensure SSE upholds the highest standards of corporate governance and culture in I am confident that a new market model that the interests of shareholders and other creates the focus and agility of a standalone stakeholders, particularly customers.
supplier is the right response to the future Elsewhere, dedicated sections describe the direction of the GB energy supply sector.
Richard Gillingwater CBE importance SSE places on customer service, Chairman its engagement with employees, the way it I am equally confident that the energyand 24 May 2018 works with its supply chain partners for wider  business that will take economic benefit and the impact NGOs and shape after the demerger will optimise SSEs civil society have in decision making.
core competencies and play a leading role in the transition to a lower-carbon world Governments and regulators have a central for future generations.
The SSE Group of role in the energy sector and while SSE businesses is being renewed in this way respects the democratic process, it has a to provide each entity with a sustainable responsibility to proactively engage with platform for success and to create long-term policymakers to balance the long-term value for investors.
interests of energy users with shorter-term political priorities.
Making the right investment decisions to support payment of dividends to shareholders SSE has actively engaged in the UK continues to be a key focus.
A capital  Cost of investment programme valued at more than Energy Review, making the case that a whole 1.5bn was delivered over the course of the system view that meets the challenges of year.
Much of this spend was in economically decarbonisation across the power, heat and regulated electricity networks and in transport sectors, coupled with an effective renewable energy projects.
Capacity Market to ensure security of supply, will best meet the needs of customers.
At the The past year shows how index-linked same time, SSE sees a case for the reform earnings from projects combined with and modernisation of electricity networks a commitment to recycling capital but believes the challenges of delivering a through strategic disposals when the low-carbon UK economy are best met by a right opportunities arise can add real secure, cost-effective energy system that is value.
We have also taken an innovative privatised and well-regulated.
And while Brexit approach to financing investments through poses no immediate risk, SSE will continue to instruments like SSEs ground-breaking engage with government to maintain existing 600m Green Bond.
policy frameworks, retain access to European energy markets and protect the interests of Northern Ireland energy customers within the all-island Single Energy Market.
