Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our financial results included a 4.3% increase in NAV per share, a 7.5% increase in adjusted EPRA EPS and a 6.0% total accounting CREATING return.
Pleasingly, we also reduced our see-through borrowings to 237m, reducing our see-through LTV to 16.9%.
Based on the revised dividend policy we announced last year, we will distribute 50% of our adjusted EPRA EPS as dividend, resulting in a total VALUE dividend for the year of 7.1 pence per share: a 13.1% increase on the previous year.
NOW AND IN Board changes As announced this time last year, after eight years I will step down as Chairman at the AGM in March 2019.
In September, we announced THE FUTURE the appointment of Danuta Gray as Chair Designate, who will take over as Chairman after the upcoming AGM.
She brings a wealth of Board and leadership experience to St. Modwen, amongst others from her positions as a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, Direct Line Insurance Group plc and the Defence Board of the UK Ministry of Defence, her role as Senior Independent Director of Aldermore Group plc and her previous role as Chief Executive of Telefnica O2 Ireland.
I am confident the business will benefit greatly from her broad knowledge and experience in the ongoing development and delivery of our strategy.
People and culture In my eight years as Chair of St. Modwen I have come to regard us as a unique enterprise.
Our regeneration credentials are truly proven and not only provide us with a competitive advantage in acquisitions, but also fuel the continued delivery of our purpose.
There are many examples of this, but for me the living testament to this is Longbridge, which has gone from a redundant car factory to a vibrant place to live, work, shop and study for thousands of people in 14 years and which still has further exciting development opportunities ahead.
In order to be successful, businesses need a clear purpose and NAV per share Total dividend an agile strategy, but to deliver on this they need engaged people, with the right skills and motivation.
For people to remain engaged requires a positive, supportive culture and values, which can be felt 4.3% 13.1% on any encounter with any member of St. Modwen.
I have had very many opportunities to observe this and I want to thank everybody Adjusted EPRA EPS Total accounting return for their valued contribution.
7.5% 6.0% Prospects In signing off as Chair in March, I believe St. Modwen should be justifiably proud for what has been achieved so far and the business In 2018, we delivered solid financial results for our shareholders and is well placed for the future.
The external environment is unsettled a measurable increase in momentum in delivering on our focused but following more than 800m of disposals over the past 18 strategy, built around our core purpose, Changing places.
Creating months our financial leverage is low, whilst our pipeline is focused better futures.
This purpose captures our regeneration heritage on two sectors which benefit from structural growth: regional and acts as an important reference point for all our activities.
housebuilding and industrial and logistics.
The short-cycle nature In delivering on our purpose we aim to create value for all our of our projects provides flexibility, but building on our unique stakeholders, be it delivering high-quality homes for our customers: track-record and expertise we are confident we can continue our investment in creating new, flourishing communities: or the to create value for all our stakeholders.
As the prospects for investment in our people.
St. Modwen are positive, I am pleased to hand over to my successor One of our main goals in the year was to realise certain non-core when the business is in such great shape and I wish the business asset disposals to accelerate investment in the growth areas of every success in continuing to deliver on its purpose: Changing St. Modwen Homes and industrial and logistics development.
The momentum in this is illustrated by the sale of 529m of assets, including more than half of our retail portfolio, a 22% increase Bill Shannon in St. Modwen Homes volumes and an increase in our committed Chairman industrial and logistics pipeline from 1.0m to 1.5m sq ft. 4 February 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 7
