STRATEGIC REPORT Group Chairmans statement Group Chairmans statement A more innovative and resilient bank capable of stronger growth I was convinced when I became Group States and China, which have signicantly tangible equity has improved.
But we have Chairman that Standard Chartered was a impacted market confidence and in some not yet reached our objective of achieving unique organisation with huge potential based cases demand.
And secondly, the tighter double-digit returns.
Our shareholders expect on its extraordinary network across many of financial conditions we have seen in both this of us and we are determined to deliver it.
the most dynamic economies in the world.
emerging and developing markets as the We have continued to plant the seeds that This opinion is now more resolute than ever, US Federal Reserve gradually increased will deliver better performance over time.
having seen the Group strengthen its interest rates during the year.
During 2018, we worked to make the bank foundations and position itself for stronger This is the third year of our current strategy, a better organisation, capable of growing and more sustainable growth.
One of our and our 2018 results reect further significant faster by strengthening our performance Boards key priorities is to ensure we do progress against our 2015 strategic priorities.
culture, becoming increasingly client-centric, everything we can to help continue to unlock Given the improved performance the Board focusing on the long term, innovating across this potential in pursuit of Our Purpose has declared a final ordinary dividend of many fronts and becoming simpler, faster and driving commerce and prosperity through 15cents per share, which would result in a better.
We delivered a negative shareholder our unique diversity.
full-year dividend for 2018 of 21 cents per return in 2018 in weak global equity market This means that as well as our duciary share, approximately double the full-year conditions, after two consecutive years of responsibilities to our investors, we have a dividend paid last year.
We intend to increase positive progress.
I can assure you getting tremendous responsibility to the communities the full-year dividend per share over time, as back to growth in that regard is an important and societies in which we operate.
Two-thirds I described in my statement last year.
of the global population live in our fastprogress in the execution of our strategy and growing markets, and many have living build towards a 10 per cent return on tangible Outlook for 2019 standards below that which they deserve.
equity, the full-year dividend per share has While uncertainties, mostly linked to We are committed to promoting sustainable the potential to double by 2021.
To the extent geopolitical and political factors, have economic and social development that additional capital generated over that period increased and global growth has moderated improves the lives of people across our is not needed to fund further business and become less balanced, the global communities and transforms our markets growth, the Board will consider optimal ways economy is still expected to advance at a for the better.
of returning the excess to shareholders.
The markets in our The Board has also decided to adopt a footprint continue to lead global growth, and formulaic approach to setting the interim Progress during 2018 substantial opportunities remain across them.
dividend starting this year, being one-third This years performance was delivered of the prior year full-year dividend per share.
While we are of course not able to shape the against a largely supportive external external environment, there is much we can We have stronger foundations across all environment, but the global economy began do to continue to grow strongly, in a safe dimensions.
Income is growing at a rate to lose some steam as the year progressed, and sustainable manner.
Later in this report, greater than our costs, credit impairment mainly due to two factors.
Firstly, the Bill will set out the areas on which we will has notably reduced, underlying profits have continued trade tensions between the United focus to develop the Group over the next increased signicantly and our return on three years with a view to further improving financial returns.
We must also take time to step back and consider the longer-term regulatory, political, economic, technological and societal drivers of change shaping our business and assess the impact on us.
This ensures we will be able to combine the best of the old in connecting people through trade and commerce together with the best of the new in innovation, digital technologies and increasing client-centricity.
It also enables us to prepare both for the opportunities of the future and the inevitable challenges, which put a premium on both agility and resilience.
As a Board, we have also been paying particular attention to how management develops attractive value propositions for clients, advancing our own digital revolution and becoming more disruptive in our markets.
This is particularly important as competition Jos Vials in this space continues to grow, not just Group Chairman from banks, but from ntech and Big Tech companies.
These new players are Standard Chartered 04 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Financial KPIs This year, we have also established a newly Underlying return ontangible Underlying return on equity licensed entity in Frankfurt, which means that equity RoTE RoE we will be able to continue to service our Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the European clients post-Brexit, regardless of Groups profitability as a percentage of the Groups profitability as a percentage of the the outcome of the EU UK negotiations.
value of shareholders tangible equity value of shareholders equity Helping make the world more sustainable 5.1% 120bps 4.6% 110bps The world is changing rapidly, and our 2016 0.3% 2016 0.3% colleagues, clients and communities face daily economic, environmental and social 2017 3.9% 2017 3.5% challenges.
At the same time, there are rising 2018 5.1% 2018 4.6% expectations about the role banks should play in creating jobs and prosperity, and in Analysis Underlying RoTE of 5.1 per cent in2018 Analysis Underlying RoE of 4.6 per cent in 2018 protecting the environment.
It is our role to was an improvement on 3.9 per cent in 2017 but was a further improvement on 3.5 per cent lead in taking the difficult decisions to balance further progress is required in 2017, but progress is still required environmental, social and economic needs, The underlying profit attributable to ordinary The underlying profit attributable to ordinary while listening carefully to our stakeholders shareholders expressed as a percentage of shareholders expressed as a percentage of our clients, colleagues, investors, local average ordinary shareholders tangible equity average ordinary shareholders equity governments, policymakers and NGOs.
This year, we launched our refreshed public Capital ratio Total shareholder return TSR Position Statements, which cover new and Aim Deliver a positive return on shareholders Aim Maintain a strong capital base and Common tightened requirements that must be met investment through share price appreciation Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio before we can undertake business in and dividends paid industries with high-potential environmental or social impact.
This includes our position on power generation, which states we will cease 14.2% 60bps 21.5 % nm providing nancing for new coal-red power plants anywhere in the world, save where there is an existing commitment.
2016 13.6% 2016 17.7% 13.6% In 2018, we celebrated 15 years of our 2017 2017 17.6% Seeing is Believing initiative, surpassing our 2018 14.2% 21.5 % 2018 $100 million fundraising target in the ght against avoidable blindness.
The efforts and Analysis The Groups CET1 ratio was Analysis The Groups TSR in the full year 2018 commitment of our colleagues, as well as the 14.2 per cent above the top end of the range was negative 21.5 per cent, compared to positive support of our partners, meant that Seeing 17.6 per cent in 2017 The components of the Groups capital are summarised is Believing has been able to reach more on page 218 Combines simple share price appreciation with dividends than 176 million people across 37 countries, paid to show the total return to the shareholder and is expressed as a percentage supported 4.6 million sight-restoring surgeries and trained more than 334,000 health workers since 2003.
This is a proud moment increasingly providing financial services financial crime remains paramount to us, for us, and I would like to thank our colleagues with developed technology platforms and both in our operations and in leading for their dedication and the difference they lower costs, often with more limited regulatory and partnering in initiatives to combat it have made to the lives of individuals across obligations at present.
We must also consider how we see the Our enhanced Risk Appetite Statement and Drawing on this success, we have set balance between returns and risk.
In this our improved attention to non-financial risks ourselves a new challenge.
Through context, the Board is supportive of an are two further key areas which make us Futuremakers by Standard Chartered, we will environment where our colleagues feel freer stronger, and we have also passed the latest raise $50 million between 2019 and 2023 to to innovate, collaborate and grow within the round of the Bank of England stress tests deliver community programmes that provide limits dened by our Risk Appetite.
disadvantaged young people with the chance That said, we are by no means complacent.
to learn new skills and expertise, and improve Strengthening our defences One risk domain which remains top of their chances of getting a job or starting their mind is cyber risk.
We continue to expand This year, we have been encouraged by the own business.
our capabilities in this area and enhance significant further progress we have made in our operating models to strengthen our improving our Risk Management Framework defences and keep pace with ever-evolving across all dimensions, alongside our stronger cyber threats.
The ght against 05 STRATEGIC REPORT Group Chairmans statement Group Chairmans statement continued is a mirage and bound to evaporate sooner or everywhere.
Its the same for conduct while Governance and culture later.
It is as much about how we do things as progress has been made, it remains a crucial A strong culture and robust governance are what we do.
task of the Board in overseeing that all our essential.
The Board continues to strive for a colleagues own our culture and behave Having a strong performance culture should culture of open communication and challenge consistently with our valued behaviours.
be closely aligned to the Groups values.
If we inside the boardroom, where the Board can can outperform by making globalisation work We recently announced that Carlson Tong hold management accountable for execution through our diversity of markets and people, has joined our Board.
Carlson has over and delivery of the Board-approved strategy.
then we have put a solid stake in the ground 30 years experience operating in mainland We also need to continue setting the tone about our values throughout all our markets.
China, Hong Kong and the wider Asia Pacic from the top on the right culture for the Group.
region, and a deep understanding and Leading by example is today more important At a Board level, our role is to champion this knowledge of the financial services sector in than ever.
Only fully ethical leadership based so that our brand promise, Here for good, some of our key markets.
We also announced on the right values and behaviours can becomes even more of a reality, always and that Dr Han Seung-soo is retiring from the succeed over the longer term.
I would like to take this opportunity to they learned more about the nalists thank Dr Han for his substantial contributions Recognition Awards 2018 inspiring stories and experienced their to the Group over the past nine years, as The Standard Chartered Recognition tremendous enthusiasm first-hand.
well as his considerable insight into Asia, Awards were introduced in 2018 to put All the nalists had showed remarkable particularly Korea.
Om Bhatt is also stepping the spotlight on colleagues who bring our courage, resilience and leadership, down from the Board, and I would like to valued behaviours Do the right thing, breaking down barriers, and taking thank Om for his significant contribution to the Never settle, Better together to life, personal responsibility to lead from within, Group over the past six years, in particular his delivering outstanding outcomes for the and not just rely on leadership from above.
insight into banking and India.
The awards reinforce that driving Choosing the winners was extremely tough, Although not part of the formal governance of our performance depends as much on but the judges eventually settled on three the Group, we established our International how we do things as what we do.
outstanding examples of Do the right thing, Advisory Council, bringing together leading The Group Chairman and the Management Never settle, and Better together, plus one global gures, which held its inaugural Team spent a day with the nalists, where special Leadership award.
I see this as a great additional resource for the Group in Winners helping us better understand the key drivers inuencing the world and our markets and their strategic implications for the Group.
Conclusion The global economy has continued to grow, but geopolitical uncertainties and the spectre of trade protectionism remain.
We are realistic concerning the key issues and risks, but despite this, the opportunities in our markets First digital bank in Cote dIvoire Business Credit remain substantial and the work that we Applications team From left: Rs Sugavanam, Henry Baye, have done in recent years in enhancing our Ananth Gopal, Yustus Aribariho, From left: Adnan Ahmed, capabilities and strengthening our resilience Olga ArarDo the right thing a-Kimani, Sunil Kaushal Do the right thing Never settle ShahBetter togethe zad N Never settle asiri, Hamid Sarmeen, Better together puts us now in a better place to capture them.
presenting the awards and Syed Waqar Ahmed Jean Charles Yallet Based on our extraordinary footprint and the talent of our colleagues, I am confident that as we execute our new strategic objectives with discipline and energy we will create long-term value for all our stakeholders and become the best bank we can be.
This is Me mental health Leadership Award awareness campaign From left: Bill Winters, Marisa Scauzillo and Jos Vials.
Jos Vials From left: Chris Parker, Marisa was recognized as an exceptional people Group Chairman Sam King, Alex Gee, Peter leader who works well under pressure, exceeds client Do the right thing Never settle Better together Gibbinson, Kelly Hanson, expectations and exemplies all three valued behaviours 26 February 2019 Sean Mechie Standard Chartered 06 Annual Report 2018
