SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chairmans Statement Peter Bamford We changed our name to Superdry Plc this year demonstrating our commitment to the Superdry brand and giving greater simplicity and clarity to all of our communications.
The last year has been another one of growth, development and evolution for Superdry.
I would like to acknowledge Julians remarkable achievement in succeed Keith Edelman, who also stood down as Chairman of We changed our name to Superdry Plc this year demonstrating our establishing and building Superdry and thank him for everything the Remuneration Committee in September 2017. commitment to the Superdry brand and giving greater simplicity and that he has done.
He leaves us with a strong legacy that we Keith will be retiring at the AGM in September this year.
Keith clarity to all of our communications.
will build on as we embark on the next stage of the Superdry had been Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the story.
One specific legacy he leaves us with is the benefit of the We also announced at the Capital Markets Day in September Remuneration Committee since the IPO in 2010 and has helped Founder Share Plan which is discussed in more detail in note 9.
2017 a significant evolution of Superdrys strategy which reflects me steer the Company through its growth and development our increased global ambitions and the shift to the digital world in In addition, Nick Wharton decided to retire from his position as over the last eight and a half years.
His energy, commitment, everything that we do.
Central to this strategy is a shift towards Chief Financial Officer in order to pursue a plural career.
We are support and insight have been second to none and I would like our digital Ecommerce and Wholesale channels to market, which delighted to have Ed Barker join us to succeed Nick following to personally thank him for all he has contributed to Superdry.
require lower levels of capital investment to support growth and a well-planned handover and transition process.
I would like to We will continue to evolve our leadership team and Board away from a dependence on owned physical retail estate.
thank Nick for the important contribution he has made to both composition in light of our desire for greater diversity, skills and the business and the Board.
I wish him well for the next stage of Our Board and leadership team have also evolved.
Julian Dunkerton, experience to support our strategy, particularly in the areas of his career.
one of the founders of Superdry, decided to leave the Company in creative, digital and marketing expertise, and to provide for March 2018 to focus on his other interests.
Having stepped down We have also appointed two new Non-Executive Directors, succession in a number of roles in future years.
from the CEO role in October 2014 when Euan Sutherland was Dennis Millard and John Smith, who both bring highly relevant Superdry has achieved the third successive year of double digit appointed, the time was right for Julian, and for the business, to skills and experience to our Board.
Dennis joined us in the revenue and underlying profit before tax growth, reflecting strong move on to a new approach to leadership in line with the next phase important role of Senior Independent Director in February to revenue performance in the Wholesale and Ecommerce channels.
of our strategy focused on becoming a Global Digital Brand.
com Strategic Report.. we also announced our new The Company Super Responsible 40 has achieved the goals which are central third successive to our brand positioning year of double and demonstrate our digit revenue and commitment to corporate underlying profit responsibility and before tax sustainability.
This has been achieved against a difficult trading environment employee engagement survey, and have frequent presentations in our key markets across the globe.
The overall economic from members of the management team and engagement backdrop has not been favourable, while a combination of the with them outside the Board.
At the Capital Markets Day we structural shift to online shopping and adverse weather in the also announced our new Super Responsible 40 goals which fourth quarter in the UK, Continental Europe and the east coast are central to our brand positioning and demonstrate our of North America have made for a challenging end to the financial commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability.
year 2018, particularly in retail stores.
Euan and his team have Once again I would like to thank everyone who works done an exceptional job in extracting good results against this so hard for Superdry.
Your energy, drive and enthusiasm backdrop.
We have adjusted our guidance for financial year are key to our future success.
I would also like to 2019 in light of the general environment and the need to refine thank our shareholders for their continued our customer proposition in light of our evolved strategy and the support as Superdry continues to develop changing marketplace.
Corporate governance requirements are also evolving and we Peter Bamford have continued to refine our approach in response, as well Chairman as reflecting the continued growth and maturity of Superdry.
4 July 2018 Following the Board Evaluation in 2017, the Board has focused significantly more time on culture and values.
As a Board we regularly review the results of SuperSay, the Companys 03 Superdry Front Section.
indd 3 26 07 2018 16:56:39 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGY GLOBAL DIGITAL BRAND 5.0 A Compelling Vision for Growth Strategy Global Digital Brand Relentless Innovation Operational Excellence World Market Opportunity Strong Execution Experienced Senior Management Team Execution Focused Financial Impact Long-Term Brand Revenue Growth Operating Margin Expansion Strong Cash Generation Capital Allocation Re-Invest for Organic Growth Excess Capital Returns 04 Superdry Front Section.
