Chairmans statement Strengthening governance and performance America, are due to be commissioned in Results Q2 2019.
These investments have further I am pleased to report a year of good optimised our dispersion polymer network, progress, highlighted by a fourth providing large scale, low cost plants with consecutive year of growth in Underlying incremental capacity to support growth of profitability.
Our progress has been our higher margin speciality products underpinned by capital investment in higher growth markets, a continued focus Inorganic growth on innovation, and our disciplined M&A remains core strategy, overcoming a challenging Inorganic growth also remains a core market environment.
aspect of our strategy and the Group has now completed three bolt-on acquisitions We saw strong organic growth from our in the past three years: BASF Pischelsdorf Asia and Rest of the World ARW segment in January 2018, adding to the acquisitions which helped to offset adverse currency of Speciality Additives and PAC which were and raw material headwinds in Europe and completed in 2017 and 2016 respectively.
One of the Groups The Pischelsdorf site expands our SBR strengths is our geographic diversity and assets and customer base, supports our product differentiation and this was once Neil Johnson strategy to strengthen our paper packaging again clearly demonstrated in 2018.
Chairman coatings business and will provide further options for our network optimisation in the Underlying profit before tax increased from SBR market.
The site was successfully 130.0m to 135.1m, an increase of 3.9% integrated into the business in the first half and IFRS profit before tax increased by Governance highlights of 2018.
With this acquisition complete 39.2% from 86.4m in 2017 to 120.3m in Board re-balanced with Synthomer has secured its market 2018.
As well as taking into account the increased diversity leadership position in its core European improvement in Underlying performance, aqueous polymers segment, another the increase in IFRS profits is mainly the Revised code of conduct and milestone for our business.
We result of the gains on disposal of land whistleblowing hotline launched continue to actively evaluate appropriate in Malaysia 16.4m and a reduction in to support values and culture acquisition opportunities.
Non-executive director designated for workforce engagement Governance and Board Focus on investment for We were in full compliance with the future growth Policies and practices developed to 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Organic growth remains a key part of our implement 2018 Governance Code throughout 2018 other than in respect strategy and we continue to see significant of Board balance which was addressed opportunities to drive improvement from in September 2018 by the appointment our existing businesses with the support of of Holly A.
Van Deursen, replacing Jinya our conservatively leveraged balance sheet.
Chen who retired from the Board on In 2018 we made a record investment 31 December 2017. in capital expenditure to strengthen our platform for future growth.
This investment Holly was appointed to the Board programme introduced new capacity in as an independent non-executive each of our business segments with further director and brings a wealth of chemical capacity due to be commissioned in 2019. industry, global business and significant Our largest investment, the 90ktes plant boardroom experience.
expansion at our Pasir Gudang Malaysia Nitrile latex plant, was completed safely, The Board was pleased to endorse the on time and on budget in Q4 2018 and is promotion of the Companys values and now producing state-of-the-art products culture through the launch, towards the to support this high growth market.
In end of the year, of a revised and updated ENA our capital commitments to expand code of conduct.
As the main vehicle our capabilities in Oulu Finland and for explaining and communicating our SantAlbano Italy are complete and came standards for carrying on business, online in Q3 and Q4 2018 increasing people policies and corporate citizenship capacity by 12ktes and 5ktes respectively.
responsibilities, it was issued to every There will be further new capacity installed employee.
We also put in place an in 2019 in Functional Solutions as our two externally hosted whistle-blowing hotline major plant expansions, the 36ktes Worms accessible by telephone and online.
Germany and 12ktes Roebuck North 10 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 We have policies and practices well in Our people hand to implement the 2018 Governance Our people agenda has made further Code and as part of this work Alex Catto progress in 2018.
With mentoring, graduate has been designated by the Board as the recruitment, leadership and learning lead non-executive director to undertake development programmes established, workforce engagement.
Alex, with his and a strengthening employee brand, we longstanding connection with and deep have made good progress in all pillars knowledge of the Group, was considered of our framework to create an open and the ideal non-executive director to lead positive work environment.
and inorganic growth strategy means that our employee numbers now stand at 2,900 European Commission across our 30 manufacturing sites and investigation offices.
It is pleasing to see the adoption As announced on 8 June 2018, the of our values and culture which continues European Commission the Commission to unify the way Synthomer does business initiated an investigation into practices and underpins the success of the Group.
relating to the purchase of styrene monomer by companies, including The Groups employees continue to Synthomer, operating in the European deliver improvements in profitability and Economic Area.
The Company takes manage change in a dynamic organisation competition laws very seriously committed to long-term sustainable and will continue to fully cooperate growth.
The success of the Group with the Commission during its relies much on the commitment and ongoing investigation.
professionalism of all our employees and I would like to thank all of them for their Sustainability support in 2018.
Synthomer manufactures speciality chemicals using large scale and Dividend complex manufacturing processes that The Board has recommended a final consume hazardous raw materials.
Our ordinary dividend of 9.1p 2017: 8.5p per standards relating to safety, health and share, a 7.1% increase.
Taken with the 2018 the environment are high and maintaining interim ordinary dividend of 4.0p 2017: these is fundamental to the way we 3.7p per share, the total ordinary dividend operate our business.
We have clear is 13.1p 2017: 12.2p, representing an policies and procedures that underpin all increase of 7.4% in total dividend in 2018. of our processes and we remain resolute This is in line with the Groups dividend to our commitment to learn lessons from policy with the dividend representing 40% our activities, share best practices and of the Underlying earnings per share.
The final dividend per share is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual Synthomer recognises the significance General Meeting on 25 April 2019 and and importance of being a responsible will be payable on 5 July 2019 to those company.
We take responsibility for the shareholders registered at the close of complete life cycle of our products and business on 7 June 2019. the impact our operations have on people and the environment.
We are committed Outlook to approaching our business in an ethical Looking forward, the Groups leading and environmentally sound manner and market positions, incremental low cost have been committed to the International production capacity, geographic diversity Council of Chemical Associations ICCA and product differentiation, ensure we are Responsible Care project since the well placed to navigate the current global early1990s.
Given this, we are confident of making Our commitment to quantifying, improving further progress in 2019 and the Boards and communicating the sustainability of all expectations remain unchanged.
our activities will be further strengthened in 2019 as a result of the introduction of Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
With increased interest in sustainability, our Neil Johnson programme identifies key issues affecting Chairman our stakeholders and communicates the 4 March 2019 activities being undertaken and sets key performance targets for the Group.
The Groups risk management processes include consideration of the potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Synthomers performance.
The Groups investment decisions take into account appropriate evaluations of potential consequences for its employees, customers, suppliers and the environment.
We are not complacent and remain focused in our campaign for continuous and sustainable improvement.
