Strategic report Chairmans introduction The last twelve months have brought a great deal of change for TalkTalk as we have focused on the process of resetting and refocusing the business.
If I think back to the end of 2016, it had become increasingly clear to me that change was needed.
TalkTalk had become too complicated as an organisation, with wide-ranging ambitions.
As a consequence we had strayed from our prime mission of providing reliable and cost-effective connectivity to our customers.
There are two lessons I have learnt in business.
If your instinct tells you to change something, then get on and change it.
In hindsight Ihesitated too long.
Secondly, when you come to make those changes and start to delve into it, things will prove to be more difficult than Sir Charles Dunstone you imagined.
This I also found to be the case.
Executive Chairman We have worked hard since that time to radically simplify the business, reduce costs and focus on what matters to our customers and shareholders.
We have made enormous progress and I would like We have worked hard tothank everyone in TalkTalk for their dedication and commitment toradically simplify the indriving forward our reset.
I am confident that by the end of the financial year, we will be the business we believe we should be.
business, reduce costs The telecoms market has always been competitive, with demanding andfocus on what customers who not only seek reliability and value for money, but year on year consume ever increasing amounts of data.
It requires matterstoour customers agility and focus to keep up with their needs and I truly believe we arenow building a TalkTalk which has this capability.
To our customers, employees and shareholders, thank you for your support and forbearance.
I apologise for the bump in the road of last year and take full responsibility for it.
All I can promise is that I am fully engaged, working with a great team and determined to help this organisation reach its full potential.
Sir Charles Dunstone Executive Chairman 24 May 2018 Our investment case 1.
Our uniquely simple The uncertain Our customer A more beneficial TalkTalk is at the propositions are economic service operation regulatory heart of Britains resonating well and environment is is stable and environment fibre future building driving base growth driving strong network investment underpins cost a full fibre network in both Consumer customer demand and associated reductions and as a minority and B2B for better value and efficiencies are provides stability investor and anchor price certainty in paying off for future FTTP wholesale tenant fixed connectivity investment ofthe new company with Infracapital 04 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
