Chairmans Statement Year of strong delivery Results I am pleased to report that Tate & Lyle delivered a strong performance in the year ended 31 March 2018 with profits and earnings per share both well ahead of the prior year.
Cash generation remained strong and the balance sheet is robust, providing flexibility to support future growth.
Progressive dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 20.3p per share bringing the total dividend for the year ending 31 March 2018 to 28.7p per share, an increase of 2.5%.
This reflects the Boards confidence in the business, while at the same time continuing to rebuild dividend sustainability.
Looking ahead, the Board remains committed to a progressive policy of growing our dividend over time, taking into account the earnings prospects and investment needs of the business.
A bright future I am delighted that, on 1 April 2018, Nick Hampton became our new Chief Executive.
Nick succeeded Javed Ahmed who, after eight years of outstanding service, decided to step down from this role and retire from the Company.
Javed retires with the Boards deep gratitude and very best wishes for the future.
Nick had previously been our Chief Financial Officer for three years, during which time he demonstrated a strong track record of delivering results, inspiring colleagues and preparing the business for the exciting mission which he articulates in the following pages.
The Board is very confident that Nick has the experience, energy and vision to lead Tate & Lyle through the next phase of its growth and development as a world-class technologybased and service-driven ingredients business.
As you will read in his report, Nick has already made a strong start in his new role, with programmes already underway to sharpen focus on our customers, accelerate our portfolios development, and simplify and drive productivity.
At the same time, Nick and his management team are injecting new clarity of purpose and dynamism into the organisation to align our teams more effectively, increase their agility and improve their execution.
10 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Delivering responsibly Protecting our people, and the environment, are foundational to our business.
At the start of the 2017 calendar year, we Since joining the Board over a undertook an extensive Group-wide review of all our safety year ago, I have visited many processes and procedures, supported by an independent external expert consultancy.
The review provided important insights into of the Groups facilities how we think about and manage safety, and how we can improve our safety culture.
The outcome is our comprehensive new across the world and I am Group-wide Journey to Environmental, Health and Safety EHS always impressed and Excellence, launched in January 2018, more details of which can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Our ultimate goal is to have no energised by the passion, accidents and no injuries, and the Board remains focused on creating a safer Tate & Lyle for all our employees, contractors commitment and enthusiasm and visitors.
of our teams wherever I go.
Our environmental performance showed a pleasing improvement in the 2017 calendar year, with positive progress in our primary carbon footprint, waste sent to landfill and water usage.
Our energy use remained largely unchanged.
Summary Board changes Tate & Lyle is a strong company in a good financial position.
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year.
While we continue to face an evolving and sometimes challenging As presaged in last years Annual Report, Liz Airey retired from geopolitical landscape, we do so with confidence given the solid the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Then, on foundations upon which the Company has been built.
Under 31 October 2017, having served on the Board for a year, Jeanne Nicks leadership, I am excited about the future of Tate & Lyle, Johns stepped down as a non-executive director and chairman and our ability to unlock the growth potential of the business.
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee due to new I look forward to working with him to realise that potential, and commitments.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank drive growth and value for our shareholders in the years ahead.
Liz and Jeanne for their contributions to Tate & Lyle.
As mentioned earlier, Javed Ahmed retired as Chief Executive and from the Board on 1 April 2018, succeeded by Nick Hampton.
Gerry Murphy In April, we announced that Imran Nawaz will be joining the Chairman Company, and the Board, on 1 August 2018, as our new Chief Financial Officer.
23 May 2018 Governance To give the Board greater and more direct oversight of certain critical areas of corporate responsibility, in particular safety, the Board has decided to dissolve the Corporate Responsibility Committee and allocate its duties between the main Board and the Audit Committee.
Further details of this change can be found in my Corporate Governance report on page 56.
People The strong financial performance of the Company in the year ended 31 March 2018 is a reflection of the hard work and skill of all our colleagues at Tate & Lyle.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our management team and all our employees for their contribution in delivering another successful year.
Since joining the Board over a year ago, I have visited many of the Groups facilities across the world and I am always impressed and energised by the passion, commitment and enthusiasm of our teams wherever I go.
