The project proved to be very successful and exceeded our expectations by attracting around 94,000 users and 260,000 downloads since its launch in May 2018.
We believe that Space is our big step forward into the future, as it will change the way people handle their daily financial needs, creating a new reality in the Georgian banking system.
Our customers lie at the heart of everything we do and our priorities evolve with our clients needs and aspirations.
We recognise that in todays highly demanding environment, our customers require ever-more sophisticated products and services in order to meet the needs of their daily lives.
As a result, we introduced a new strategic priority - development of customer-focused ecosystems, which are closely linked to our core financial products and will create additional value for our customers.
The CEOs letter describes these new projects in more detail.
A further highlight of 2018 was our increased international expansion.
While Georgia is, and will remain, our main focus, our strong banking expertise and advanced digital capabilities give us the confidence to seek new opportunities abroad and expand our international presence.
After thorough consideration, we decided to strengthen our presence in Azerbaijan by merging our Azeri subsidiary, TBC Kredit, with the local Nikoil Bank and to enter the Uzbekistans market by establishing a greenfield bank.
In both cases, we are pursuing an asset-light, gradual capital investment approach and we are primarily focusing on digital offerings, aimed at retail and MSME customers.
I will personally dedicate more time to successful implementation of our international strategy in 2019.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Dear shareholders, Georgia confirmed to be an attractive business environment, with continuing structural reforms and high GDP growth I am pleased to report another potential.
In 2018, the country further improved its ranking in the World Banks Doing Business report by three positions successful year in TBC Banks th and became the 6 in the world.
This remarkable progress is also recognised through other assessments as Georgia history, which was marked by th reached the 7 position in the Economic Freedom Index and th 1 became 5 as safest country.
strong financial results and The strong economic growth reflected the progress in the significant progress towards reforms and higher diversification of external inflows with our strategic goals.
increasing share taken by new, more stable markets.
Despite the regional economic instability, in 2018 real GDP increased 2 by a solid 4.8%.
This was achieved despite the unfavorable cross-border environment as well as the temporary fiscal surplus throughout the year.
Furthermore, the economic KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND STRATEGY growth has been more inclusive, as unemployment dropped, and more sustainable, as the current account deficit improved.
In 2018, we continued to transform our banking business into more digital, customer focused and agile organization, whilst Together with strong exports and remittances, the tourism generating high returns and outpacing market in terms sector continued to play a key role in Georgias economic of loan book and deposit growth.
As a result of our strong development as tourism inflows increased by an estimated financial performance, I am pleased to announce that the 18.4% year-on-year in US$ terms and number of international Board recommended a dividend of 1.98 GEL per share, up by visitors exceeding 7.2 million.
Also, while the South Caucasus 20.7% compared to the last year.
Pipeline Extension project has been finalised in 2018, the One of our major achievements this year was launching Anaklia Deep Sea Port was launched with the aim of further the first fully digital bank in Georgia, Space.
This is a promoting the countrys pivotal role as a regional logistics unique solution, which challenges traditional approaches and transportation hub, and providing a further upside to to banking by creating a truly end-to-end digital experience the growth, together with other large scale infrastructure through intuitive interfaces and simple, real-time processes and energy sector-related projects.
As a result of strong 6 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 macroeconomic performance and launched strategic ACTING RESPONSIBLY initiatives, on February 22, 2019 Fitch Ratings upgraded Corporate responsibility is deeply embedded in our culture.
Georgias sovereign credit rating from BBto BB with stable We are dedicated to delivering value to our shareholders, outlook.
customers and business partners whilst preserving the environment, and making positive contribution to our While the banking sector has begun to export technologies community.
Each and every employee of the Group aspires to to other markets, the local capital market is gradually do business ethically and act with integrity and respect in all developing, with our subsidiary TBC Capital holding around his her undertakings.
half of the market share in locally-issued corporate bonds.
The pension system reform, which came into force in January In recognition of our efforts in this regards, in 2018 our 2019, is expected to contribute to the development of capital CEO, Vakhtang Butskhrikidze, won the Special Award for market in the country and further strengthen its economic Responsible Capitalism in Adversity from the prestigious growth potential.
FIRST organisation - a multidisciplinary international affairs organization, which aims to enhance dialogue between As a result of solid fundamentals, in 2018 projections for leaders in industry, finance and government.
This award Georgias high medium-term growth were confirmed above 3 comes in recognition of our commitment to adhere to the 5.0%.
It is important to highlight that Uzbekistan, where highest standards of corporate governance and to run the TBC Bank is developing an expansion plan, also enjoys a 4 business with integrity and responsibility towards all our growth potential above 5.0% it is a resilient economy with stakeholders.
an underdeveloped banking system and a story of reformdriven transition comparable to Georgias.
Projections for Our main CSR priorities remain supporting businesses, GDP growth are not as strong in Azerbaijan, however the the young generation, art and culture.
We believe these are country has significantly higher GDP per capita than Georgia aspects of great importance for our country.
In 2018, we and is making progress with regard to being better prepared implemented a series of projects in this regard including: to withstand fluctuations in oil prices.
financing the publication of the first book about Georgian history and culture by Oxford University: GOVERNANCE supporting Saba, Georgias main literary award, to As the chairman of TBC Bank, I am committed to ensuring th celebrate its sixteenth award-ceremony at the 70 an excellent governance and highest ethical standards within International Frankfurt Book Fair: the Group.
I am also committed to maintaining a diverse and developing various education projects for students: and wide-ranging set of skills and experiences within the Board.
I introducing an innovative business support platform.
believe such diversity is vital in order to ensure our business reaches is full potential.
Additional information is detailed in the chapter Doing business responsibly.
As already announced, we have appointed two women as Non-Executive Directors as part of our Board: Maria Luisa We are also proud contributors to the development of rugby Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia.
Ms. Cicognani and Ms. in the country and we are the title sponsor of the Georgian Kemularia have extensive international experience at the Rugby Union for the fourth year in a row.
The success in rugby some of the worlds leading financial institutions and will is important for the countrys image on the international stage bring further valuable perspectives and balance to our Board.
and it helps to promote a healthy lifestyle among the youth.
I am deeply saddened that Eric Rajendra has resigned from OUTLOOK the Board due to health reasons.
I would like to thank him for his contribution and dedication during the past years and wish We will continue to leverage on our strong digital capabilities him a speedy recovery.
and superior customer experience in order to better engage with our customers and improve their lives by developing the Further to the Companys announcement made on 21 most innovative solutions.
I am confident that our advanced February 2019, the Bank will implement a restructuring business model and highly professional and engaged of its Supervisory Board whereby Badri Japaridze and I team will enable us to generate strong returns and create will continue our roles only as the Deputy Chairman and sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Chairman of TBC Bank Group PLC, and be stepping down from the Supervisory Board of the JSC TBC Bank.
This On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the management will enable us to focus more on the Groups strategic and team and all employees for their outstanding efforts, international initiatives.
The Board of JSC TBC Bank will be commitment and diligence.
I strongly believe that together joined by two new members, which are being selected by the we will be able to overcome any challenges that lie ahead and Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee and will achieve our strategic priorities.
be announced in due course.
I would like thank all Directors for their significant contribution to the development and oversight of our strategic priorities as Mamuka Khazaradze well as close monitoring of risk management.
I am confident Chairman we are on the right track and that, with hard work and 2 April 2019 persistence, we will achieve our ambitious goals and create sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
1 The Fraser Institute compiles the annual Economic Freedom of the World report while Numbeo publishes the Crime Index 2 Based on initial estimates by Geostat 3 IMF WEO, October 2018 4 IMF WEO, October 2018 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 7
