CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report a satisfactory year for the Company, in which we achieved modest growth across all our key performance metrics in the face of challenging market conditions.
Adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 1.8% to 54.3m 2017: 53.3m, and statutory pre-tax profits were marginally ahead at 41.0m 2017: 40.9m, on revenue up by 7.1% to 792.9m 2017: 740.3m : adjusted earnings per share for the year rose by 3.4% to 55.1p 2017: 53.3p, and statutory EPS increased by 2.1% to 38.8p 2017: 38.0p all these figures exclude the prior year financial contribution from our minority shareholding in Opus which was sold in February 2017 generating an exceptional profit of 62.3m.
Growth in customer and service numbers was held back by the large gap between standard variable energy tariffs and aggressively priced introductory deals from certain other suppliers, which persisted throughout the year.
Against this competitive background, it is pleasing that full year customer and service numbers continued to grow, rising to 610,739 2017: 607,802 and 2,340,719 2017: 2,288,918 respectively.
Within these headline figures there has been a further significant improvement in the quality of our customer base, with 120,329 2017: 102,126 residential Members now taking all our core services landline, broadband, mobile, gas and electricity.
We received a number of awards during the year recognising both the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK-based membership support teams, including being rated by independent consumer champions Which?
as The Top Supplier and or as a Recommended Provider for all our core services: Energy, Broadband Telephony and Mobile: we also received three awards from Moneywise.
We were particularly delighted to receive the prestigious accolade of Utilities Provider of the Year at the recent Which?
Whilst each of our core services has been recognised individually by them on many occasions as amongst the best in the market, this is the first time that our unique multi-utility brand and the excellence we deliver across the board has been recognised in this way.
These third party independent and prestigious endorsements are testament to our customer-centric approach, our commitment to treating our Members fairly, our ongoing mission to be the Nations most trusted utility provider, and the significant resources invested in delivering the best possible customer service.
4 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RESULTS OVERVIEW Revenues rose on the back of an industry wide increase in retail energy tariffs during Spring 2017, a colder winter than the previous year, modest growth in the total number of services we supply, and rising penetration of fibre broadband and mobile.
Countering these positive factors, an increasing proportion of Members benefitting from our cheapest Double Gold tariffs, and a reduction in average energy usage reflecting the progressive impact of industry-wide energy efficiency measures enhanced by our successful LED light bulb replacement service both acted to hold back revenue growth.
Our adjusted profit from continuing operations ie: excluding the contribution from Opus that was sold in February 2017 predominantly reflects the continuing modest organic growth over the last two years in the number of services we are providing to our Members, improved commercial terms from our wholesale partners, some early benefits from our smart meter roll-out programme, continued investment in headcount and increased spending on technology and systems.
Dividend In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 26p 2017: 25p, bringing the total for the year to 50p 2017: 48p : this represents an increase of 4.2% compared with last year, and will be paid on 3 August 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 July 2018 subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM which will be held on 26 July 2018.
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy consistent with the underlying strong cash generation of our business.
Share Buyback In light of our particularly strong balance sheet and cap-ex light business model, and to prevent the level of excess capital on our balance sheet continuing to increase, we announced in our interim management report our intention until further notice to use any retained profits from this and any future financial periods to buy back shares in the market.
To that end, we intend shortly to buy back shares with an aggregate value of 4.7m.
Churn Against a background in which record numbers of households are switching their energy supplier encouraged by government, press, the CMA and Ofgem, our churn remains significantly below prevailing industry levels.
We attribute this to a combination of factors including our consistently low pricing approach, high standards of customer service, unique route to market, the steadily improving quality of our customer base and increased investment by us in retention activities, partially offset by the continuing large gap between standard variable tariffs and introductory deals.
Proposed Energy Price Cap We welcome the proposed energy price cap which has now passed the Committee Stage at the House of Lords without amendment.
We believe this will create a fairer energy market by narrowing the gap between standard variable tariffs paid predominantly by millions of disengaged households and the introductory fixed price deals available to those who choose to switch supplier on a regular basis.
Whilst the implementation date and level of the cap have not yet been finalised, Ofgem has recently published a timetable subject to consultation suggesting it will become effective at the end of December Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED 2018, subject to an initial review that will be effective from 1 April 2019, and further reviews effective sixmonthly thereafter.
The level will clearly depend on commodity and policy price movements.
We will be sheltered from the full impact of this price cap under our wholesale supply arrangements with npower, and we look forward to passing these lower energy prices onto our customers with the consequential improvement in our competitive position it implies.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Insurance We are encouraged by the early results from our Home Insurance service, which is starting to gather momentum.
By the end of May 2018 we had collected over 75,000 renewals dates from our membership, to whom we can send targeted direct marketing over the course of the coming year: we anticipate this will enable us to grow our policy book from c. 5,000 to c. 20,000 over the course of the current year.
Our consistently low price approach to setting premiums is unusual within the insurance sector, and means that in many cases Members are actually seeing the cost of their insurance fall when their UW insurance policy comes up for renewal: as a result, we are seeing average renewal rates in excess of 95%.
We are currently working on launching both Home Care Insurance and a Boiler Maintenance Policy for our Members, which will complement our recent purchase of Glow Green Limited.
Expanding into these areas has been a long-term aspiration for us, as these policies are directly relevant to the core services we are already providing to our Members, and we are excited by the significant market opportunity this opens up for us with over five million UK households currently taking these types of cover from another supplier.
We remain confident that Insurance has the potential to make a material contribution to the financial performance of the group in due course.
Energy The energy market remains polarised between the Big 6, who are trying with some success to maintain profitability at the expense of seeing their market share shrink, and an increasing number of independent suppliers, who are growing their customer numbers whilst incurring significant losses.
The downward trend in energy prices which prevailed for most of the last four years has started to reverse, with rising commodity prices being accompanied by higher regulatory, distribution and policy costs: this has led to higher retail prices for both standard variable tariffs and, to a lesser extent, on fixed price introductory deals.
However, a large gap between the top and bottom of the market remains, caused by a combination of regulatory cost exemptions enjoyed by smaller suppliers, their lower operating costs associated mainly with not having a legacy customer base, and their decision to price retail energy tariffs at whatever price is needed to attract new customers irrespective of whether this generates a positive margin.
We find it difficult to understand how this multitude of sub-scale competitors can develop viable long-term business models, given their similar wholesale cost structures, similar distribution channels focussed on lowestprice retail propositions and high levels of churn as customers who had chosen to switch to them based predominantly on price, actively search the market for further savings as soon as they reach the end of their introductory fixed-price period.
6 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In contrast, our approach is to offer consistently fair pricing combined with a unique range of other benefits, in order to attract and retain good quality multi-utility customers.
This has enabled us to deliver consistent albeit modest growth in both service numbers and profitability, in contrast to either the Big 6 or other independent suppliers.
Amongst the unique benefits we offer is Project Daffodil, an innovative free LED light bulb replacement service.
We are currently providing this service to around 3,000 households each month, and have so far installed approaching 3,000,000 energy efficient bulbs in more than 78,000 Members homes both new and existing who have switched their energy and telephony services to us.
By reducing household electricity usage, Daffodil goes a long way towards narrowing the gap between our energy prices and the introductory tariffs available elsewhere: this has been a major factor behind the improvement in the quality of new Members joining the Club, as well as encouraging our longer-standing Members to add additional services in order to take advantage of this valuable benefit.
We made good progress during the year with our smart meter roll-out programme, achieving an installed base of over 207,000 largely dual fuel meters by the end of the financial year: this represents 21.6% of our residential meter portfolio and puts us slightly ahead of the average for the industry as a whole.
This performance was achieved despite the continuing failure of our contracted meter operators to meet their agreed service levels, which has contributed to a small rise in delinquency levels.
We anticipate the pace at which we install meters will pick up rapidly over the next two years as we work towards meeting our BEIS targets, although there is a risk that the planned changeover from SMETS1 to SMETS2 second generation smart meters later this year could disrupt our planned rollout schedule.
The financial benefits from this programme excluding any timing differences which may arise between when costs are incurred and when they are recovered remain subject to considerable uncertainty, and are partly dependent on the speed and efficiency of our roll-out relative to other suppliers.
Improving our customer proposition We made some key enhancements to our mobile service during the year, introducing larger data bundles and significantly reducing the cost of roaming both in the EU and worldwide both of which have led to improved take-up of this service amongst our Members.
We have a competitive two-year fixed energy tariff available to Members new and existing who are taking their Energy, Broadband and Mobile services from us.
We have recently launched an improved CashBack card, giving Members the opportunity to significantly increase their annual savings, by enabling them to earn CashBack wherever they shop.
Our mobile app has been enhanced, and is increasingly being used by Members to submit meter readings, top-up their mobile and or CashBack card, track their mobile usage, and find their nearest CashBack retail outlets.
Further improvements to its functionality are planned going forward.
Our drive to encourage Members to receive their monthly bill electronically is progressing well, with 59% 2017: 47% no longer receiving a paper copy: as this proportion continues to rise, we will benefit from increased operational efficiency from the ability to smooth out the peaks in the volume of inbound customer service calls.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED In May 2018, we acquired a 75% shareholding in Glow Green Limited Glow Green, a small fast-growing supplier installer of domestic gas boilers and warranty care plans for consideration of 1.5m.
In addition, we have provided Glow Green with a 0.5m repayable working capital loan facility.
Our intention is to support their existing management team in implementing their exciting and ambitious growth plans for the business which include creating a nationwide engineering footprint by providing the relatively modest working capital they need to achieve their ambitions, and promoting their services to our membership base.
In addition to supporting the launch of new Home Care insurance policies and Boiler Maintenance plans, Glow Green will also enable us to offer new gas boilers to our Members as their existing ones reach the end of their useful lives: this is another significant potential market, and we look forward to building a progressively increasing share of it over the coming years.
Information Technology We continue to increase our investment in IT, which is at the core of our business.
Important projects have included preparing for GDPR, strengthening our cyber-defences, updating our technology and systems generally, and preparing for the mass rollout of smart metering.
ROUTE TO MARKET Our network of almost 40,000 Partners represents one of our core strengths, and we are totally committed to helping them build successful independent businesses which generate significant residual incomes.
We are encouraged at the steady number of new Partners signing up to the opportunity, which has been broadly constant at about 600-800 per month since the start of the current calendar year.
These Partners continue to introduce high quality new Members in significant volumes, and we are constantly looking for ways to help them achieve this in even greater numbers by improving our customer proposition, training tools, and sign-up processes and to motivate them to do so by enhancing the compensation plan and offering a range of holiday incentive trips.
We recognise it has been more challenging for Partners to gather new Members and build their Utility Warehouse businesses when there are such large pricing differentials in the energy markets, but we have been pleased that so many of them still achieved significant success during the year by focussing on the unique strengths of our proposition and the exclusive benefits we offer.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code encourages the Chairman to report personally on how the principles in the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
As a board we are responsible to the Companys shareholders for delivering sustainable shareholder value over the long term through effective management and good governance.
A key role of mine, as Executive Chairman, is to provide strong leadership to enable the Board to operate effectively.
We believe that open and rigorous debate around key strategic issues and risks faced by the Company is important in achieving our objectives and the Company is fortunate to have non-executive directors with diverse and extensive business experience who actively contribute to these discussions.
8 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further detail of the Companys governance processes and compliance with the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
OUTLOOK Recent Trading Our annual sales conference took place on 17 18 March 2018, and was attended by over 5,000 Partners.
We highlighted the strong alignment of interest that exists between the Company and the Partner Network under the theme One Team One Dream, and announced the launch of an improved CashBack card and a new range of Mobile tariffs, both of which were extremely well received.
These changes have led to an encouraging rise in the number of new Members being gathered during the first quarter, accompanied by a significant improvement in their quality, with a record level over 55% switching all their services to us.
Energy Prices and Regulatory Changes Forward energy commodity prices have risen by around 19% since 1 January 2018, and non-commodity costs e. g. distribution, renewables, smart-meter roll-out, etc are also on a rising trend.
This has exerted upward pressure on retail energy prices, with all the Big 6 having recently announced modest increases to their standard variable tariffs: we have informed our Members that our own tariffs will also be increasing from 1 July, albeit that they will remain up to 5% cheaper than the average of the equivalent tariffs available from the Big 6.
Counterintuitively, these higher wholesale costs have not as yet been reflected in the introductory retail prices offered by smaller new entrants, whose customer acquisition strategy appears to rely upon having a retail price position at or towards the top of price comparison site results, irrespective of the impact this will have on their profitability and or cashflow.
This is clearly not sustainable, as has been demonstrated by the number of smaller independent suppliers who have ceased trading recently.
In the absence of strong balance sheets to absorb the losses they will be making, and or a collapse in commodity prices, further insolvencies seem inevitable.
These dynamics have led to a continuing large gap between the cheapest introductory deals and standard variable tariffs, which seems likely to remain until Ofgem implement the price cap on standard variable tariffs, currently expected at the end of December 2018.
The financial impact of this cap on suppliers will depend inter alia on their cost structures, operational efficiency, tariff mix and hedging strategy.
For us, our wholesale energy supply arrangements are expected to shelter our margins, with the downward pressure on profits from lower prices being offset by faster growth and lower churn over the medium term.
Overall, we strongly welcome this initiative.
We note the recent corporate activity relating to npower, a wholly owned subsidiary of Innogy.
npower and SSE have agreed subject to regulatory approval to merge their UK supply businesses, and separately, Eon has agreed to acquire Innogy also subject to regulatory approval.
If concluded, either of these transactions may enable us to improve our current wholesale terms, making our retail energy proposition even more competitive in the future.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Competition and Markets Authority published their final report on the domestic energy market during 2017.
Their proposals to remove the previous restrictions on discounts, bundling, and the number of tariffs each supplier can offer have now largely been implemented, but there are widespread concerns within the industry that Ofgem seem committed to persevering with their proposed database of disengaged customers, notwithstanding that the impending price cap will significantly reduce the issue that the database was designed to address: the likely impact of this will be greater bureaucracy, more churn and increased supplier costs, which will inevitably be reflected in higher overall energy prices for everyone.
We accept that regulation has an important role to play in ensuring the energy markets are operating in a transparent manner, creating a framework which encourages real competition, protecting the rights of consumers, and ensuring they receive a fair deal for their energy.
However, there are too many instances where decisions are being made which unnecessarily increase supplier costs, with the burden ultimately falling on consumers.
One such area is in relation to so-called small supplier exemptions enjoyed by suppliers with less than 250,000 customers.
These create significant distortions and widespread consumer detriment, and we are encouraged that a consensus seems to be building that these exemptions are no longer serving the purpose for which they were conceived, and ought to be scrapped.
Prospects Successfully navigating the constant stream of changes flowing across all the sectors in which we operate has been challenging, however, our experienced senior management team have demonstrated their consistent ability to do so in a way which is creating significant and growing value for all our stakeholders.
After four years of modest growth, achieved in the face of fierce headwinds, our competitive position and the market environment for our unique multi-utility proposition are starting to improve.
On Mobile, we have recently introduced an attractive range of new tariffs, designed to address the needs of a broader cross-section of the population.
The combination of attractive benefits, value and service provided by our mobile proposition was recognised by Which?
magazine in their most recent survey of the mobile market, when they awarded us Recommended Provider status and ranked us ahead of all other suppliers.
As a result, we anticipate that penetration of Mobile within our customer base will continue to increase over the current year.
On Home Insurance, the rate at which we add new policies is expected to increase as we add further underwriters to our panel and fine-tune our marketing to existing Members, over 75,000 of whom have already provided us with the policy renewal date for their current provider.
The feedback we are receiving and the high renewal rates we are seeing in excess of 95% from Members reaching the first anniversary of their UW home insurance policy, make us increasingly confident this service will make a material contribution to the business in due course.
On Energy, we look forward to the price cap taking effect later this year, which we anticipate will lead to faster customer growth for a number of reasons: i it will reduce the cost of standard variable tariffs throughout the industry, which will lower our wholesale cost and therefore make us more competitive: ii it will remove the opportunity for other suppliers to use the excess profits they are making from their legacy 10 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements unengaged customer bases, towards funding introductory deals for new customers: and iii a smaller gap between SVTs and introductory fixed tariffs will reduce churn, create higher Partner confidence and thus drive more activity.
Partner confidence should be further enhanced by our recent recognition by Which?
the UKs leading independent consumer champion as the Utilities Provider of the Year for 2018.
This is a hugely powerful endorsement of our business model, our commitment to treating our Members fairly, the trust we are building, and the consistently good value and great service we deliver.
We will seek to leverage this endorsement over the next twelve months, working closely with our Partners, to help them increase the conversion ratio amongst potential customers they approach, and to encourage more new Partners to join.
Our strategy of achieving consistent high quality growth through delivering savings, simplicity and exceptional customer service continues to bear fruit.
We have seen a significant improvement in the proportion of new Members who are switching all their services to us over the course of the last two years from c. 35% to over 50% : these better quality customers have the highest expected lifetime value, although they cost significantly more to acquire.
From a financial perspective, the outcome for this year will depend on when the proposed energy price cap becomes effective, which Ofgem have indicated subject to consultation will happen on 31 December 2018.
On that basis, we remain comfortable with our guidance range for this years adjusted pre-tax profits of 55m-60m, which would enable us to increase our dividend to not less than 52p per share for the current year.
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and Partners for their loyalty and hard work.
As a team, we remain committed to building this business to one million households and beyond over the coming years, and I look forward to the opportunities and value that achieving this goal will create for all stakeholders.
Charles Wigoder Executive Chairman 18 June 2018 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 11
