CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The 35th consecutive year in which the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
PERFORMANCE The Managers Review on pages 4 to 7 sets out some of the main themes which drove both portfolio construction and I am delighted to present my first annual statement as performance during the year, including comments on some of Chairman of the Company.
Firstly, I must reiterate my thanks the positive and negative contributors to performance at an to my predecessor, John Reeve, for his diligent stewardship individual stock level.
over the 26 year period that he served on the Board.
In his last report to shareholders John commented on the DIVIDEND protracted timescale in which the Value investing style had There have been three interim dividend payments during been out of favour relative to other styles, suggesting that the year each of 8.75p per share and the directors are now while there had been brief periods during which the tide recommending a final dividend payment for the year ended appeared to be turning in favour of Value those rallies had 31 December 2018 of 20.47p per share to be paid on 29 March generally been fairly short lived.
This theme continued into 2019 to those shareholders on the register as at 8 March 2018, causing a negative impact on the short to near term 2019.
The ex-dividend date for this payment is 7 March 2019. performance of Temple Bar compared with its nominated If approved this would give an increase in the total dividend payment for the year of 10.0%.
This signi cant increase in benchmark index.
During the year the total return on the the dividend is possible due to the accretion to revenue net assets of Temple Bar was -11.2%, underperforming the reserves in recent years and the availability of income in the total return of the FTSE All Share Index of -9.5%.
This will be the 35th consecutive year in which continues to attach greater signi cance to the longer term the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
The performance and in this context I am pleased to report that Board is proud of the Companys record of generating long on the same basis Temple Bar continues to outperform its term dividend growth, such consistency being re ected in benchmark over ten year s, as demonstrated by the chart on Temple Bars status as one of The Association of Investment page 11.
GEARING In recent years the Companys xed long term borrowings have largely been offset by a fairly high cash or near cash position on the portfolio pending the emergence of attractively priced investment opportunities.
However, in the year under review our investment manager identi ed an increasing number of such opportunities into which he has invested a signi cant proportion of that cash near cash position.
As a consequence, at the year end, gearing calculated net of cash and related liquid assets, including our investment in a UK short dated gilt increased to 9.1%.
The higher investment level at the year-end supports the Boards decision in 2017 to replace the expensive 25m 9.875% debenture with an additional private placement loan in the same amount but with a much more attractive coupon of 2.99%.
An important factor in taking out this replacement loan was to secure attractive xed rate funding for the purposes of pursuing the Companys investment objectives over a 30 year period.
THE BOARD As stated above, John Reeve retired as Chairman in May 2018 and I am honoured to have been chosen as his successor.
We were very sorry to lose the services of Nick Lyons as a director in August, due to time pressures from his new commitments elsewhere.
As part of the orderly transition and refreshment of the Board to which John referred in his last statement, June fide Moller will be retiring at the AGM and will not, therefore, be seeking re-election.
We are extremely grateful to June for the valuable insights that she has provided during her 12 years on the Board and wish her well for the future.
In order to maintain continuity through this refreshment process, Richard Jewson has kindly agreed to remain on the Board, but will stand down at some point during the current year.
It is expected that there will be two new appointments to the Board in the coming months, at least one of whom will be female.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 2 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our preference is to focus on individual companys financial strength and performance rather than seek to predict the direction of markets.
Every year the Board undertakes a thorough evaluation of harmful to humans and addictive in nature, undermining each director, including myself as Chairman.
In line with best the autonomous choice of the consumer to decide if he she practice in this regard, all directors are subject to annual rewishes to harm him herself in this manner, and the product election by shareholders.
offers no signi cant bene t to consumer welfare to justify the harm.
Clearly, which stocks fall foul of these criteria can PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES change over time.
At present this approach would lead to Shareholders will of course be aware that Alastair Mundy the exclusion of tobacco stocks from portfolio construction.
has managed the Temple Bar portfolio for many years.
During the coming months the Board will be canvassing What might not be apparent, though, is that Alastair has shareholder opinion on this matter and would welcome behind him a large group of analysts in Investec Asset feedback from all shareholders.
Managements UK Value team working hard in evaluating numerous investment opportunities.
The Board believes that ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING it is now appropriate more overtly to recognise this situation The AGM this year will be held at 30 Gresham Street, and to put it on a more formal footing, so it has been agreed London EC2V 7QP on Thursday 28 March 2019 at 11am.
that Peter Lowery will be appointed as the Companys Please note that this is a different building in Gresham Street deputy portfolio manager with immediate effect.
Peter and not where the AGM was held last year.
joined IAM in 2003 and has worked closely with Alastair on matters related to Temple Bar ever since.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting the portfolio manager will, as usual, make a presentation SHARE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
Temple Bars shares traded at a small discount throughout He will also be available to answer questions, as will the most of the year and at the year end the discount stood at directors.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are 3.7%.
The Board is prepared to undertake share buy backs encouraged to use their proxy votes.
if the discount widens both in absolute terms and relative to OUTLOOK the Companys peer group.
While no share repurchases took place during the year, the Board nonetheless recommends So far this year there have been encouraging signs that that the existing authorities to issue new ordinary shares and the anti-Value stance of the market might be beginning to to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation or to hold reverse and performance in January was impressive as a in Treasury be continued.
Accordingly, it is seeking approval result.
It is still, however, very early days.
from shareholders to renew the share issue and repurchase We continue to face several political and economic risks authorities at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
over the short to medium term, not least the rami cations PROPOSED CHANGE TO INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES of Brexit negotiations.
But havent there always been uncertainties of some description?
Temple Bar has faced AND POLICY many of these over its long life and successfully negotiated At its strategy session in September 2018 the Board them to provide good long term returns to its shareholders conducted a thorough review of the Companys investment by exploiting value opportunities arising from the resultant objectives and policy.
As a consequence of this review a few dislocations.
A return to more volatile market conditions, changes to this policy are being proposed.
These are set out while undoubtedly offering a bumpy ride, is likely to play to on page 9 together with an explanation of the reasons why Temple Bars strengths.
the changes are believed to be bene cial.
Our preference stated on many occasions is to focus on The Board is therefore seeking shareholder approval at the an individual companys financial strength and performance AGM to amend the Companys investment objectives and rather than seek to predict the direction of markets.
Through policy to incorporate these changes which, if approved, will maintaining our approach of investing in a diversi ed take effect immediately following the AGM.
portfolio of mainly UK domiciled companies and with strict The Board takes a long term, stewardship approach to the adherence to a Value based approach we believe that management of its assets and this is also the approach of its Temple Bar can continue to prosper, notwithstanding future fund manager, Investec Asset Management.
Furthermore, Temple Bar is well positioned to means that where an investee company poses challenging maintain its policy of paying a high and growing dividend for issues on an ethical or governance front, the manager will the foreseeable future.
engage with company management over the long haul to improve the situation.
Arthur Copple In addition, the Board is actively considering whether there Chairman are some stocks whose very business model is arguably inherently unethical, even when legal, and whether the 2 1 February 2019 Trust should seek to pro t from opportunities offered in such areas.
These are stocks whose product is both TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 3
