Chairmans Statement Market Overview and Investment Performance I reported at the half year stage that the recovery in the performance of emerging markets had continued.
Since that time, and particularly in the current calendar year, volatility has returned.
This is at least in part driven by global politics, with the US moving towards protectionism.
While markets have reacted to this, the reaction has been more muted than was expected in some quarters.
This possibly reflects the growing economic strength and autonomy of some of the countries in our investment universe where intra-regional trade has greatly increased, particularly in Asia, thereby reducing dependence on the US and Europe.
Despite this increased volatility, it is pleasing to report over the year under review a further double digit NAV total return and further marginal out-performance of our benchmark index, as set out in the table on page 1.
Revenue, Earnings and Dividend Underlying revenues were significantly higher than in the previous accounting period.
Furthermore, as announced in last years Annual Report, with effect from 1 April 2017, 70% of the annual AIFM fee and of the cost of borrowing is allocated to the capital account.
This allocation reflects the Boards assessment of the likely ratio of long-term capital and revenue returns.
The combined effect of the increased revenues and the change in the allocation of costs was to increase revenue earnings per share substantially, from 6.59 pence to 15.90 pence.
Your Board recommends a final dividend of 15.00 pence per share, an increase of 81.8% from 8.25 pence last year.
In light of the increased revenue and recognising that many investors place a high value on a regular income, your Board believes that it would be beneficial in future to pay two dividends per year.
These will be announced with the half yearly and full year results, with a first interim dividend to be declared with the half year results for the six months to September 2018.
As I and my predecessor have consistently pointed out, our Investment Managers primary focus is on generating capital returns and we do not target a particular level of income.
The Investment Manager On 1 February 2018 we announced that Chetan Sehgal, Director of Portfolio Management overseeing the global emerging markets strategy at Franklin Templeton, had been appointed Lead Portfolio Manager of TEMIT.
Chetans appointment followed the resignation from Franklin Templeton of our previous Lead Portfolio Manager, Carlos Hardenberg.
Chetan has been an investment manager with Franklin Templeton in emerging markets for over 22 years.
During much of that time, Chetan worked closely with Carlos and was a key contributor in delivering TEMITs out-performance through in-depth research and investment execution decisions.
The Investment Manager will continue to adhere to the time-tested Templeton investment philosophy of bottom up, long-term, value oriented emerging markets investing.
The TEMIT Board believes that the appointment of Chetan as Lead Portfolio Manager will continue the strong Templeton legacy and will enable the Company to produce superior long term returns.
The Board looks forward to working with Chetan and his colleagues.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 5 Chairmans Statement continued On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Carlos for his contribution to TEMIT over the past several years.
Asset Allocation and Borrowing The Investment Manager continued to deploy gearing in a cautious manner over the year under review.
As at 31 March 2018, the current bank debt facility was fully drawn down and the level of gearing net of cash in the portfolio was 3.3%.
If no cash had been held in the portfolio, based on the net asset value as at close of business on 31 March 2018, gearing would have been 6.5%.
The Discount During the year to 31 March 2018, TEMITs shares traded at discounts of between 9.2% and 14.5%, and on 31March 2018 the discount was 12.2%.
Your Board continues to exercise its right to buy back shares when it believes this to be in shareholders interests and with the aim of controlling volatility in the discount.
We dealt in the market regularly over the year and, in total, bought back 9,661,644 shares, or 3.4% of the shares in issue at the start of the financial year.
The effect of buying back shares at a discount was to increase the NAV per share for remaining shareholders by 0.4%.
As at 31 March 2018, TEMIT held 5,956,611 shares in treasury.
The key advantage of shares held in treasury is that they can be reissued quickly and at minimal cost.
In order to protect the interests of existing shareholders, shares held in treasury will only be reissued at a price above the prevailing NAV per share at the time of reissue.
For most of last year, and despite the strong investment performance, the discount remained stubbornly wide.
We were, however, encouraged to see that the discount narrowed and remained stable from mid-December until the end of January.
However, we were disappointed to see it come under pressure again in February and March as volatility returned to markets.
While share buy backs can help limit the supply of shares, it is equally important to stimulate demand.
As mentioned in last years Annual Report, your Board agreed with Franklin Templeton that the resources devoted to marketing would be increased, with the aim of stimulating demand for TEMITs shares.
A comprehensive marketing plan has been put in place.
Over the past year, Franklin Templeton has launched a revamped website www.
co. uk which is optimised for mobile devices as well as desktop computers, launched on Twitter @ TEMIT and managed effective online advertising and media relations programmes, all of which have increased our profile.
Our website displays the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio details, updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website you can also ask to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to you.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you informed about your Company.
Investor Communications The Board and Investment Manager aim to keep shareholders informed and up-to-date with information about TEMIT as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
I am aware that shareholders may, on occasion, wish to contact me or my fellow Board members directly and not via our Investment Manager.
While our Investment Manager will, in most cases, be best placed to handle enquiries, I am at your disposal to receive any 6 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Chairmans Statement continued questions or comments, as is the Senior Independent Director or any of the other Directors, all of whom may be reached via our brokers whose contact details are enclosed at the end of this report.
AIFM Fees The current annual AIFM fee is 1% of net assets up to 2 billion and 0.85% of net assets above that level.
We have agreed with Franklin Templeton that, with effect from 1 July 2018, the annual AIFM fee will be reduced to 1% of net assets up to 1 billion and 0.85% of net assets above 1 billion.
The Board As previously announced, Hamish Buchan will step down from the Board at the conclusion of this years AGM.
I would like to record your Boards thanks to Hamish for his considerable contribution to TEMIT since his appointment in 2008.
Beatrice Hollond will replace Hamish as Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM.
Charlie Ricketts will join the Board at the conclusion of the AGM subject to shareholder approval.
With over 30 years experience in the investment trust sector, he brings a wealth of experience to the Board.
Charlie was Head of Investment Funds at Cenkos Securities for 8 years and prior to that was Managing Director, Head of Investment Companies at UBS Investment Bank.
Since stepping down from Cenkos in 2014 he has pursued a number of business and charitable interests.
Outlook Since the fourth quarter of 2015 we have experienced a substantial recovery in emerging markets and in TEMITs performance relative to those markets, as measured by our benchmark index.
However, in recent months markets have moved on from a benign phase with share prices subject to much more volatility.
Our Investment Manager takes a long term approach to investment, driven by detailed, fundamental analysis of the individual companies in which they choose to invest.
An integral part of the Investment Managers philosophy has been to see through the noise and your Board continues to encourage an approach of seeking fundamental value with a long term time horizon.
Emerging markets remain, on most metrics, less expensive than their developed counterparts and your Board and Investment Manager remain of the view that an investment in TEMIT should provide attractive rewards over the long term.
Annual General Meeting I would like to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London at 12 noon on Thursday 12 July 2018.
There will be an opportunity to meet the Board and the Lead Portfolio Manager and to hear the latest news on your Company, its investments and the markets, as well as take part in the formal annual meeting.
More details of the meeting can be found on pages 89 to 92 of this report.
Paul Manduca Chairman 5 June 2018 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 7
