Strategic report Chairmans statement A platform for growth.
Following completion of the merger, I am delighted to welcome two new Directors to the Board: Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland.
Charles has been appointed to the role of CEO for our retail and wholesale operations in the UK & ROI, while Stewart has joined the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Both Charles and Stewart bring substantial levels of experience and expertise, and I know that our business will benefit greatly from their talents.
I would also like to take the opportunity here to welcome the very many new shareholders in Tesco, who took up our shares as part of the merger.
I look forward to meeting many of you over the coming months, and to hearing your views.
Throughout the year, the Board has dedicated significant time to overseeing the merger process, as well as continuing its close involvement in matters of strategy.
The Board has also supported the development of our corporate responsibility strategy for the Group, which culminated in the launch of the Little Helps Plan in October 2017.
The plan sets out how we will make a positive contribution to our colleagues, customers and communities as a sustainable business that also takes a lead on issues of societal importance, such as health and tackling food waste.
More details on the Little Helps Plan, and the commitments we have made, can be found starting on page 16 of the Strategic report.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to every We have made substantial progress this year, colleague at Tesco.
I firmly believe that the retail as we position our business for new growth.
industry, and Tesco in particular, have an important role in helping people to develop fulfilling and The management team has built solid foundations successful careers.
Almost a quarter of our most and operating profit before exceptional items senior leaders began their careers in stores and, for the Group is up 28.4% to 1,644m as I travel around our business, I am constantly 2016 17: 1,280m, with statutory profit before impressed by the calibre and experience of the tax of 1,298m 2016 17: 145m.
colleagues I meet, from a very diverse range of backgrounds.
Tesco is a powerful engine of This greatly improved performance has also social mobility, and creating opportunities for allowed us to make a return to paying dividends, colleagues to get on in their careers is a focus for the first time since 2014. for us at every level of our business.
I would like to pay tribute to The decision to reinstate the dividend was a It is our colleagues dedication, and relentless particularly important one, and reflects the focus on doing the right thing for our customers, every colleague at Tesco.
conviction that the Board and I have in Dave that has enabled us to build the strong platform and his team, and the progress we are seeing.
John Allan Non-executive Chairman So it is from this strong position that we also look I am confident that the Board and management ahead to the new opportunities presented by our team have the right plans in place to build from merger with Booker Group.
that platform and continue to grow.
Shortly after the end of our financial year, and That will be our collective focus for the coming Watch our videos.
following regulatory and shareholder approval, year, and beyond, as we create long-term value Visit www.
com ar2018 we completed that merger.
for every stakeholder in our business.
to hear more from John Allan.
Work is already well underway to unlock the substantial synergies that are now available to the combined Group.
Bringing together John Allan knowledge and skills from across retail and Non-executive Chairman wholesale is both allowing us to trial innovative new concepts and to move faster with existing strategies, for example in rapidly growing the fresh food offer available to Bookers customers.
3 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
