Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FRANK MEYSMAN Our shareholders rightly expect to see the fruits of our strategic execution in the financial results.
The full benefit of the changes that management has been making to the business are taking time to come through, reflecting in part the complexity, scale and cost of thetransformation required.
2018 has been a year of mixed fortunes The launch in March of our hotel fund in The Board will continue to focus management for Thomas Cook.
Although we made partnership with Swiss hotel property on executing the strategy with pace and considerable progress on strategy, development company LMEY was an commitment.
You can be assured that the achieving a number ofimportant important milestone in accelerating the Board is conscious of its duty to unlock fully milestones, the year-end result was expansion of our own-brand hotels and the potential of this business for the benefit disappointing.
A period of prolonged hot resorts business.
With five initial seed of all stakeholders.
weather across our European markets assets, the fund has agreed another two Turning to the business of the Board, Group in the critical last few months of trading development projects and has successfully Chief Financial Officer Bill Scott decided to exposed the fact that we have more to do to secured 40 million debt funding, enabling step down in September.
Bill will leave the in the waywe manage operational risk and us to more easily finance our expansion Board on 30 November, following the full-year execute the strategy in our key markets.
andincrease the proportion of owned results announcement.
On behalf of the Board, properties in the portfolio.
In many respects, it was a year of two halves.
I would like to thank Bill for his contribution The business had a good first six months and The other side to the strategy is partnering tothe business over the last six years.
delivered improved financial results in May.
with the best in the industry to offer The Board has named Sten Daugaard as Group However, the summer heatwave impacted customers increased choice.
The launch Chief Financial Officer on an interim basis.
both customer and competitive behaviour, ofour ground-breaking alliance with Expedia He brings more than 30 years of experience leaving our Tour Operator business with in our first five markets this autumn, was in senior financial positions in international too many holidays left to sell in a heavily a big step forward.
This gives us access to companies and is also a member of the Board discounted environment.
On revenues of best-in-class technology, many more hotels of Thomas Cook GmbH, Germany.
He joined 9.6 billion, up 574 million on the previous of ensured quality, and all at lower cost to the business on 1 October and is formally year, the Group delivered operating profit our business.
appointed to his role on 1 December.
of 97 million, and net loss after tax of Of course, our shareholders rightly expect 163 million.
I would also like to thank all of our people to see the fruits of our strategic execution across the Group for the work that they do, Despite the final result, the Board is confident in thefinancial results.
What 2018 has day to day, to give our 22 million customers the the strategy for profitable growth the team demonstrated is that the full benefit of best weeks of their year.
And thank you to you has been pursuing is the right one.
In an the changes that management has been our Shareholders for your support as we put increasingly competitive environment, itis making to the business are taking time Thomas Cook on a path to profitable growth.
evident that the successful businesses will be to come through.
This reflects in part those that clearly differentiate their offering the complexity, scale and cost of the FRANK MEYSMAN and create real value for the customer.
Consequently, CHAIRMAN inayear of exceptional weather across our A key part of that strategy is an increased source markets, the benefits of ourstrategic focus on our core sun and beach holidays, progress were not enough to offset the 28 November 2018 and in particular our own-brand hotels extreme pressure on margins.
wherewe have higher control over quality and where we earn a much higher return.
