Chairmans statement Keeping the Group positioned for success in 2019 and beyond.
Manfred Wennemer Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am delighted to present our 2018 Annual Report following our first full year of listing on the London Stock Exchange.
In 2018 the Group achieved strong growth and solid financial results despite a slightly softening global light vehicle production environment.
The Group also made significant progress with respect to its Electric Vehicle EV and Hybrid Electric Vehicle HEV strategy with key business awards for the supply of thermal management systems for EV platforms and additionally, pressurised fuel tanks for HEV platforms.
Our consistent performance is the result of the Group having established trusted relationships with our OEM customers, our technology leadership, global manufacturing footprint and strong management team.
2018 performance overview We have delivered another year of positive financial performance in line with our For more expectations.
Revenue grew by 2.0% at information constant currency to 3,473 million 2017: about our 3,491 million which is 3.1% above global governance go to page 36 light vehicle production growth.
Adjusted TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 08 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Net Income grew by 19 million to 155 their shares to enhance the liquidity in million 2017: 136 million.
Adjusted Free the Companys shares.
As a result, BC Cash Flow was very strong at 146 million Omega reduced its shareholding to 54.4% 2017: 119 million.
The Company is pleased to have a diversified share register of quality institutional investors, the majority Corporate developments of which are from the United Kingdom.
In July 2018, the Group successfully refinanced a significant portion of its debt by repaying all of its remaining 8.75% During the year, the Group has directly unsecured senior notes using cash and engaged with a considerable number of additional borrowing under its term loan institutional investors through a variety of facility.
The annualised interest saving is face-to-face meetings and attendance at estimated at 10 million.
As well as investor conferences.
reducing the cost of financing, we further strengthened the balance sheet by Dividend reducing financial leverage to 1.7 x The Board targets a dividend policy net debt to Adjusted EBITDA.
of approximately 30% of Adjusted Net Income.
Accordingly, the Board is Governance recommending a final dividend of 5.94 The Board is committed to strong euro cents per share, bringing the governance which is the foundation for proposed full-year dividend to 8.96 euro the long term success of the Group.
Subject to shareholder Board has worked effectively during the approval at the Annual General Meeting year with a committed, diverse and skilled on 16 May 2019, the final dividend will group of Directors who are engaged in be paid on 31 May 2019 to shareholders the Groups business activities.
on the register on 26 April 2019, the dividend record date.
In August 2018, we appointed Elaine Sarsynski to the Board, and she Our people subsequently joined the Boards The performance of the Group, and our Remuneration Committee.
In March 2019, continued success, is as a result of the we also appointed Andrea Dunstan to the hard work of all our talented employees Board.
I am delighted to welcome Elaine worldwide.
I wish to thank all our and Andrea to the Board.
employees for their excellent work over this period.
As previously announced, Neil Carson, our Senior Independent Director and Deputy Outlook Chairman, will be stepping down from the While still relatively early in 2019, we Board following the Groups AGM in May believe the Group is positioned to perform 2019 due to other commitments.
We thank well and continue strong cash generation Neil for his service and contribution to the in the current global light vehicle production Group and wish him well for the future.
The Group has a strong track record of delivering growth, strong profitability and cash flow, and we aim to In addition, as previously announced, continue achieving consistent results as Timothy Knutson, our Chief Financial a public company.
With the significant Officer and an Executive Director, progress made in 2018 with our EV and informed the Group that he wishes to HEV strategy and strong financial pursue other interests outside of the performance we believe the Group is well Group.
He will remain in his current positioned for success in 2019 and beyond.
position while the Group completes an orderly transition to a suitable replacement.
The transition process is expected to be Manfred Wennemer completed by the end of 2019.
Chairman Dialogue with shareholders In September 2018, our principal shareholder, BC Omega Holdco Ltd. managed by Bain Capital, conducted an orderly sale of just over 10% of TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09
