6 Strategic report Chairmans statement Rupert Robson an impairment of goodwill of 65m.
Our The 2018 results and Chairman underlying performance reflected improving levels of activity in our Rates business, and the appointment of strong performances in our Equities business the new leadership and in our Data & Analytics division, offset Dear shareholder, by a weaker performance in Energy & team provide a strong Commodities and Credit.
I am pleased that the Group was able to foundation for the demonstrate its resilience during 2018, The underlying operating profit margin in delivering solid results in a challenging year.
next stage of the 2018 of 15.7% was 0.7 percentage points Following the transformational acquisition higher than in 2017.
The statutory operating of the ICAP global broking business in late Groups development.
profit margin in 2018 of 5.3% was 0.5 2016, the enlarged Group encountered a percentage points lower than in 2017.
Basic number of difficulties with its subsequent earnings per share were 5.7p 2017: 15.8p integration plans in 2018 which resulted in and underlying earnings per share for 2018 the need for the trading update and the of 34.2p were 0.9p higher than in 2017. change of management announced in the middle of the year.
Since then the business The Board declared an interim dividend has been reset, the appointments of a new of 5.6p per share paid on 9 November 2018 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial and is recommending a final dividend of Officer have settled, and the business has 11.25p per share to be paid on 21 May 2019 delivered results in line with the expectations with a record date of 5 April 2019. set at that time.
Governance I am more than aware that shareholders The Company and its shareholders confronted suffered during this period.
However, the a number of challenges concerning its Board and the executive team have not direction and performance in 2018.
These hesitated in addressing the underlying difficulties included unlocking the benefits of issues, and engaging quickly with the the combination of Tullett Prebon and ICAP task of resetting the business.
as well as managing rising costs in the areas of adherence to regulation, risk management, These results demonstrate that the Group has compliance and technology.
After carefully been stabilised as a result of the decisions reviewing the performance of the Group in taken and, as forecast, the Company has the second quarter of the year and thorough maintained its dividend.
We are now looking consideration of the underlying issues, the forward to the completion of the integration Company issued a trading update in early in 2019, and the further development of July and announced the Boards decision initiatives which will support our platform for to appoint a new Chief Executive Officer.
This will support TP ICAPs position The trading update clarified in particular as a dynamic and innovative business at the the relationship between the integration heart of the wholesale financial, energy and synergies and the continuing need for commodities markets.
Through its leading investment in our core regulatory, risk and market position, it plays an essential role in compliance functions and in technology to making markets work effectively.
support our business into 2019 and beyond.
The update also announced important Trading and dividend investment initiatives, the benefits of which Reported revenue of 1,763m in 2018 was are explained further in this Annual Report.
in line with 2017 3% higher at constant exchange rates with underlying operating profit increasing by 5% to 276m compared to 2017.
On a statutory basis, operating profit decreased by 9% to 93m reflecting TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 7 The acquisition of the ICAP global broking As described in last years Annual Report, During 2018 the Board considered ways to business has given the Group an extremely we now have a structured programme of supplement the various existing mechanisms strong platform for the future.
Our sector has Board refreshment on an annual basis.
in place to ensure meaningful engagement consolidated and will continue to do so.
Three new Non-executive Directors have with our workforce.
We have now designated TP ICAP is the largest company in its sector.
joined us in the last 18 months.
We welcomed three Non-executive Directors, one based in The Board felt, however, that it should act Edmund Ng, based in Hong Kong, to the each of our three regions, as workforce decisively in order to deliver the detail of Board in November 2017.
This was followed engagement leads.
You are able to read the integration of the ICAP business and by Michael Heaney joining the Board in more about this and other key stakeholder secure the Groups medium-term strategy.
Both Edmund and Michael engagement in the Governance Report on A rigorous process was followed in order have extensive hands-on markets experience.
pages 66 and 67. to review carefully the Groups position In July 2018, Lorraine Trainer was appointed Outlook and to select a new Chief Executive Officer.
as a Non-executive Director and Chair elect The 2018 results and the appointment of The interests of shareholders and other of the Remuneration Committee.
She brings the new leadership team provide a strong stakeholders were at all times at the considerable experience in human resources foundation for the next stage of the Groups forefront of the Boards deliberations, and has been appointed a member of the development.
This is focused in the coming as was the observance of appropriate Remuneration, Audit and Nominations months on completing the realisation of the governance principles.
benefits to be derived from the combination We were pleased to be in a position to move Earlier in the year, I announced that I would of Tullett Prebon and ICAP.
The new team, quickly with the appointment of Nicolas be retiring as Chairman of the Company supported by the Board under the leadership Breteau as Chief Executive Officer and main at the year end.
We were delighted to of Richard, will then turn its full attention to Board Director.
We were also pleased to announce in December 2018 that Richard the delivery of the medium and long-term confirm Robin Stewarts appointment as Berliand will be my successor.
He joined the strategy for optimisation of our business Chief Financial Officer a role he had fulfilled Board initially as Chairman designate on model and to unlock the full potential of on an interim basis since the end of 2017 19 March 2019.
In order to facilitate the the Groups position in its various markets, and member of the Board.
Philip Price joined handover, I agreed to defer my retirement its underlying technology and its people.
the Board as an additional Executive Director some months, and Richard will now assume I am confident that the business case for the in September 2018.
Between them, the the Chairmanship at the conclusion of the Group remains compelling and the leadership Executive Directors have a detailed Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2019 is now in place to deliver on our market knowledge of the Group and a wide network when I retire.
He and I are working together leading potential in the years to come.
within, and outside, the organisation and closely and will continue to do so to ensure provide the Board with the depth and a thorough induction and handover.
I would like to record my sincere thanks breadth of information it requires to carry for the support of both current and past Engagement with stakeholders out its role effectively.
All three Executive colleagues on the Board throughout my The Board will continue to review its Directors have played a vital role in the time with the Group, and for the continuing programme of wider engagement with transition process and stabilisation of the efforts of all our partners and employees the Groups key stakeholders.
Group last summer and since.
Between who have contributed to the Groups successes.
them, they have a deep understanding The Executive Directors maintain an of the Groups business and of the challenges extensive and regular programme of and opportunities that it has in front of it.
engagement with shareholders both around Rupert Robson interim and full year reporting and on an ad Further Board changes Chairman hoc basis.
I know that Richard Berliand is We saw a number of other changes to the 19 March 2019 also intending to engage meaningfully with Board during the year.
I would like to thank shareholders on subjects such as strategic Carol Sergeant, who recently retired as development, succession planning and Non-executive Director, and Stephen Pull Board composition.
who has decided not to seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Both of them have made significant and important contributions during their years of service.
