qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Investors demand for the underlying assets has remained strong with the exception of retail property which faces structural challenges which are unlikely to abate soon.
This steady investment demand has even been the case with central London ofces where overseas capital in particular, has been prepared to look beyond Brexit uncertainty.
Although our physical portfolio is a small part of the Trust, it has had a very good year with returns matching the strength of the equity portfolio.
Our managers have taken advantage of strong demand for industrial and well located suburban ofces by selling in Plymouth and Wimbledon.
Interestingly, one of these assets had less than four years Hugh Seaborn on the lease and the other was a development Chairman opportunity, both providing useful indicators of the markets optimism for future tenant demand.
Introduction It has been a very good year for the Trust.
Performance NAV and Share Price performance has been strong in both absolute and relative terms and As mentioned earlier the NAV total return was a healthy we have enjoyed healthy revenue growth.
15.5%, well ahead of the benchmark at 10.2%.
The share The Net Asset Value NAV total return at 15.5% was well price total return was higher at 25.5% as the discount ahead of the benchmark at 10.2%, and results in a between the share price and the asset value narrowed five-year cumulative total return of 111.16%.
Coupled to materially from 10.7% to 3.2% over the year.
this revenue has increased by 16.2% for the year.
More detail and commentary on performance is set out in Although the first half of the year saw the sector benefit the Managers Report.
from healthier economic growth and improved political stability the overriding theme is that particular sub-markets have provided growth across all geographical regions and Revenue Results and Dividend these include logistics, industrial and rented residential.
As Earnings per share for the full year increased by 16.2% to a result, the Trust has benefited from increased exposure 13.22p per share.
Most of the increase occurred in the not just in continental Europe, but in the UK as well, as first half of the year.
We reported a 22.8% increase in some of the sectors with potential such as self-storage and revenue at the interim stage while second half revenue student accommodation, are only available in the UK.
The attraction of the property sector is its ability to deliver As set out in the Interim Report, first half earnings were reliable and predictable earnings.
Where businesses are enhanced by a significant withholding tax reclaim and growing their earnings faster than ination without increasing risk, they are attracting strong share price weaker Sterling when compared to the same period in the performance.
This coupled to an expectation of higher previous year.
The second half did not have the benefit of ination as Europe inches towards normalising monetary this one-off item and the Sterling Euro rate was stable conditions, has led our manager to increase exposure to compared to the previous period.
companies offering more index linked income and longer underlying leases, most particularly in the UK where the The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 7.55p expectation is of slower rental growth.
per share resulting in a total dividend for the year of 12.20p, 16.2% ahead of the 2017 full year dividend of 10.50p per share, matching the growth in earnings.
Share price discount to capital only NAV.
TR Property Investment Trust 4 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 5 Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years rebased 300 250 200 150 100 50 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 Mar-17 Mar-18 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return TR Property Net Asset Value Total Return as described above.
We continue to use FX forward Revenue Outlook contracts to maintain the currency exposure of our Earnings in the first few months of the current financial balance sheet broadly in line with that of the benchmark.
The most significant factor in the The result is significant exposure to the Euro and in strong earnings growth seen over the last two years has absolute terms, this has had an impact, although the been the impact of weakening Sterling.
With a more stable change in rates between the 2018 and 2017 year-end currency any increase in earnings when measured in balance sheet dates has been quite modest.
Sterling will be from growth in the underlying dividends Shareholders can see the currency exposure in Note 11 to and we therefore expect to return to longer term normal the Financial Statements.
Once again, I would caution that having benefited from weakening currency, there will be a negative impact on revenue when this reverses and Discount and Share Repurchases Sterling strengthens.
The discount narrowed during the year from 10.7% to 3.2% at the year-end, well ahead of the 10-year average Debt of 8.6%.
Gearing has increased from 13.6% reported at the end of No shares were repurchased during the year.
September 2017 to 14.6% at the year end.
Both our revolving credit facilities were renewed during the year, New Regulation although in the case of the more recent renewal with RBS, the facility was reduced from 40m to 35m.
We I mentioned in my Interim Statement that a number of continue to actively use CFDs as a source of competitively new regulations were due to come into effect in 2018 priced gearing which does not carry non-utilisation costs which would have implications for the Trust.
MiFID II which came into effect at the beginning of January has been a huge challenge for the industry Currencies introducing onerous trade reporting obligations on the Currency movements have been more significant to the Manager and a change to the way in which research from revenue account than the capital account over the period brokers is paid for.
Commissions on transactions have share price discount to capital only NAV.
TR Property Investment Trust 5 TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 11 06 2018 11:51 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued reduced signicantly, resulting in lower charges to the Awards capital account when the Trust buys and sells shares, as The Trust was Highly Commended in Best Property Trust the cost of research, previously covered as part of the in the Money Observer Trust Awards 2018. higher transaction commission, is now agreed in advance through Research Agreements and charged separately to the Manager.
As noted in the Management Engagement Committee report on page46the Board has negotiated revised terms for the Investment Management Agreement to reect these changes and to ensure that the research and investment capability available to the manager remains appropriately remunerated and protected.
I would also like to draw your attention to one other Board Changes regulatory requirement.
It has been my pleasure to welcome Tim Gillbanks who PRIIPs Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment joined the Board in January.
Products regulation took effect at the beginning of the year.
One of the responsibilities of our Manager under this Outlook regulation is to publish a Key Information Document KID In November I noted that we remained positive about the which is available on our website.
In our Interim Report merits of property as an income generating asset class I highlighted that the way the information is required to be and that we were focused on high quality businesses with calculated and presented is prescribed by the regulations strong recurring cashows.
Six months on, that statement and is based purely on recent historical data.
The remains valid but subject to heightened vigilance.
The regulations require that there is no judgement applied and level of divergence between those businesses with growth the calculations take no account of forecasts or market prospects and those without continues to widen and the conditions.
As a consequence the Board is concerned that advantage of being able to consistently reduce the cost of the investment performance scenarios which are based debt is coming to an end.
on such short-term recent performance, may indicate over optimistic future returns.
Real estate continues to provide an income advantage particularly when compared to prevailing bond yields.
Our The AIC Association of Investment Companies has manager is focusing on businesses in areas and sectors recently announced that as a result of research it had which provide the prospect of rental growth, combined conducted, the Association believes that too many KIDs with sustainable debt levels.
Therefore, with the caveats overstate likely future performance and understate referred to above, we remain confident of the attributes of investment risk and has called on the FCA to take steps to the asset class.
We welcome this intervention by the AIC and hope that the FCA responds.
In the meantime I feel it appropriate to remind shareholders that past performance should not be taken as a guide to the future.
Hugh Seaborn Chairman 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 6 STRATEGIC REPORT
