Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement I am pleased to introduce the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, a year in which the Group announced a new strategic direction, focusing on its advantaged trade businesses and simplifying the organisation.
The Group is taking positive action to respond to the ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty and deliver financial performance in the short-term, whilst positioning its businesses to take advantage when market conditions improve, and to maximise value creation in the future.
Stuart Chambers Chairman 25 February 2019 2018 performance Strategy Starting with safety, we were encouraged by another year of The Group has grown considerably in recent years, both organically improvement with our accident frequency rate declining again and through acquisitions, expanding our reach into new markets for the fifth year running.
Our Stay Safe Committee chaired by but leading to increasing levels of complexity.
This has resulted Pete Redfern signed off our new Health and Safety strategy, with in a higher cost base and has challenged the effectiveness of the further details on pages 47 and 48 of this report.
Groups management focus and capital allocation.
One key consideration is that 25% of our lost time incidents In response to this, and following a comprehensive strategic occurred out of branch last year, up from 17%.
Furthermore, the review, the Board concluded that the purpose of the Travis importance of focus in this area was highlighted in August 2018 Perkins Group should be defined more tightly, to provide when a cyclist, Dr Peter Fisher, tragically lost his life in an accident best-in-class service to trade customers.
involving one of the Groups commercial vehicles at slow speed At a Capital Markets day in December we outlined our plans for in London.
This all serves to remind us that safety must be at the this future direction under two key themes: to focus on trade forefront of our minds in everything we do, and our aim remains to customers through advantaged businesses and simplify the cause zero harm to our employees, and to everyone with whom we Group.
The main initiatives underway to drive this strategy are: interact as we go about our work.
To reinvigorate the Travis Perkins merchant business, by placing Turning now to financials, the Group produced a solid overall trade customers at the heart of our strategy and thinking performance in 2018 against a market backdrop of considerable uncertainty.
Sales grew by 4.8% to 6,741m, and by 4.9% on a To explore options to divest the Plumbing and Heating division like-for-like basis.
To improve the performance of Wickes to create optionality Group adjusted operating profit, excluding property profits, for the future declined by 1.3% in the year, although with a distinct half on half To reduce above-branch costs throughout the Group with the split.
An 11.5% decline in the first half of the year was followed aim of speeding up decision making and simplifying the Group by growth of 10.7% in the second half, with earnings progression driven by the improved trading and cost reduction.
Adjusted To continue to invest in the growth of Toolstation earnings per share increased by 3.7% to 114.5p.
To continue to upgrade our IT systems and improve our digital capability In parallel with these significant workstreams we remain committed to delivering on our day to day performance.
6 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Dividend Board of Directors The Board takes a balanced view between the ongoing I am leading a review of Board composition at the Nomination uncertainty in the UKs political and economic climate and Committee, which was started in 2018, in order to plan the the continued strong cash generation of the Group.
Whilst the evolution of the Board and to ensure that we have the right Groups adjusted operating profit declined modestly in 2018, balance of skills, experience and diversity going forwards.
the earnings per share increased by 3.7%, and the Board recommends a final dividend of 31.5p, payable on 17 May 2019 to Outlook shareholders on the register on 5 April 2019.
This will give a fullyear dividend of 47p 2017: 46p per share.
This modest increase The fundamental drivers of the Groups end markets remain in dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the ongoing positive robust, the level of new house building in the UK is not cash generation of the Group and its robust balance sheet.
keeping pace with demand, and there remains a significant underinvestment in the existing stock of 27 million homes.
At the same time, customer habits are changing, with consumers Employees increasingly likely to engage a tradesperson to carry out repair, At Travis Perkins our people are, of course, our greatest resource.
maintenance or improvement work on their home.
We have nearly 30,000 employees across the Group, and we In the near-term, the Group is planning for the current levels take our responsibility to all of our colleagues very seriously.
of market uncertainty to continue.
It is therefore vital that the We were recently recognised as a Top Employer by the Great Group concentrates its efforts on the self-help actions laid out Place to Work Institute for the 10th year running, which is a huge in the strategic update in December 2018.
These actions, to credit to all of our colleagues hard work, particularly in the HR simplify the Group and streamline decision making, will underpin function and across the branch network.
As a Group we continue performance in the short-term, whilst focusing on advantaged to push for continuous improvement in colleague support, with trade businesses will enable the Group to take advantage as specific programmes dedicated to colleague health, safety, market conditions improve and maximise shareholder value in career development, diversity, flexible benefits and financial the medium and long-term.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to thank all our colleagues for their commitment, energy and hard work during the course of 2018, and look forward to further success in 2019 and beyond.
Stuart Chambers Chairman 25 February 2019 Main image: Segou Grant Wickes, Cricklewood Bottom image: Shiap Bajgora & John Deighton Wickes, Cricklewood 7
