Strategic Report Chairmans Statement The value of income amidst economic uncertainty the Group owned 54 income-producing assets and 114 acres of 2018 was another successful year for the Group and completed five strategic land at Littlebrook, Dartford.
At the year end, the portfolio years since our IPO.
Amidst political and economic uncertainty on was independently valued at 3.42 billion including forward funding the world stage, Brexit loomed ever larger and the UK Stock Market development commitments, reflecting a like-for-like annual valuation ended the year on a downward trajectory.
To date, our subsector uplift of 4.7%.
has been largely insulated from the impact of these economic and political uncertainties.
Our portfolio provides a high-quality The forward funded pre-let developments we acquired in 2018 income stream, supporting our aim of delivering secure and growing mean that the Group has now forward funded 16 developments, dividends to Shareholders.
Over the last five years, the Group has of which 10 have completed successfully to date, all delivering carefully and deliberately constructed a portfolio of outstanding substantial valuation uplifts over their acquisition prices.
This level assets, let to equally impressive Customers.
This allowed us to of activity makes us the leading development funder in the sector declare dividends totalling 6.70 pence per share in respect of 2018, and our track record is a significant advantage when developers and as we once again met our annual dividend target.
The total dividend their occupiers are looking for a credible partner.
for the year was fully covered by the Groups Adjusted earnings of 6.88 pence per share.
The total return for 2018 was 12.1%, We are making good progress at Littlebrook, where demolition exceeding our target of at least 9% per annum.
of phases 1 and 2 has completed on time and within budget.
In November, we secured a consolidated planning permission for Strengthening the portfolio a 450,000 sq ft logistics facility on phase 1 of the site.
Robust investment demand for Big Box assets makes acquiring at attractive prices more challenging in the current environment.
Management focus Nevertheless, during the year, all of our acquisitions were completed The Manager continued to add value through its asset off market and the prices were attractive compared to valuation.
management programme, including securing rent reviews, lease Our first mover advantage has given us an unparalleled track re-gears and amendments, re-letting, a new letting as well as physical record that makes us a first port of call for vendors looking to sell.
Customer relationships are at the heart The Managers network of industry contacts, market intelligence of the business and the team has worked closely with Customers and specialist focus on logistics assets are also key, allowing us to throughout the year, including helping a number to plan for the identify and exploit market imperfections.
We also have a strong potential impact of Brexit through additional space or automation.
balance sheet and a well-developed debt financing platform, giving us flexibility of funding.
Finally, patience and capital discipline Positioning the Group for future returns ensure we never compromise on the quality of what we buy.
With increased demand for existing logistics investments we believe that better value can be captured through the development of This approach allowed us to acquire eight assets in the year, of new assets.
One of the years key events was gaining Shareholder which seven were forward funded pre-let developments and one approval for an amendment to our Investment Policy.
This allows was a standing asset, for a total price of 641.5 million, excluding us to increase the maximum exposure to strategic land, provides purchasing costs.
These acquisitions added new Customers to for modest speculative development and enables us to develop or the portfolio and further deepened our relationships with existing acquire ancillary assets, including smaller distribution warehouses Customers such as Amazon and Howdens.
At 31 December 2018, or last mile facilities see page 20 for more details.
6 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For Our Investment Policy, see page 20 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION A substantial part of the development profit can be captured by Two further changes to the Board took place after the year end.
sourcing opportunities at an early stage.
Our focus will remain Mark Shaw, who is Chairman and Partner of the Manager, primarily on the pre-let development of large-scale assets which retired from the Board on 1 February 2019.
We thank him for his tend to attract financially strong tenants on long leases, helping to significant and valuable contribution to the Companys creation maintain the modernity, income quality and WAULT of our portfolio.
and development over the last five years, and for his expertise and guidance.
Securing new financing Implementing our growth plans requires us to raise an appropriate Alastair Hughes joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on balance of equity and debt capital.
In April 2018, we raised further 1 February 2019.
As a result of these changes, all members of the equity funding through a heavily oversubscribed placing, which raised Board are now independent, including me as Chairman.
the maximum gross proceeds of 155.6 million.
This equity was principally used to acquire forward funded pre-let developments.
Acquisition of db symmetry Following our year end, the Company announced that it had Our debt financing reflects our growing maturity and scale.
During completed the acquisition of an 87% economic interest in the year, we built on our flexible, largely unsecured debt platform via db symmetry, which owns one of the UKs largest strategic land the debut issue of unsecured loan notes in the private placement portfolios for logistics property.
This is a transaction that the market, totalling 400 million.
This further diversified our borrowings Manager had been working on for an extensive period of time.
and has other attractive features, such as split maturities and a It is a significant milestone for the Company and a natural extension delayed draw down see page 48 for more details.
following the amendment to our Investment Policy in 2018.
We have maintained a conservative LTV at 27.3%, while Moodys This acquisition includes both consented and strategic land, offering reaffirmed its Baa1 credit rating during the year.
the Company phased access to deliver a potential 38.2 million sq ft of logistics assets across key logistics locations in the UK.
Strong financial results and growing dividends Our secure income and robust cost control mean that we continued Attractive outlook to deliver a strong and predictable financial performance in 2018.
The quality of the Groups portfolio and Customer base mean that we are confident of continuing to deliver secure dividends to Operating profit before changes in the fair value of investment Shareholders, resulting in attractive returns in a low interest rate properties increased by 21.3% to 113.76 million 2017: environment.
While the continued delays and lack of clarity over 93.78 million.
This contributed to Adjusted earnings per share of Brexit presents a substantial uncertainty for the UK economy, our 6.88 pence 2017: 6.37 pence, which fully covered our dividends market has remained robust.
Since the referendum in June 2016, in respect of the year.
The EPRA NAV per share rose by 10.59 pence occupiers have continued to search for space, rents have risen and or 7.4%, to 152.83 pence.
Brexit is also encouraging manufacturers and retailers to hold additional stock domestically, increasing The Company has declared four interim dividends of 1.675 pence occupational requirements for UK warehouse space while supply per share each in respect of the year.
Further details of these constraints continue.
This reinforces the favourable dynamics for dividends can be found in the Managers Report on pages 22-49. landlords.
Nonetheless, Brexit does present significant risk for The dividend for the three months to 31 December 2018 will be the UK economy which could impinge upon the current positive paid on 28 March 2019, to Shareholders on the register at attributes of our market.
We see good opportunities to continue to add assets to the We are targeting a progressive total dividend, paid quarterly, portfolio at prices that create value at the point of purchase.
Following the db symmetry acquisition, we now have the ability to bring through our own developments which are expected to Enhancing the Board contribute materially to earnings growth and our progressive We were pleased to welcome Richard Laing to the Board as a dividend policy over the medium term.
Richard has joined both the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees and Sir Richard Jewson KCVO, JP Chairman has taken over from Jim Prower as chairman of the Audit & Risk 6 March 2019 Committee.
Jim remains a member of the Audit & Risk Committee and I thank him on behalf of the Board for his significant contribution in his time as committee chairman.
For The Groups Financial Strategy in Action Debt capital, see page 48 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 7 For The Managers Report, see page 22-49 Strategic Report Our Achievements in 2018 2018 was another year of significant activity for the Group, as we continued to enhance the portfolio through acquisitions and asset management.
1 2 Acquisitions 15 January Completed contracts on 6 February Exchanged contracts 12 October Exchanged contracts the 103.70 million forward funded on a forward funded development for the forward funded development development of two distribution of a logistics facility, pre-let to Eddie of a logistics facility at Corby for facilities at Warth Park, Raunds, Stobart Limited, at Midlands Logistics BSH Home Appliances Ltd, for a total Northamptonshire, pre-let to Howden Park, Corby, Northamptonshire, for commitment of 89.33 million.
24 December Completed contracts 18 January Acquired the AO World plc 29 June Exchanged contracts for for the forward funded development National Distribution Centre at the forward funded development of a logistics facility near Durham Weston Road, Crewe, Cheshire for of a logistics facility for Amazon UK pre-let to Amazon UK Services Ltd, 1 36.10 million.
Services Ltd at Link 66, Darlington.
The total commitment was 120.26 million.
For more information on financing see Managers Report on pages 22-49.
28 September Exchanged contracts for the forward funded development of a logistics facility for Amazon UK Services Ltd at Haydock, St Helens, Merseyside, for a total commitment of 68.71 million.
1 Commitment based on target build size.
Asset Management 15 March Upon expiry of the Kelloggs lease at Trafford Park, Manchester, we secured a new 10-year lease term with Kelloggs which expires in April 2028.
26 November Obtained planning 3 permission for a 450,000 sq ft logistics facility on the Groups development land at Littlebrook, Dartford.
29 November Completed a new 15- year lease to Amazon UK Services Ltd For more information at the Groups Chesterfield property, on Asset Management following successful negotiation of a see Managers Report on pages 22-49. lease surrender with Tesco.
8 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board 7 March Declared an interim dividend 11 October Declared an interim of 1.60 pence per share, in respect of dividend of 1.675 pence per share, the three months to 31 December 2017. in respect of the three months to 30 September 2018.
16 May Appointed Richard Laing as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 23 November Shareholder approval of the Audit & Risk Committee.
for an amendment to the Companys Investment Policy that increases 17 May Declared an interim dividend our maximum potential exposure to of 1.675 pence per share, in respect strategic land.
of the three months to March 2018.
1 February 2019 Appointed Alastair 12 July Declared an interim dividend Hughes as a Non-Executive Director.
of 1.675 pence per share, in respect For more information on Mark Shaw retired from the Board.
of the three months to 30 June 2018. dividends see Managers Report on pages 22-49 6 March 2019 Declared an interim dividend of 1.675 pence per share, For more information on in respect of the three months to Directors see The Board of Directors on pages 82-83 31 December 2018. Financing 18 April Raised gross proceeds of 156 million, through a placing of 109,364,308 new Ordinary Shares at 142.25 pence per share.
1 October Agreed a new, short-term unsecured banking facility of 250 million.
5 December Signed an agreement with new institutional investors for a private placement of 400 million of unsecured fixed-rate loan notes.
19 December Extended the term of the For more information on financing see Managers Groups 350 million revolving credit Report on pages 22-49. facility by one year to December 2023.
4 5 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 9
