CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Alan has led Unilever's largest Division, Beauty & Personal Care, 2018 PERFORMANCE for the last four years and he has been a member of the Group's I am pleased to report that 2018 was another year of consistent top Leadership Executive since 2011.
His previous roles include running and bottom line performance for Unilever.
Solid revenue growth was Unilevers business in North Asia.
Alan has deep understanding and combined with good profitability and cash flow delivery.
This despite wide experience of Unilevers business and markets.
He is a strong, a challenging year for the global economy, with subdued growth and dynamic and values-driven leader with an impressive track record of high levels of volatility undermining consumer confidence in many delivering consistent high-quality performance across both developed parts of the world.
The Boards warmly welcome Alan to the role and look forward to working closely with him in the years ahead.
Unilever is also operating in a sector that is experiencing widespread change and disruption.
Although challenging, these changes offer Unilever has been transformed under the leadership of Paul Polman.
significant opportunities to companies able to move with speed He has overseen ten years of consistent top and bottom line growth and agility and who can tailor their offering to changing consumer and very competitive returns to shareholders.
He leaves with the preferences.
To that end, the Boards are very confident that Unilever's companys geographic footprint and brand portfolio stronger and strategy and the measures it has taken to strengthen its organisation, well positioned for future growth.
sharpen its portfolio and digitise its operations make it well placed Pauls pioneering commitment to sustainable and equitable growth have to capture new and emerging growth opportunities.
marked him and the company out as leaders in the field.
Thanks to The Boards also believe that the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan his visionary leadership and tireless efforts, Unilever is not only one of continues to set Unilever apart as a business highly attuned to the the most admired and respected companies in the world today, but also growing desire among consumers for companies and brands that one of the most desired employers.
serve a wider societal and environmental need.
Paul retired as CEO and as a Board member on 31 December 2018.
In 2018 we also completed successfully the complex disposal of the He will support the transition process in the first half of 2019 and spreads business.
Our Share Buy-back programme delivered on will leave the Group in early July.
We thank him for his remarkable its intention to buy back shares with an aggregate market value of contribution to the company and wish him every success in the future.
6 billion, in line with Unilever's objective to return the after-tax proceeds of the spreads disposal to shareholders.
REMUNERATION During 2018 we also continued to consult with shareholders on our SIMPLIFICATION Remuneration Policy, particularly for the Executive Directors.
At the Following a thorough review and widespread consultation, the Boards 2017 AGMs you provided your strong support to the implementation put forward proposals in 2018 to simplify Unilevers dual-headed of a reward framework that encourages and enhances a strong structure under a new single holding company.
performance culture by enabling Unilever managers to have an even stronger personal commitment to Unilever share ownership.
In developing the proposal including a recommendation to incorporate in the Netherlands while maintaining listings in the At the 2018 AGMs, we asked shareholders to approve a new Netherlands, the UK and the US the Boards were motivated by the Remuneration Policy that would align the pay of our Executive opportunity to unlock value by simplifying Unilever and giving it added Directors fully with the Reward Framework we introduced following flexibility to compete effectively over the longer-term.
Whilst shareholders approved the new Remuneration Policy, we recognised that a significant minority of NV and PLC We recognised however that the proposal did not receive support shareholders voted against the proposal.
On pages 50 and 51 of from a significant group of shareholders and therefore considered the 2018 Directors' Remuneration Report, we describe in detail the it appropriate to withdraw.
The Boards still believe that simplifying principal concerns and how we responded to them and other changes Unilevers dual-headed structure would, over time, provide opportunities to the implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
to further accelerate value creation and would serve Unilevers best long-term interests.
EVALUATION Since withdrawing the proposal, I have met with a significant number Following the external Board evaluation in 2017, we used a simplified of PLC and NV shareholders to discuss further ideas and possible next internal evaluation this year.
While we concluded that the Boards steps.
It is clear from all these meetings that there is widespread support continued to operate in an effective manner overall, the Boards decided for the principles and strategic rationale behind Simplification.
In these that it will maintain a particular focus on portfolio and channel strategies meetings, I also took the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment and digitisation.
Each Board Committee also performed its own to further strengthen our corporate governance.
Accordingly, in self-evaluation, agreeing areas where it could enhance its effectiveness February 2019, we followed through on our commitment to cancel the further.
These are described within each Committee Report.
NV Preference Shares, in itself a major step towards simplifying the companys share capital.
LOOKING AHEAD Even though trading conditions are likely to remain challenging in BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION 2019, the Boards remain confident both in the outlook and in the The 2018 AGMs marked the retirement of Ann Fudge as a Non-Executive strategy for the Group, reflected by an 8% increase in the dividend Director and Vice-Chairman of the Boards.
On behalf of the Boards, for the 2018 financial year.
I would like to thank Ann for her outstanding and valued contribution to Unilever.
Over the year, Board members have visited Unilever operations in several parts of the world, including China and the United States.
We I was also delighted that you elected Andrea Jung as a Non-Executive have seen first-hand the depth of talent that exists within the company, Director at the same AGMs.
Andrea brings highly relevant experience as well as the commitment of Unilever people to go on improving the and expertise to Unilever and is a very welcome addition to the Boards.
lives of consumers and the societies in which the company operates.
On behalf of the Boards, I want to thank all of the 155,000 employees CEO SUCCESSION of Unilever for their remarkable efforts.
A key focus for the Boards last year was to manage the CEO Equally we have been pleased to engage with many of the companys succession, with Paul Polman stepping down as CEO after 10 years other stakeholders, without whom Unilever could not be successful.
That includes our shareholders, who I also want to thank for their After a rigorous and wide-ranging selection process, the Boards were continued support of the company.
unanimous in its decision to appoint Alan Jope to the role.
Alan became CEO on 1 January 2019 and is being proposed as an Executive Director at the 2019 AGMs.
MARIJN DEKKERS CHAIRMAN 2 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
