Strategic report The business has continued to make excellent progress CHAIRMANS in 2018, delivering across all of our key metrics.
LETTER The business has continued to make excellent The recent success of the business is founded Board priorities progress in 2018, delivering across all of our on a consistent strategy and we will continue Deepening our University key metrics.
Our sector-leading brand and to focus on delivering its main objectives: partnerships our positive reputation with customers and providing great services that our students Continually improving our Universities, based around valued customer and University partners value: delivering quality customer service service, underpins this performance.
The buildings designed around student needs: combination of our brand, relationships with and generating high-quality recurring earnings High-quality portfolio aligned high-quality Universities and property portfolio and maintaining a strong capital structure.
to the strongest Universities is difficult to replicate and is driving sustainable Investing in recruiting, retaining growth in our earnings.
The outlook for our market remains positive, and developing quality people reflecting the strength of the world-renowned UK Financial performance has again been strong, Higher Education sector, increasing participation Focusing on long-term, with a total accounting return of 13% and rates, the internationalisation of Higher Education sustainable earnings growth.
growth in EPRA earnings, up 25% to 88.4 million.
and the shortage of housing in the UK.
Whilst the R ead more about Building on Profit before tax was 245.8 million, which Higher Education Funding Review, together with our core principles on page 20 includes property revaluations and the impact the ongoing Brexit negotiations and political of disposals of 153.6 million 2017: 229.4 million landscape in the UK, present a backdrop of and 169.2 million respectively.
As a result of this some uncertainty: the Higher Education sector performance, we are proposing a final dividend fundamentals, together with our high-quality of 19.5p to deliver a total dividend of 29.0p for portfolio, University relationships and marketthe full year, an increase of 28% year-on-year.
leading operating platform, provide a resilient platform for continued growth.
Unite Students is a service brand and the strong performance we have delivered for our customers, Phil White University partners and shareholders is only Chairman possible because of the talent and hard work 27 February 2019 of our teams across the business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for another excellent year.
Richard Simpson stepped down in May as our Group Property Director to take up the role of Chief Executive Officer of Watkin Jones plc.
We have also taken the opportunity to appoint Richard Akers and Ilaria del Beato as additional Non-Executive Directors in September and December respectively.
06 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 DELIVERING FOR OUR STUDENTS We have a deep understanding of students through our rich research and insight programme, and 28 years of experience.
This has helped us build our student proposition and crystallise it into our 3 brand promises which when delivered, create Home for Success.
Getting settled in we know the transition to independent living is a huge leap for students, so we want to make that process as smooth as possible.
Feeling safe and secure you cant feel at home without feeling safe, so we know how important this is for our students and make safety and security our top priority.
Knowing someones there if you need them part of feeling safe and secure is our students knowing they can rely on us when they really need support.
53% of our students checked in online in 2018, using the new functionality of our MyUnite app.
This means we can help our students get settled in almost as soon as they arrive so they can focus on making the most of their University experience.
84% Our recently introduced digital platform for the booking, scheduling and monitoring of maintenance requests helped our Estates team deliver a first-time fix within 24 hours in 84% of cases, making sure we are there when our students need us, and they feel safe and secure.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 07
