Strategic report Chairmans review Strategy and differentiation Victrex is focused on growth markets and having an offering acrossPolymer & Parts will help us to capture the significant growth opportunities that lie ahead.
Our strategy involves differentiating against our competitors through being focused on existing and new applications in the PEEK & PAEK polymer space, through developing new grades and product forms, including composites, and through building new markets alongside our core polymer offering.
In summary, Victrex is operating as a solutions company, working across its markets and with customers to deliver solutions and performance benefits against incumbent materials, typically metal.
With over 900 employees, we focus solely on the high performance PEEK & PAEK polymer segment, where long-term megatrends such as lightweighting, CO reduction and more efficient manufacturing 2 support the use of our materials.
1 PEEK experts, Victrex is pioneering the market for the use of PEEK & PAEK polymers.
Our core polymer business continues to perform well in a competitive Larry Pentz market.
Whilst our current sales are still largely derived from core Chairman polymer materials, Victrexs differentiated offering to customers is built on much more than just having the capacity to manufacture polymers.
Our technical service, application development capability, regulatory support, Research & Development and innovation credentials are key strengths which have served us well, and will The right continue to do so.
Moving downstream into new and selected semi-finished and finished products parts shows Victrex can further differentiate strategy and build new markets.
We will operate as a genuine solutions provider for our customers, capturing ahigher value share from each application and delivering continued strong returns for ourshareholders.
Delivering our growth pipeline Our growth pipeline includes our core application developments With our Polymer & Parts strategy and our mega-programmes, with each mega-programme offering the potential for over 50m of annual revenue in its peak sales year.
continuing to show progress, we remain Driving full market adoption can take time for what represent focused on commercialising our new disruptive technologies in many cases, particularly against long-standing metal-based or existing polymer technologies.
semi-finished and finished products, anddriving growth in our core polymer 2018 saw further progress in the early commercialisation of several mega-programmes.
In Dental, we signed a major customer agreement business.
As an innovative and with Straumann, one of the worlds largest Dental companies, whilst differentiated business, we remain in Automotive, our Gears mega-programme saw the first PEEK Gears used to replace metal in a European car.
We also secured wellplaced to deliver the significant further offshore deployments for our Magma oil&gas flexible pipe growthopportunities that lie ahead.
application, as well as the potential from along-term opportunity inoffshore Brazil.
Investment to support the `burden of proof for our customers andnew product pipeline continues.
We are commissioning the US manufacturing facility for our TxV Aero Composites joint venture andalso signalled the potential requirement to invest in additional polymer production capacity within our five-year strategic planning timeframe, reflecting that core volume momentum remains positive.
Results 2018 further validated our Polymer & Parts offering and I am pleased to report another strong year for Victrex.
The majority ofour markets performed well, demonstrating the value of a balanced portfolio, with notably strong performances in Automotive, Electronics and Energy.
04 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Group revenue of 326.0m was 12% up on the prior year Governance and the Board 2017:290.2m, including the benefit from currency.
Group Our Board blends complementary skills and experience to shape our profitbefore tax of 127.5m 2017: 111.0m was up 15%, future performance.
Our current female representation on the Board agoodperformance which also reflects increased investment in the is 30%, consistent with the recommended minimum representation.
front-end commercial, technical and marketing functions, alongside Richard Armitage joined the Board in May 2018 as Group Finance incremental accrual for the Groups all-employee bonus scheme, Director, replacing Louisa Burdett.
We also saw David Thomas join which is linked to profit growth.
Earnings per share of 128.8p the Board in May as a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit 2017:116.4p was up 11%, which also reflects the first full-year Committee, replacing Andrew Dougal.
Following the retirement benefit of a lower tax rate as part of Victrex filing patents for our ofPatrick fide Smedt, Janet Ashdown joined the Board as Chair of unique chemistry and IP which qualify for the UK governments the Remuneration Committee, with Brendan Connolly also joining Patent Box legislation.
Patent Box encourages Research & the Board as a non-executive Director.
Detailed biographies of Development investment within the UK.
Board members are shown on pages 42 and 43 and I believe these appointments uphold our strong corporate governance as well as Cost efficiency to support investment for growth supporting us indelivery of our strategy over the coming years.
With an emerging proportion of our manufacturing being in thedownstream parts area, we will continue to ensure our core Corporategovernance polymer production operations are fit for purpose in a competitive Pages 41 to 78 market.
We will also focus on transitioning appropriate resources from primary manufacturing core polymer into secondary manufacturing Safety manufacturing of parts to support our downstream journey.
Victrex recorded no lost time accidents or employee reportable incidents, a measure of our safety practices.
We also secured the Investment to support our future growth remains a priority for Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold award Victrex.
With the for the 21st consecutive year.
Away from our manufacturing operations, potential for additional polymer production capacity in the coming we have an unwavering safety focus across our global teams, who years, weanticipate the potential for capital expenditure to slightly continue to drive the market opportunities for our polymers, whether increase onamedium-term view.
at commercial, marketing, technical or support services level.
Innovation and technical excellence remain key differentiators forVictrex, with R&D expenditure of 17.4m 2017: 14.5m Sustainability representing approximately 5% of Group revenue.
M&A and Victrex has continued to make progress against its 2023 Vision partnerships remain key options for Victrex in supporting our timed to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Victrexs formation, growth programmes.
Our strategy of Make versus Buy offers although we will continue to monitor the practicality of several usthe opportunity to develop assets or capability ourselves, targets.
This year Victrex was recognised in the FTSE Russell Green orbuyinthis capability as we have done with Kleiss Gears, our Revenues Index, a global measure of companies with products TxVAero Composites joint venture and the acquisition of Zyex.
which can help reduce carbon emissions.
Further detail can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 28 to 39.
Cash-generative business model Victrex retains a highly cash-generative business model, Sustainability report supportinginvestment for growth and appropriate returns to Pages 28 to 39 shareholders.
The Groups closing cash balance including cash heldon deposit reached 144.4m this year 2017: 120.1m, with People & stakeholders no debt.
This has been another good year for Victrex, which has also benefited our key stakeholders as shown on pages 6 and 7.
On behalf ofthe Dividends Board I would like to thank each and every one of Victrexs employees The Boards capital allocation policy focuses on growth investment for their continued contribution as we progress forward with our whether organic or through M&A first, whilst supporting a regular Polymer & Parts offering.
For our stakeholders, we have created over dividend and the potential of incremental returns for shareholders 100 new employee roles this year, we have provided genuine performance via a special dividend.
The Board has reflected on our dividend benefits for our customers, and we have delivered continued strong distribution policy during the year and proposes to retain the returns for our shareholders.
We are alsofocused on diversity through currentpolicy.
This will retain our flexibility to invest in downstream our Gender Pay and Global People Framework activities, details of investment and polymer capacity expansion.
Our intention will be which can be found on page 37 of the Sustainability report.
togrow theregular dividend in line with EPS, whilst also offering the opportunity of a special dividend where possible, subject to a minimum Outlook of 50p share.
We believe this policy offers good opportunities for For 2019, our expectation is for continued momentum in our core shareholder returns, whilst keeping the primary focus on investment.
polymer business and milestones in our mega-programmes.
We expect to make good progress on a constant currency basis: however, With continued strong cash generation this year, the Board is proposing adverse currency, no expected volumes in Consumer Electronics and a special dividend of 82.68p.
Our regular dividend seeks tomaintain recent market softness in Automotive may hold back our ability to cover at or around 2x.
With earnings per share up 11%, the Group is substantially improve on our overall 2018 performance, with these proposing to pay a final dividend of 46.14p per share 2017: 41.60p, headwinds falling mainly in the first half.
A better second half, taking total dividends for the year to 59.56p 2017: 53.80p, an compared to the prior year, is our current assessment and, with strong increase of 11%.
structural growth opportunities and a healthy new product pipeline, we continue to be well placed for the medium and long term.
Larry Pentz Chairman 4 December 2018 Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 05 Strategic report Our business model Polymer 3.
C REATE & DELIVER Selected product forms u semi-finished Downstream manufacturing u Pipes, film andcomposites u 1.
DRIVE CORE BUSINESS u PEEK and PAEK polymers u Core applications u No.
1 upstream manufacturing capacity of7,150 tonnes nameplate capacity u Cost efficiency u Quality 2.
DIFFERENTIATE THROUGH INNOVATION Core application u development pipeline Invent and develop u newgrades  u DELIVERING THE EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS Engaging with and creating value for 100 50% New roles created in 2018 Lower noise vibration from PEEK Gears our stakeholders Through driving our core business, We engage with our customers as a solutions Victrexs business model seeks to differentiating through innovation and provider, offering performance benefits, creating & delivering future value, we offer whether that be lightweighting, manufacturing create value for our diverse range sustainable career opportunities for our time saving or other factors.
This year we created through innovation and creating & delivering engagement, we are able to over100 new roles, we engaged through future value mean we are offering leading-edge understand what they expect quarterly staff briefings, employee forums products and solutions.
An example in 2018 fromus: and other communication channels, and is our PEEK Gears, which may reduce weight wesaw animprovement to our employee and noise vibration in cars, and speed up engagement score.
Sustainability report Performance review Pages 28 to 39 Pages 18 to 20 06 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report & Parts AEROSPACE AUTOMOTIVE FUTURE VALUE Selected parts u semi-finished and finished Downstream manufacturing u MEDICAL 1 Deliver mega-programmes u Polymer to parts u ENERGY ELECTRONICS 4.
UNDERPIN MANUFACTURING & ENGINEERING Safe and sustainable business u Future capacity solutions u Talent strategy u BURDEN OF PROOF 1 Pipeline programmes offering 50m annual revenue potential in peak sales year.
SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES INVESTORS Signatory of UK 3,461 11% Cumulative hours spent in the Earnings per share growth in 2018 prompt payment code community since 2015 By further differentiating our business through Through all elements of our business model, target 10,000 hours by 2023 Polymer & Parts, we seek to deliver further Victrex engages with suppliers, providing As part of our Sustainability strategy and 2023 growth and continued strong returns for them with growth opportunities through the targets, Victrex has clear targets including shareholders.
We seek to engage in two-way market pull for PEEK and PAEK materials.
We seek dialogue, enabling investors to make informed We are a signatory to the UK Prompt to engage with the communities where we decisions.
We have a full, transparent and Payment Code which ensures we engage operate, through partnerships or through active investor engagement programme, with and pay our suppliers in a fair manner.
supporting education programmes, particularly through Capital Markets Days, investor We also engage through partnerships, those linked to Science and Maths.
Our conferences, roadshows, results, trading including with academia, scientific and employees also spend a proportion of their updates, site visits and management meetings.
Sustainability report Corporate governance report Pages 28 to 39 Pages 41 to 78 Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 07
