GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER ACHIEVING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OFGOVERNANCE Although the expectations placed on a listed company are new to Vivo Energy, Im proud to report that our standards of governance are already on the way to being those of a much more mature and well-established PLC.
In May the IPO brought about amajor CHAIRMANS LETTER transformation of Vivo Energy.
When we JOHN DALY became a listed company in both London andJohannesburg, we also took on a clear andunequivocal requirement to adopt the highest standards of governance.
By the end of the financial year, and followingmuch hard work from our senior team, we were compliant with the majority of the UKCorporate Governance Code the Code.
In particular, the composition of the Board complies with the Codes recommendation that at least half of the Directors, excluding theChairman, should comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to my role, the Board consists of eight Directors four Independent Non-Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two representatives from ourmajor shareholders, Vitol and Helios.
In addition, weve made rapid and significant progress to establish the Board Committees appropriate to our new status, including an Audit and RiskCommittee, aNomination Committee and a .
EXPERIENCE, EXPERTISE, ENERGY Although I was officially appointed Chairman at the time of the IPO, I had already spent aconsiderable amount of time getting to know the business and the management team.
And what I found enormously impressive wasnot only the skill of the people here, butalso their enthusiasm for and knowledge of Africa, a continent I know well from mytime atBritish American Tobacco.
The countries of Africa are characterised by fast-growing, increasingly affluent and young populations, and offer tremendous opportunities to a nimble, agile company with alean management structure and ahighdegreeoflocal empowerment.
58 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our entrepreneurial culture, supported by our values of honesty, integrity and respect will help us rise tothechallenges ahead.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE2016 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THECODE The Executive Committee are bright, On admission of its shares to the FCAs Further information on compliance with capableandenergetic and these qualities are Official List and listing on the Main Market of therequirements of the Code can be found further underpinned by our Board.
As you can the London Stock Exchange on 10 May2018 as follows: see from the Directors biographies on pages Admission, Vivo Energy plc the Company LEADERSHIP 60 to 63, wehave a vibrant and diverse Board was required to comply with theprinciples The role of the Board 66 that brings practical and valuable expertise and provisions of the Code available from Division of responsibilities 68 andexperience to the business.
The Board is committed to The Chairman 68 the highest standards of corporate governance.
During the year I also met with the two The Company has applied all the main principles Non-Executive Directors 68  on a number of of the Code and has complied with all of its occasions.
Vitol and Helios have been relevant provisions except as indicated below: EFFECTIVENESS tremendously supportive in building the Composition of the Board 69 business since 2011 with a strong focus on PROVISION AND LOCATION OF EXPLANATION Appointments to the Board 71 business performance and HSSE.
2.1 A majority of members of the Nomination key roles inguiding our team through the Commitment 68 Committee should be independent NonIPO.
It has been good to see at first hand Development 69 Executive Directors.
71 their commitment to Vivo Energy, and I look Information and support 68 B.
4.2 The Chairman has not formally reviewed forward to working closely with them and theNon-Executive Directors training and Evaluation 69 development needs.
69 ourother shareholders during the months Re-election 68 andyears ahead.
6.1 The Board has not carried out a performance evaluation.
69 HSSE performance is reviewed at every ACCOUNTABILITY C. 3.1 The Board should establish an Audit Committee Board meeting, highlighting the importance of of at least three or in the case of smaller Financial and business reporting 72 maintaining our strong track record in this area.
companies two, independent Non-Executive Risk management and internal control 96 Directors.
In smaller companies the company Further information is available on page 19.
Audit Committee and auditors 72 Chairman may be a member of, but not chair, thecommittee in addition to the independent Building close relationships with stakeholders Non-Executive Directors, provided he isessential to good governance, and we REMUNERATION orshewas considered independent on providefurther details on page 70. appointment asChairman.
72 The level and components of remuneration 81 Procedure 76 OUTLOOK The Board will address the issue of 2019 will be about continuing to deliver RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS non-compliance with the Code in the coming resultswhile integrating Engen into the Dialogue with shareholders 70 year and will update shareholders in next years business at the same time.
Constructive use of general meetings 70 culture, supported by our values of honesty, integrity and respect for people will help us The Board notes the revisions to the Code rise to the challenges ahead, as we build our published in July 2018 and will be applying the reputation ofdoing what we say well do and new and amended principles on the Boards move towards our ambition of becoming practices during 2019.
A report on this process Africasmost respected energy business.
will be included within the 2019 Annual Report, whereby we intend to be fully compliant with JOHN DALY the revised Code.
CHAIRMAN 5 MARCH 2019 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 59
