Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 03 Chairmans statement Returns are improving The future is exciting We have previously highlighted the need for the Group to improve the returns that we are forour customers and achieving on the substantial organic and inorganic investments that we have made forVodafone in recent years.
In part, this relies upon a better balancing of competition and investment considerations by European regulators and governments, particularly as we approach spectrum auctions for 5G.
However, we also remain focused on making improvements under existing industry conditions.
This has been a challenging year for the Telecoms sector in Europe and particularly Vodafone India experienced a 19% Significant strategic progress in India.
While we underperformed the FTSE organic service revenue decline during 100 we outperformed our peers, in some cases We have made further progress this year on our the year, reflecting intense competitive ambition to be a converged communications materially so, as a result of the progress we are and regulatory pressures.
Nick Read will leader in all of our European markets, a mobile making.
The Boards confidence in our outlook outline in his CFO review the steps which data leader in Africa and India, and an Enterprise is demonstrated by a further 2% increase in our we are taking to strengthen the combined leader internationally.
These strategically dividend per share to 15.07 eurocents for the year.
companys future financial position, ensuring strong positions will enhance our ability that we can compete effectively going to achieve our purpose as a Group which CEO succession: our thanks forwards in a consolidated market.
is to connect everybody to live a better today to Vittorio and build a better tomorrow.
In May 2018, we announced the succession The future is exciting for our A key development was the announcement plan for the Group Chief Executive role.
From customers and for Vodafone in May 2018 of our intention to acquire 1 October, Vittorio Colao will be succeeded Vodafones ultrafast and widely available fixed Liberty Globals cable assets in Germany, by Nick Read, our current Group CFO, with and mobile networks are enabling a range the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania for Margherita Della Valle our Deputy CFO of exciting new technologies, which contribute 18.4 billion, which will transform Vodafone succeeding Nick Read and joining the Board to society and create an exciting future for into Europes leading next generation after the AGM in July.
our customers, employees and shareholders.
infrastructure owner and a truly converged On behalf of the Board, I would like to express Our new global brand campaign, The future challenger to dominant incumbents.
our gratitude to Vittorio for an outstanding is exciting.
Ready?, which launched last Please see Vittorio Colaos CEO review tenure.
He has been an exemplary leader and autumn, communicated that Vodafone will on pages 14 to 17 for more insight into this strategic visionary who has overseen a dramatic support our customers every step of the way, transaction.
In addition, we made good transformation of Vodafone into a global helping them to make the most of new and progress in securing approvals for the merger pacesetter in converged communications, exciting innovations.
of Vodafone India with Idea Cellular, which ready for the Gigabit future.
Vittorio will leave is expected to close in June 2018. as his legacy a company of great integrity with We have ambitious sustainable strong inclusive values that is exceptionally wellbusiness goals A strong financial performance positioned for the decade ahead.
I would also Our sustainable business strategy, In addition to these strategic achievements, like to recognise from a governance perspective which we outline on pages 32to 35, lies the Group enjoyed a strong financial the great way in which Vittorio has worked at the heart of our development, as we are performance.
Our organic service revenue together with the Board in an atmosphere convinced that the long-term success of our growth remained modest at a little below 2%, of openness, transparency and trust.
business is closely tied to the success of the but our sustained focus on cost efficiencies Nick has been the co-architect of the communities in which we operate.
Vodafones through the Fit for Growth programme Groups strategy together with Vittorio, digital networks and services act as a catalyst contributed to organic adjusted EBITDA combining extensive international operational 1 not only for economic growth, but also for growth of 12% 8% on an underlying basis, and commercial leadership with world-class equality and empowerment.
We focus our with broad-based improvements across most financial acumen.
I am confident Vodafone efforts where we believe we can make the of our markets.
This in turn drove a 47% rise will benefit greatly from his experience, insight greatest impact, and we now have long-term in organic adjusted EBIT and 44% growth and wisdom in his new role as Group Chief external and internal ambitions in place to in adjusted earnings per share.
Margherita has a strong track record deliver our strategy.
in financial leadership at the highest levels, Progress in Netherlands, Key highlights include our commitment and I am delighted to welcome her to the challenges in India to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions Board.
I would also add that the appointment by 40% and purchase 100% of electricity In order to strengthen our assets strategically of Nick and Margherita serves as a testament we use from renewable sources.
We also amid highly competitive markets, in recent to the strength and depth of the Vodafone intend to support 10 million young years we have announced joint ventures senior leadership team that Vittorio has people by 2022 through our future digital in the Netherlands VodafoneZiggo assembled and led over the last decade.
jobs programme, What will you be?, which and India Vodafone-Idea.
Despite a 4% will help to address the dual challenges local currency revenue decline in the year, of youth unemployment and a growing VodafoneZiggos financial performance digital skills gap.
is expected to stabilise during the year ahead, supported by the success of its convergence strategy and significant cost Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman andcapex synergies.
1 Excluding the net impact of EU regulation, UK handset financing, and settlements.
