The Weir Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Chairmans statement An ever stronger Weir Charles Berry Chairman Dear shareholder, Our decision to increase the final dividend by There have been many significant years in 5% to 46.2p per share reflects our long-term Corporate Governance Weirs history but I think 2018 will be confidence in the Groups strategy and market remembered as one of the most prospects.
You can read more in the Financial You can read more about how we comply transformative.
Review from page 30. with the UK Corporate Governance Code in the sections opposite: It was a year that saw the Group reshape our Purpose, culture and values Corporate Governance Report 73 portfolio with the acquisition of ESCO and the The Board is fully committed to building a agreed sale of Flow Control.
We are now a more sustainable business where the people, purpose, Our Board of Directors 68 focused business that concentrates on our core culture and values of the Group are aligned.
Our Group Executive 70 strength: providing premium, mission-critical We welcome the reforms in the new UK equipment used in high abrasion applications.
Corporate Governance Code, with its renewed Nomination Committee Report 84 I would like to welcome all our new ESCO emphasis on good corporate governance.
Audit Committee Report 87 colleagues into the Group and thank everyone Many of its suggested actions are already either Remuneration Committee Report 95 in Flow Control for the longstanding contribution in place or in development at Weir and we look they have made to Weir.
We are now a more forward to fully complying with the code in 2019.
Directors Report 114 focused business and as a result will be able to We continue to develop an open and transparent deliver more sustainable long-term growth that culture, creating even more opportunities for benefits all our stakeholders.
You can read more meaningful dialogue with our employees, from your CEO Jon Stanton on page 20. empowering them to make a positive contribution Financial results to our future success.
This is a core component I am pleased to report another strong year of of our We are Weir strategic framework with growth for your company.
Reported revenues its focus on building a stronger legacy for from continuing operations increased to 2.4bn, future generations.
On a constant currency basis, revenues As the Board has travelled around the business were 28% higher year on year.
Pre-tax profits in the past year, members have been fortunate from continuing operations, before exceptional to meet many dedicated people whose passion items and intangibles amortisation, of 310m for Weir and serving our customers is a source represent a 22% increase from the previous of great inspiration and competitive advantage.
Reported profit from continuing operations I would like to thank each of our 17,515 people after tax of 53m was down 71%, primarily fortheir hard work and commitment.
reflecting exceptional costs associated with the We passionately believe that all our people should ESCO acquisition.
share in the success they create and as a result we look forward to introducing the Groups first Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The Board is fully committed to building a Want to know more about Governance?
sustainable business where the people, culture visit: www.
weir investors corporate-governance and values of the Group are aligned.
global all-employee share programme later in direct reports are female by 2020.
It will ultimately make our people coin place to ensure we meet our ambition, with Using employee voice to owners of our business and in doing so ensure more details on page 59. shape our future that everyone from the CEO to the newest Board changes apprentice has a tangible stake in the future During 2018 Non-Executive Directors John We seek to continuously build employee ofthis business.
Mogford and Alan Ferguson decided not to engagement and to promote an open and transparent culture.
Our We are Weir strategic In addition, Non-Executive Director Mary Jo seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting framework articulates a clear, long-term vision and Jacobi will have responsibility for representing after serving ten and seven years respectively.
mission and reinforces our values as we grow and the voice of employees around the Board table.
During their tenure both John and Alan were succeed.
Listening to our people is an ongoing This builds on our existing commitment to making invaluable sources of wisdom, constructive priority, with a strong commitment from the board to ensure that all Weir employees can have a voice employee engagement and organisational challenge and good counsel and I would like in our future success.
effectiveness a key performance indicator tothank them for their contribution to the Board In December 2018 we launched our first ever acrossthe Group.
Global Employee Engagement survey, giving us Our contribution to society The Board was pleased to welcome three significant insight into what our people think about Our operations span more than 70 countries new Non-Executive Directors.
Stephen Young, working at Weir.
across the world and we always aim to make former CEO of global engineer Meggitt PLC, The survey tool was fully digital, mobile enabled a positive contribution to the communities we succeeded Alan Ferguson as Chairman of the and put action at the heart of the feedback with real-time dashboards available to managers and operate in.
That begins with the safety of our Audit Committee.
Cal Collins, former Chairman afocus on action planning.
The survey captured people with an aim to make Weir a zero-harm and CEO of ESCO Corporation, joined the Board the views of 12,500 84% of our employees workplace.
It also includes the contribution we following completion of the ESCO acquisition.
across 200 sites, was available in 29 languages make in salaries and supply chain employment With 18 years service with ESCO, Cal brings and was supported by a global communications with more than 575m paid in wages and extensive experience of mining and infrastructure campaign encouraging every colleague to participate.
Key results that emerged: 1.5bnpaid to suppliers annually.
Finally, Engelbert Haan was appointed on 18 February 2019.
Engelbert has extensive Weir was rated as 7.7 out of 10 as a place people We embrace diversity to help us succeed through would recommend to work global executive experience in multi-national growth and innovation.
We believe that we companies including Royal Dutch Shell plc, Sasol Colleagues each answered 26 questions will achieve great things if we can combine our across 14 categories, leaving a total of 120,000 Group and Maersk.
common goals as set out in our We are Weir comments in the process strategic framework, with the uniqueness that Looking to the rest of the year, the Board looks Colleagues feel that Weir performs strongly each of us bring as individuals.
forward to continuing to support the successful inaligning its values to those of its people execution of our strategy and listening to our To encourage a culture that is equally conducive The Groups focus on safety as a top priority is stakeholders from employees to customers being recognised by our people as something to the progression of men and women, we are and shareholders, as together we build an ever we are doing well committed to gender equality.
We help inspire, stronger Weir.
Our people inherently value the relationships train and develop the next generation, from they share with others within the business and working with schools to encourage more females feel this makes the Group a better place to work.
to consider engineering as a career to employing With such a strong response rate, there were new apprentices and graduates across the inevitably areas highlighted that show where we business.
The Board is committed to increasing Charles Berry need to improve as a Group and our focus is now the diversity of our leadership by ensuring that at on action.
Chairman least a third of Board, Group Executive and their 27 February 2019 All of the insights gained from the engagement survey are allowing us to take action into becomingan even better place to work.
ESCO Day One celebrations in Portland, USA in July 2018.
The survey tool will become an ongoing channel for listening, with three surveys planned per year for 2019 and beyond.
We hope that by developing this culture of continuous listening we will help to create an environment where people can do the best workof their lives.
