CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Financial performance I am pleased to report a year of progress for the company, with record sales, profit and earnings per share before exceptional items.
The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 35th year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key aspects of our performance during that period.
Since our flotation in 1992, earnings per share before exceptional items have grown by an average of 15.4% per annum and free cash flow per share by an average of 15.5%.
Where appropriate, the earnings per share EPS, as disclosed in the 3.
The weighted average number of shares, EPS and free cash flow per statutory accounts, have been recalculated to take account of share splits, share include those shares held in trust for employee share schemes.
the issue of new shares and capitalisation issues.
Before 2005, the accounts were prepared under UKGAAP.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included All accounts from 2005 to date have been prepared under IFRS.
in the free cash flow calculations in the annual report and accounts for the 5.
Apart from the items in notes 1 to 4, all numbers are as reported in each years 19952000. years published accounts.
2 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The comparisons below, unless stated, compare Dividends and return of capital the 52-week period under review with the 53-week The board proposes, subject to shareholders prior year.
approval, to pay an unchanged final dividend of 8.0p per share, on 29 November 2018, to shareholders Like-for-like sales, adjusted for 52 weeks, increased on the register on 26 October 2018, giving an by 5.0% 2017: 4.0%.
Total sales were 1,693.8m, unchanged total dividend for the year of 12.0p an increase of 2.0% 2017: 4.1%.
The dividend is covered 5.3 times sales increased by 5.1% 2017: 3.1%, food sales 2017: 4.2 times.
Hotel room In view of the level of capital expenditure and sales increased by 2.3% 2017: 9.9%.
the potential for investments, the board has decided to maintain the dividend at its current level Operating profit, before exceptional items, for the time being.
The operating margin, before exceptional items, During the year, 3,497,500 shares 3.21% of the increased to 7.8% 2017: 7.7%.
share capital were purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost of 36.2m, an average cost Profit before tax and exceptional items increased per share of 1,025p.
Earnings per share including shares held in trust by the Over the last 12 years, my shareholding has employee share scheme, before exceptional items, increased from 21.2% to 31.9%, as a result of the were 79.2p 2017: 69.2p.
The company has in place a rule 9 whitewash, under the UK Net interest was covered 4.8 times by operating City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, allowing profit before interest, tax and exceptional items further buybacks.
At the Annual General Meeting 2017: 4.6 times.
Total capital investment was this year, the company will seek approval for a 110.1m in the period 2017: 208.1m.
was invested in new pubs and pub extensions Financing 2017: 46.9m, 64.7m in existing pubs and IT 2017: 65.9m and 9.5m in the acquisition of As at 29 July 2018, the companys total net debt, freehold reversions, where Wetherspoon was excluding derivatives, was 726.2m already a tenant 2017: 95.3m.
Exceptional items totalled 17.0m 2017: 20.4m, Year-end net-debt-to-EBITDA was 3.39 times relating to pub disposals and closures.
an 8.7m loss on disposal and an impairment charge of 9.6m for closed sites, underperforming As at 29 July 2018, the company had 133.9m pubs and onerous leases.
2017: 163.9m of unutilised banking facilities and cash or cash equivalents, with total facilities of There were 1.3m of exceptional tax credits, 860.0m 2017: 860.0m.
owing to a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate, which creates tax credits for future years.
Existing interest-rate swaps for 600m remain in place, and an additional 95m swap was added The total cash effect of exceptional items is a in the period.
Corporation tax The current tax charge ie the cash the company will Free cash flow, after capital payments of 68.9m pay to HMRC for the period is 23.7m 2017: for existing pubs 2017: 58.6m, 13.6m for share 24.6m, benefiting from a reduction in the rate of purchases for employees 2017: 10.4m and corporation tax and a small credit relating to payments of tax and interest, decreased by 14.6m previous periods.
The accounting tax charge, to 93.4m 2017: 107.9 m. Free cash flow which appears in the income statement, is 23.6m per share was 88.4p 2017: 97.0p.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT VAT equality 2018 2017 The government would generate more revenue and m m jobs if it were to create tax equality among 332.8 VAT 323.4 supermarkets, pubs and restaurants.
Supermarkets 175.9 Alcohol duty 167.2 pay virtually no VAT in respect of food sales, PAYE and NIC 109.2 96.2 whereas pubs pay 20%.
This has enabled 55.6 Business rates 53.0 supermarkets to subsidise the price of alcoholic Corporation tax 26.1 20.7 drinks, widening the price gap to the detriment of 10.5 Machine duty 10.5 pubs and restaurants.
Climate change levy 9.2 9.7 3.0 Carbon tax 3.4 Pubs also pay around 20 pence a pint in business Fuel duty 2.1 2.1 rates, whereas supermarkets pay only about 1.7 Landfill tax 2.5 2 pence, creating further inequality.
Stamp duty 1.2 5.1 0.8 Sugar tax Pubs have lost 50% of their beer sales to 0.7 Premise licence and TV licences 0.8 supermarkets in the last 35 or so years.
TOTAL TAX 728.8 694.6 Tax per pub 000 825.0 768.4 It makes no sense for supermarkets to be treated Tax as % of net sales 43.0% 41.8% more leniently than pubs, since pubs generate far Pre-exceptional profit after tax 83.7 77.0 more jobs per pint or meal than supermarkets do, as Profit after tax as % of sales 4.9% 4.6% well as far higher levels of tax.
Pubs also make an important contribution to the social life of many Corporate governance communities and have better visibility and control of The 2016 statement contained a detailed critique of those who consume alcoholic drinks.
There has been almost no disagreement from shareholders on the issues Tax equality is particularly important for residents of raised then.
less affluent areas, since the tax differential is more important there people can less afford to pay the Wetherspoon has a significant competitive edge difference in prices between the on and off trade.
in governance, since all of our directors, bar one, were in situ at the time of the last financial crisis.
As a result, there are often fewer pubs, coffee shops and restaurants, with less employment In contrast, most PLCs are more vulnerable, since and increased high-street dereliction, in the average tenure of CEOs and non-executives is less affluent areas.
about five years, largely as a result of governance rules.
This institutionalising of inexperience Tax equality would also be in line with the principle seems wrong.
of fairness in applying taxes to different businesses.
Most corporate governance bodies disapprove of Contribution to the economy my own role as chairman, since I am not regarded Wetherspoon is proud to pay its share of tax and, as independent, although shareholders have not in this respect, is a major contributor to the followed their advice in the past.
In the year under review, we paid total that most non-executives have little option but to taxes of 728.8m, an increase of 34.2m, compared comply with these rules, since boards are criticised with the previous year, which equates to for non-adherence.
Further progress This means an average payment per pub of As always, the company has tried to improve as 825,000 per annum or 15,900 per week.
many areas of the business as possible, on a weekto-week basis, rather than aiming for big ideas or grand strategies.
Frequent calls on pubs by senior executives, the encouragement of criticism from pub staff and customers and the involvement of pub and area managers, among others, in weekly decisions, are the keys to success.
4 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We now have 807 pubs rated on the Food The average development cost for a new pub Standards Agencys website the average score is excluding the cost of freeholds was 2.8m, 4.97, with 97.3% of the pubs achieving a top rating compared with 2.3m a year ago.
The full-year of five stars and 2.4% receiving four stars.
We believe this to be the highest average rating We currently intend to open about 510 pubs for any substantial pub company.
In the separate Scottish scheme, which Property litigation records either a pass or a fail, all of our 64 pubs As previously reported, Wetherspoon agreed on have passed.
an out-of-court settlement with developer Anthony Lyons, formerly of property leisure agent We paid 43m in respect of bonuses and free Davis Coffer Lyons, in 2013 and received shares to employees in the year a slight increase approximately 1.25m from Mr Lyons.
compared with the previous year, of which 97% was paid to staff below board level and 82% was The payment relates to litigation in which paid to staff working in our pubs.
Wetherspoon claimed that Mr Lyons had been an accessory to frauds committed by Wetherspoons The company has been recognised as a Top former retained agent Van fide Berg and its directors Employer UK 2018 by The Top Employers Institute Christian Braun, George Aldridge and Richard for the 15th consecutive year.
Mr Lyons denied the claim and the litigation was contested.
J D Wetherspoon provides exceptional employee conditions, nurtures and develops talent throughout The claim related to properties in Portsmouth, all levels of the organisation and has demonstrated Leytonstone and Newbury.
The Portsmouth its leadership status in the HR environment, always property was involved in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg striving to optimise its employment practices and case itself.
In that case, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that The company substantially increased the rates of Van fide Berg, but not Mr Lyons who was not a party pay in the period for hourly paid staff, at a cost of to the case, fraudulently diverted the freehold from about 20m.
The company intends to invest a Wetherspoon to Moorstown Properties Limited, a further 27m from November this year.
company owned by Simon Conway.
Moorstown leased the premises to Wetherspoon.
Wetherspoon Under government legislation, there are different is still a leaseholder of this property a pub called minimum rates of pay for different age groups.
The company pays in excess of the minimum rates for all age groups.
The company currently pays a The properties in Leytonstone and Newbury rate in excess of the minimum rate for over 25s to the other properties in the case against Mr Lyons those aged 21 and over.
As from 5 November 2018, were not pleaded in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case.
this higher rate of pay will apply to all employees Leytonstone was leased to Wetherspoon and trades aged 18 and over.
today as The Walnut Tree public house.
Newbury was leased to Pelican plc and became Caf Rouge.
In the field of charity, thanks to the generosity and work of our customers, pub and head-office teams, As we have also reported, the company agreed to we continue to raise record amounts of money for settle its final claim in this series of cases and CLIC Sargent, supporting young cancer patients accepted 400,000 from property investor and their families.
Jason Harris, formerly of First London and now of First Urban Group.
Wetherspoon alleged that Harris In the last year, we raised approximately was an accessory to frauds committed by 1.7m, bringing the total raised to over 16m Van fide Berg.
Harris contested the claim and has more than any other corporate partner has raised not admitted liability.
Before the conclusion of the above cases, Property Wetherspoon also agreed on a settlement with The company opened six pubs during the year, Paul Ferrari of London estate agent with 18 sold or closed, resulting in a trading estate Ferrari Dewe & Co, in respect of properties referred of 883 pubs at the financial year end.
to as the Ferrari Five by Mr Justice Peter Smith.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Current trading and outlook There will be a huge gain for business and consumers if the UK copies the free trade approach of countries like Singapore, Switzerland, New Zealand, Australia, Canada and Israel, by slashing protectionist EU import taxes tariffs, on leaving the EU in March next year.
These invisible tariffs are charged on over 12,000 non-EU products, including rice, oranges, coffee, wine and childrens clothes.
The proceeds are collected by the UK taxman and sent to Brussels.
Ending tariffs will reduce shop and pub prices, improve living standards, and will help non-EU suppliers, currently discouraged by tariffs, quotas and the extensive paraphernalia of EU protectionism.
If parliament votes to end tariffs and rejects the Chequers Deal, consumers and business will benefit additionally by avoiding a cost of 39 billion, or 60 million per UK constituency, in respect of the EU divorce payment for which there is no legal obligation.
Parliament can also regain control of UK fishing waters, where 60% of the catch is currently taken by EU boats.
Unfortunately, some individuals, businesses and business organisations have mistakenly, or misleadingly, repeated the myth that food prices will rise without a deal with the EU.
In fact, the only way prices can rise post-Brexit is if parliament votes to impose tariffs.
The EU will have no say in the matter, provided that the government does not sign away the UKs rights in a deal in the meantime.
An article on this subject, which has appeared in several pub trade publications, can be found in appendix 1 below.
Like-for-like sales in the six weeks to 9 September increased by 5.5%.
The company has had a reasonable start to the financial year, but taxes, labour and interest costs are expected to be higher than those of last year, so we estimate that like-forlike sales growth of about 4.0% will be required for the company to match last years record profits.
Tim Martin Chairman 6 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Tim Martin, writing in Propel, a pub trade The result of the free trade option would be a publication: reduction in prices in shops and pubs, since the EU today charges these invisible taxes on wine, rice, Appendix 1 Propel Newsletter, 21 August 2018, coffee, oranges and more than 12,000 other Tim Martin free trade deal will not hike food non-EU products.
prices, 2018 Lower prices boost living standards, but in this case Opinion Special: Free trade deal will not hike they do so without affecting government income, food prices, argues Tim Martin since taxes on non-EU products today are collected by the UK and are paid to Brussels price Like Arnold Schwarzeneggers Terminator, the reductions in shops would cost the cyborg assassin, fictional scare stories about food Treasury nothing.
price rises post-Brexit refuse to die.
For example, the Sunday Times front-page headline on 12 August In taking the free trade path, the UK would not be said: No deal will hike food prices by 12%.
It would be following the successful approach of dynamic economies The article itself said tariffs on imports from the EU such as Singapore, Switzerland, Israel, Canada, could include cheese, up by 44%, beef up by 40%, Australia and New Zealand, which have slashed and chicken, up 22%.
It quoted the chairman of a import taxes.
leading supermarket who warned food products imported from the EU would be hit by an average Other important benefits of free trade, disparagingly tariff of 22% and reported senior executives from called no deal by Remain spin doctors, are we the big four supermarkets had made these regain control of the UKs fishing waters, where 60% predictions in briefings to the Treasury.
of fish are today landed by EU boats, and we avoid the payment of 39bn to Brussels, which The big four are Tesco, Sainsburys, Asda and government lawyers have said there is no legal Morrisons, so the reports of Treasury briefings, obligation to pay.
which havent been denied, have clearly been authorised at the top level.
So why are the supermarkets making false claims about price rises and why are they not fighting to The briefings echo the misleading 2016 statement reduce prices?
Pro-Remain ideology and ignorance of Richard Baker, then chairman of Whitbread, who are probably the answer.
told the Evening Standard failure to reach a trade deal would see tariffs of 12% on clothes and up John Allan, chairman of Tesco, like Private Frazer of to 27% on meat and of David Tyler, then chairman Dads Army, is renowned for his gloomy views.
He of Sainsburys, who told the Sunday Times in 2017 said before the referendum Brexit would ruin small if we dont get a deal and instead move to World firms and, more recently, leaving the EU too Trade Organisation WTO rules, we could face an quickly would be a mess.
And Allan is now average tariff of 22% on foodstuffs we import from president of the CBI, the employers organisation, Europe.
As Malcolm Walker, founder of food chain which strongly advocated the UKs participation in Iceland, said last week, these stories are rubbish.
the disastrous exchange rate mechanism, the euro and staying in the EU.
And Martin Scicluna, current In fact, the only way in which prices for EU imports chairman of Sainsburys, was previously chairman can rise post-Brexit is if the UK government itself of Deloitte UK, which, along with fellow accountants decides to impose taxes, also known as tariffs, on PWC, implored the public to vote Remain.
Indeed, them a sure way to lose an election.
The EU has Deloitte Digital, part of the same company, is today no say in the UKs import taxes after we leave.
Provided the government takes the sensible But the big supermarkets are playing a dangerous decision to opt for free trade, there would be no game, since the public implicitly expects companies extra taxes tariffs on EU imports.
And by deciding to do their best for customers, by lowering prices not to impose taxes on the EU, there would be no when opportunities arise.
taxes either on non-EU imports WTO rules require all countries are treated in the same way, in the absence of a deal.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT By participating in inaccurate scare stories, supermarkets appear keener on maintaining close ties to the EU, an obsession of the elite, rather than on low prices.
Pay more at the big four is the subliminal message.
This approach is bad news for shareholders and customers of the big four, but is great for Aldi, Lidl, Iceland, Amazon and other disruptors, since they see the benefits of free trade as opportunities, not threats.
Once again, elite Remainers fail to understand the public is collectively far more intelligent than they are, which is why democracy works, after all.
Tim Martin is founder and chairman of J D Wetherspoon 8 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
