Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic report Chairmans statement The Group remains highly cash generative delivering a free cash I am delighted to report another year of good flow of 96m and has, once again, grown its profit in the year performance to 31 August 2018.
Our UK and 2 with Headline Group profit before tax increasing by four per cent international travel businesses continue to deliver to 145m.
Group profit before tax decreased by 6m to 134m strong growth driven by our initiatives, an increase 2017: 140m, reflecting some non-underlying items primarily inpassenger numbers and some encouraging from a business review of High Street.
resultsfrom our newly opened stores.
This strong Value creation remains central to our plans and we will continue growth hastransformed the Group into a travel to invest in both businesses and in new opportunities to help us focused retailer, accounting for over half our sales deliver future growth.
andtwo thirds of our operating profit.
Corporate governance Our High Street business remains an important Corporate governance remains an important area of focus for partofthe WHSmith Group and continues to the Board and underpins the sustainability of our business and deliveragood performance despite the well the achievement of our strategy.
A more detailed explanation documented challenges facing high street retailers.
of our approach to corporate governance can be found in our Corporate governance report on pages 30 to 62.
Our strategycontinues to focus on sustainable profit and cash generation.
Corporate responsibility During the year, we have continued to manage those corporate responsibility CR issues which are most material to our business and to our stakeholders.
We have strong policies, programmes and governance in place across the four key areas of our strategy: environment, marketplace, workplace and Value creation remains central community engagement.
The current phase of our CR plan has to our plans and we will continue a series of objectives and targets for all of our significant issues and these are due for completion by 2020.
I am delighted to say to invest in both businesses and that we have already met our targets in the areas of greenhouse gas emissions, sustainable forestry and charitable giving.
in new opportunities to help us Further information on all aspects of our CR programmes can deliverfuture growth.
People Henry Staunton This set of results would not be possible without the commitment Chairman and hard work of our employees across every aspect of our business: our stores, our distribution centres and head offices, and I would personally like to thank each and every staff member for their ongoing loyalty and support.
Outlook While the broader economic environment is challenging, we believe we are well positioned for the year ahead.
We will invest in each business for the long term while continuing to be disciplined with our capital allocation in order to maximise the contribution from both businesses and best deliver value for our shareholders.
Henry Staunton Chairman 11 October 2018 1 Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating activities before non-underlying items and pension funding, less capital expenditure and repayments to HMRC.
See Group cash flow statement on page 74, Note 23 to the financial statements, Cash generated from operating activities on page 99 and Glossary on page 116 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
2 Headline Group profit before tax excludes non-underlying items as explained in the Financial review on page 15.
A reconciliation from Headline Group profit before tax to Group profit before tax is provided in the Group income statement on page 71.
See Glossary on page 116 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
