Strategic report Strategic report Chairmans statement Premier Inn and Costa are both fantastic brands, with market-leading positions in the UK and long-term structural opportunities to grow internationally.
Adam Crozier Chairman I joined the Board in April last year and this has given me the opportunity to get Stepping up the pace a good understanding of our Company, the businesses we operate, our 50,000 dedicated team members and the of progress increasing expectations of our millions of loyal customers.
Whitbread has a strong management team led by After a year in which Whitbread has Alison Brittain, with a clear plan to create shareholder value.
Over the past year, celebrated its 275th anniversary I was we have performed well financially and delighted to be asked to Chair the Whitbread operationally, together with making good progress with our strategic plans.
Board as we enter the next phase of the Premier Inn and Costa are both fantastic Companys development.
brands, with market-leading positions in the UK and long-term structural opportunities to grow internationally.
Over the next two years, the focus of the Board will be to ensure both businesses are structured in the best manner to deliver on the exciting opportunities available to them.
Financial performance and dividend Whitbread has continued to perform well despite shorter-term challenges in our industry.
During the year Whitbread 6.4% 5.6% grew revenues by 6.1% to 3.3 billion and growth in our statutory profit growth in full-year dividend operating profit by 6.7% to 590 million.
In addition, 877 million of operating before tax to 548 million to 101.15p cash flow was generated and, through disciplined management of capital, return on capital increased to 15.4%, whilst also maintaining a strong balance sheet.
As a result of the good financial 4.6m 100m performance, the Board recommends a donated to our chosen charities, savings delivered to date from final dividend of 69.75 pence per share, Great Ormond Street Hospital our efficiency programme making a total dividend of 101.15 pence per share, an increase of 5.6%.
The final Charity and the Costa Foundation Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 04 Strategic report dividend will be paid on 4 July 2018 business is sufficiently developed and The Board to shareholders on the register at the well-positioned to take advantage Richard Baker, my predecessor as close of business on 25 May 2018. of the structural growth opportunities Chairman, stepped down from the The Dividend Reinvestment Plan will available to them in the UK and Board on 28 February 2018.
Details of how to internationally.
Announcing our intention joined the Board as a non-executive participate in this plan can be found on now provides clarity on our strategic director in September 2009, before the Companys website.
Details of the direction to our shareholders, team becoming Chairman five years later in Groups dividend policy can be found in members and other stakeholders.
I would like to thank the Group Finance Directors review on Richard both for his fantastic service to The management team have page 47.
Whitbread and for his support to me continued to deliver strong strategic personally as I have taken on the role Strategic progress and operational performance, whilst of Chairman.
I wish him success and Both Premier Inn and Costa are clear building momentum in growth, happiness in the future.
leaders in their respective markets innovation, international expansion and both have significant structural and development of technology and Also stepping down from the Board growth opportunities in the UK and infrastructure.
The team will now also be during the year were Stephen Williams internationally.
We have clear plans to focused on ensuring the demerger of on 21 June 2017, who Richard thanked capitalise on these opportunities and Costa is conducted as fast as practical for his contribution in his statement this Alison and the team have achieved a and appropriate to optimise value for time last year, and Sir Ian Cheshire on tremendous amount over the past two Whitbreads shareholders.
We have also been working hard fundamentally believes this is the best Whitbread Board in February 2011 and, over the past two years to ensure we course of action to optimise value for during a period of more than six years, have the right skills and capabilities to shareholders over the longer term and served both as Chairman of the deliver these plans, with a particular will ensure both Premier Inn and Costa Remuneration Committee and more focus on technology, property, are positioned well to thrive as recently as Senior Independent Director.
This is I would like to thank Sir Ian for his Particular highlights of our strategic discussed further on page 41. service to the Company and wish him progress include: well for the future.
Force for Good As you will see on page 14, our wideWith these recent changes to the the announcement of an agreed reaching sustainability programme was Board, we have plans in place to further acquisition of 19 hotels in Germany, re-launched during the year as Force for strengthen the Board as we prepare for which will accelerate Premier Inns Good.
Although a number of activities the demerger of Costa, with a further network in Germany to more than fall under the Force for Good banner, update in due course.
30 hotels by 2021: they are very much integrated within our the buy-out of Costas joint venture I am very much looking forward to my everyday business activities, whether partner in South China, which provides first year as Whitbread Chairman, as thats apprenticeships, charitable Whitbread with full control of Costas we look to step up the pace of progress fundraising, energy efficiency or cup Chinese operations outside of Beijing: against our strategic priorities and recycling for example.
and structure our businesses in the best In January 2018, the new Premier Inn way to ensure they can thrive and delivering over 100 million of savings Clinical Building at Great Ormond continue to deliver value for all of our from our efficiency programme so far, Street Hospital was formally opened stakeholders.
I hope to meet some which has helped offset the significant by HRH the Duchess of Cambridge.
of you at our AGM on Wednesday inflationary pressure experienced This was made possible by the teams 27 June 2018. recently in our industry.
in our hotels and restaurants raising 7.5 million to fund the facility.
We are The pace of strategic delivery over the now extending our partnership with past year has been strong, and the plans Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity in place will ensure both businesses can and are targeting to raise a further Adam Crozier continue to create value for all of our 10 million to build a new facility for Chairman stakeholders over the long term.
children with sight and hearing 24 April 2018 impairments.
Update on Whitbreads structure The Board has conducted regular and Another recent highlight has been rigorous reviews of its strategy and the launch of an innovative and structure for a number of years.
For industry-leading recycling initiative in some time, the Board has been of the Costa.
By 2020, Costa is committed view that at the right time Premier Inn to recycling at least 500 million coffee and Costa should be independent cups a year, representing one-fifth companies.
A separation will provide of the 2.5 billion cups consumed in enhanced focus for each business and the UK each year.
This will ensure give shareholders an investment in two we recycle as many cups as we use, high quality businesses.
We have made becoming cup neutral, and will be significant progress with our strategy achieved through a broad spectrum over the last two years and are now of measures, including Costa paying committed to a demerger of Costa, for waste collectors to collect coffee which will enable long-term value to be cups and ensure they are delivered to optimised for our shareholders.
We will appropriate recycling facilities.
ensure that prior to separation each Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 05
