Chairmans statement Last year, I commented on tangible signs that many of the companies It has been a particularly busy year and I would like to thank the Board in the Woodford Patient Capital Trust WPCT portfolio were making for giving so generously of its time.
The Board is evolving, and steps good progress and that we hoped to see this reflected in financial have been taken to enlarge the scope of the Audit Committee, performance in the forthcoming year.
enabling it to spend even more time with the Portfolio Manager on its strategy and the portfolio.
I would also like to wish Alan Hodson well The progress made by some of WPCTs larger unquoted holdings as he is stepping down in the summer to spend more time on has resulted, in part, in the increase in net asset value NAV during the charitable endeavours.
However, this was tempered by the performance of some of the smaller and medium-sized quoted The objective of WPCT remains the same.
The portfolio is well holdings in the portfolio where progress has often not been reflected established with strength and depth, while there have been solid signs in the share price.
The Portfolio Manager has previously stated that performance should be judged on a three-to-five-year view.
The valuation of some of the Companys largest investments are sensitive As the top companies in our portfolio move through points of inflexion to achieving key milestones and we have seen, as with Prothena, the in forthcoming years, we would expect this to be more strongly detrimental impact this can have on the portfolio when they are reflected in the NAV.
The share price traded at an average 11.3 per missed.
However, Autoluss stock market listing highlights the impact cent discount to its NAV and during the year the Board kept this success can have and the Portfolio Manager believes that many more regularly under review.
of the portfolio companies are set to deliver this year.
The Board will be monitoring performance closely at what is an important stage of the WPCT has a unique portfolio of companies, developed over a long Companys life cycle.
period, where the Portfolio Manager has a deep insight into the evolution of the businesses.
Many of these companies are now in Susan Searle the commercialisation phase.
For example, Proton Partners, the Chairman UKs first high-energy proton beam therapy provider, treated 25 patients in its Cancer Centre in Newport last year and opened two further centres in Northumberland and Reading.
Autolus successfully 4 April 2019 listed on NASDAQ and its CAR-T cell technology is in a strong position to drive advances in the battle against cancer.
Meanwhile, one of the Companys largest holdings, Industrial Heat, raised capital from external investors having shown positive progress and it is anticipating reaching a key milestone in the year ahead.
Companies within the portfolio are also attracting high-calibre individuals, typified by the senior appointments at Immunocore see page 15.
The Portfolio Manager continues to update investors with developments in the portfolio and we also held a capital markets investor day in the summer to increase awareness.
WPCT re-entered the FTSE250 in December and continues to attract support from a wide variety of investors for whom it represents a unique, long-term portfolio of disruptive high-potential businesses.
We also welcomed a number of new institutional shareholders with whom I met.
In February 2019, following more than a year of discussions with external parties including legal counsel and commissioning independent valuation reports, WPCT acquired a portfolio of five unquoted assets from the LF Woodford Equity Income Fund.
The transaction was completed by issuing WPCT shares at the prevailing NAV plus costs of the Company, being at a premium to the share price, resulting in no dilution to shareholders.
It is a positive transaction for shareholders, and we have increased positions in portfolio companies in which the Portfolio Manager has conviction.
The assets included Atom Bank, which brings some balance in risk and sector to the top of the portfolio having represented approximately half of the transaction.
8 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Portfolio Manager's review 2018 Against a backdrop of widespread equity market declines, WPCT Following some disappointing initial developments, the investment delivered a positive NAV return of 6.9 per cent in 2018.
The overall was written down in 2016.
Since then, however, progress within the performance of a portfolio is always the product of many moving portfolio of technologies has shown increasing promise.
In the year under review, however, returns were dominated the company last year raising capital from other investors to continue by events at three companies, and one broader theme that has the path to commercialisation, the valuation of the company was persisted throughout the Companys short life thus far.
adjusted up to reflect this progress.
Although this is positive progress for Industrial Heat and the Company, it remains early days in the Firstly, the stock specifics.
As we reported in last years annual report development and commercialisation of these technologies.
and the interim report, the Company suffered a setback during April 2018 when Prothena announced that its Pronto trial, investigating its More broadly, we have been pleased with the operational progress lead asset, NEOD001, in AL amyloidosis, had been unsuccessful.
This being delivered by the majority of companies in the portfolio.
Within was a very disappointing outcome for the company and its investors, the unquoted element of the portfolio, this has been reflected in which stemmed from a much bigger and more significant placebo valuation changes during 2018, 20 unquoted holdings including effect than anything seen in prior trials would have suggested.
More Industrial Heat were revalued upwards, with 16 positions revalued detail can be found on Woodfords website.
The portfolios success stories are gradually beginning to account for a larger proportion of assets, so this has meant that the contribution from the positive uplifts was More positively, events at two unquoted companies provided some significantly greater than the contribution from the negatives.
This encouraging momentum to the Companys NAV as the year unfolded.
is consistent with what we have been expecting not everything In June, the initial public offering IPO of Autolus, a clinical-stage will work, but the rewards for success are asymmetric to the impact biotechnology business at the forefront of a revolution in cancer of disappointment.
treatment, saw this business transition from an unquoted holding to a quoted one at a materially higher valuation.
The IPO completed at the This pattern, however, was not replicated in the quoted part of the top of the guided price range and at a premium of 73 per cent to the portfolio.
The operational performance of the quoted portfolio was price of the companys previous funding round in September 2017. broadly similar to that of the unquoted portfolio.
It was by no means all Since listing, the shares have traded positively, albeit with some positive, but collectively, we have seen many more operational steps volatility, standing by year end more than 90 per cent higher than the forward than steps back from the portfolio of quoted businesses.
We believe this is a very positive development for Autolus and, The share price performance of the quoted portfolio, however, was therefore, for the Company.
The listing provided the opportunity to starkly different.
This is not a reflection of what has happened to those raise additional capital for further pipeline development, while also businesses: the decline in share prices was further evidence of the increasing its profile within the biotechnology sector.
We are not markets aversion to early-stage investment opportunities in the surprised to see such a positive reception from the wider investment current environment.
This situation has worsened since the Company community, given the progress the company has already made with launched in 2015, but I continue to believe that it wont take much in its technology and the significant opportunity that lies ahead.
We the way of genuine commercial success from these businesses for believe there is considerable further upside potential should Autolus the market and other investors such as private equity and sovereign continue to develop its assets positively through clinical trials.
Further wealth to wake up to the astonishing value on offer.
news in this regard was provided towards the end of the year, with promising data from two ongoing clinical trials in its lead programme Ironically, several of the more mature companies in the portfolio are AUTO-3, presented at the American Society of Hematology ASH now at a stage where a stock market listing would appear appropriate.
Indeed, several of them are well beyond the stage at which, historically, an introduction to public markets would typically have occurred.
We Meanwhile, in September, Industrial Heat also saw a meaningful have encouraged these businesses to remain private for as long as valuation uplift.
The company has built a platform of new energy possible.
We are only comfortable exposing these businesses to the technologies focused on harnessing hitherto poorly understood or slings and arrows of a stock market listing if we are confident that it can neglected energy science, including cold fusion.
We are fully be done in a manner that will not compromise their ability to fulfil the cognisant of the scepticism that has surrounded the theory and potential that we have always seen in them.
history of this branch of science.
However, we believe the potential disruptive implications of a new, substantially more efficient source of Nevertheless, that process is underway for several of the portfolios energy deem the various fields of neglected energy science worthy of largest holdings.
For example, Proton Partners announced a listing further investigation.
We funded Industrial Heat in 2015 to engage on Londons NEX Exchange Growth Market in February 2019, which credible world-leading institutions to rigorously assess the progress of is another important stepping stone for that companys long-term its technologies.
We look forward to sharing further news with you in this regard, as the year progresses.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 9 Portfolio Manager's review 2018 CONTINUED At the same time, our attention is, of course, also on nurturing the next wave of global disruptors.
Further down the portfolio list, there are several businesses that have made steady progress on the road towards commercialisation since we first backed them.
The likes of Inivata a leader in liquid biopsy, Federated Wireless mobile spectrum sharing technology and Carrick Therapeutics targeted cancer therapies are hot on the heels of the larger positions in the portfolio, both in terms of the disruption they can bring to their respective industries, and in terms of the value they can continue to create.
Irrespective of their stage of development, we are doing everything we can to ensure positive outcomes for the companies in which WPCT has invested.
In turn, we are doing everything we can to ensure positive outcomes for the shareholders of this Company.
Many things are beyond our control, and beyond the control of the companies in which we have invested.
There will always be things that dont go to plan within a portfolio like this, but with an appropriate balance of patience, support and determination, there is usually a path forward.
Collectively, this represents a path towards long-term value creation, and it is a path upon which WPCT is progressing positively.
We look forward to the future with great confidence and would like to thank shareholders for the continued support.
Neil Woodford Head of Investment 4 April 2019 10 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Progress report: journey to commercial success Many of the holdings in the portfolio have made good progress and operational milestones are being met.
On the following pages, we examine in more detail a selection of companies in the portfolio and the progress they made in 2018.
Progress report: journey to commercial success CONTINUED Autolus CeQur Evofem Federated Wireless Genomics Immunocore Industrial Heat Kymab Mission Therapeutics Oxford Nanopore Proton Partners Seedrs Sensyne Health Spin Memory Ultrahaptics Autolus Autolus is at the forefront of a revolutionary immuno-oncology treatment, dubbed the 'living medicine', that is offering new hope to patients suffering from blood-related cancers such as leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma.
In June it listed on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange.
It is investing in a full-scale commercial manufacturing centre in Rockville to be opened in 2021 and is building out its existing facility in Enfield, UK, opening in 2020.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 13 Progress report: Journey to commercial success CONTINUED CeQur Evofem Federated Wireless CeQur is developing a In December, Evofem In July, the Federal portfolio of simple-to-use, announced that its phase 3 Communications injection-free wearable clinical trial of Amphora for Commission FCC in the devices that deliver insulin the prevention of pregnancy US issued a public notice to diabetics and can be successfully met its primary that signals the start of worn for multiple days.
"The company commercial developments July, the company acquired believes the results ""solidify in shared spectrum."
This an approved mealtime Amphora's position as the has formalised the path for insulin delivery device from most substantial birth control commercialisation and Johnson and Johnson, PaQ innovation in 20 years.
The Federated Wireless is now Meal, which it is planning to prescription contraceptive well positioned to see its commercialise in 2019. market is estimated to be large customers offering worth $5.5bn.
will submit the Amphora new drug application to the US Food and Drug Administration FDA in 2019 and, if approved, plans commercialisation from January 2020.
14 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Genomics Immunocore Industrial Heat Genomics brings together In June, Immunocore The NAV of WPCT saw a vast swathes of genomic data presented positive data on material uplift as a result of to improve the drug discovery its lead drug candidate for developments at Industrial process, making it faster, the treatment of metastatic Heat, which has built a more cost-efficient and uveal melanoma, while in platform of new energy increasing the likelihood of November it entered into a technologies.
In August, the partnership with Genentech, course of the past 12 company successfully part of the Roche Group.
months, there have been completed a funding round More recently, it made two developments within and secured a collaboration key appointments who will Industrial Heat's portfolio of with global pharmaceutical lead the company through technologies that have company Vertex.
the next, scale-up phase of shown increasing promise.
Bahija Jallal With the company raising is the companys new chief capital from other investors executive, having joined from to continue the path to AstraZenecas biologics commercialisation, the research and development valuation of the company unit, MedImmune, where was adjusted to reflect this she was President.
Meanwhile, David Berman joined as Head of R&D having overseen AstraZenecas Immunooncology IO Franchise.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 15 Progress report: Journey to commercial success CONTINUED Kymab Mission Therapeutics Oxford Nanopore Kymab, which is also backed It is estimated that 50m Oxford Nanopore is by the Wellcome Trust and people are living with developing a new generation the Bill & Melinda Gates dementia and Alzheimer's of DNA sequencers, some of Foundation, is developing disease.
This number is which are small, portable and monoclonal antibody expected to double every affordable.
These are also the treatments a type of 20 years and, in November, world's only sequencers that therapeutic drug to counter Mission Therapeutics can deliver DNA analysis in illnesses such as atopic announced a major real-time.
In June, full-year dermatitis and cancer.
In July, collaboration with AbbVie, results highlighted that its it announced that its one of the world's biggest orders had increased by potential atopic dermatitis global pharmaceutical 240 per cent on the previous treatment called KY1005 was companies, in the research year, while in the autumn it moving to a phase 2 trial and preclinical treatment was boosted by an equity following positive results of Alzheimer's and investment of 50m from from the phase 1 study in Parkinson's disease.
Amgen, a world leader in healthy volunteers.
using strategic human genetics to deliver new medicines to patients.
16 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Proton Partners Seedrs Sensyne Health The UK's first high-energy Seedrs, the crowdfunding The company analyses NHS proton beam therapy provider platform, has now invested patient data using artificial announced in June that it had more than 500m into intelligence algorithms to help treated its first patient with campaigns funded on the healthcare companies proton beam therapy at its platform since launch discover new medicines.
Newport centre also a including 195m invested Founded by Lord Drayson, first for the UK.
In in 186 successful pitches the former science December, it announced during 2018.
The company minister, the company that it would be treating has also launched its autoformerly known as patients referred through invest product another Drayson Health successfully NHS Wales at its Newport operational milestone for listed on the London Stock centre.
In August, the the business.
It now company opened its second has six NHS trusts using its cancer centre in digital applications two of Northumberland and in which have come onboard October its third centre was since the IPO.
The company opened in Reading.
recently signed a non-exclusive agreement with Jefferson Health, one of the largest healthcare providers in Pennsylvania and a three-year research alliance with Oxford Universitys Big Data Institute.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 17 Progress report: Journey to commercial success CONTINUED Spin Memory Ultrahaptics In November, Spin Memory Towards the end of the year, formerly known as Spin Ultrahaptics completed a Transfer Technologies 35m financing round.
The secured a $52m Series B money will support both the funding round and company's commercial and commercial agreements R&D activities through its with Arm, the world's leading global expansion within semiconductor IP company, virtual and augmented reality and with Nasdaq-listed markets.
The company, Applied Materials, a leading originally a University of equipment supplier to the Bristol spin-out, has semi-conductor industry.
developed a unique technology that uses high-frequency ultrasound to enable the sensation of touch to be felt in mid-air.
It has an array of commercial partners including Nike, Dell, Intel and IBM.
18 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
