STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance Overview I am delighted to report another strong year at Wizz Air.
The 2018 financial year saw the Company yet again achieve market leading growth while continuing to deliver one of the highest profit margins of all European airlines.
Despite the challenging business conditions facing the European airline industry during the year, Wizz Air carried 29.6 million passengers, an increase of 24.7% year-on-year.
Central to our long-term growth plans is our ability to grow passenger numbers profitably while retaining tight control over costs, which we delivered by growing both revenues and profit.
In FY2018, Wizz Air revenues grew 24.0% and net profit grew 22.1%, translating into a net profit margin of 14.1%, a performance which few airlines in Europe can match.
Strategy Profitable capacity growth and a dedication to achieving the lowest possible operating costs are, and will remain, the key focus for Wizz Air.
Together, they allow us to continue to take advantage of the significant growth opportunity in Central and Eastern Europe which remains the Companys core market region.
Nonetheless, the Companys agility and cost focus mean that it is well placed to take advantage of commercial opportunities as they arise and which lead in FY2018 to the announcement of two Western European bases in London Luton and Vienna.
The strategy has led to increasing and impressive financial strength which, during FY2018, enabled the Company to deliver a number of other important milestones: } More than 100 new routes were announced, building our core markets as well as expanding our footprint outside the CEE and widening our customer base. }
Launching a brand new UK airline, Wizz Air UK Limited, confirming our commitment to the UK market and significant investment in Luton. }
Ordering a total of 156 new Airbus A320 family aircraft to ensure an enviable committed pipeline of latesttechnology, ultra-efficient aircraft deliveries until 2026 and so providing a firm foundation for future growth. }
Receiving investment-grade ratings from both Moodys and Fitch, confirming the strength and prospects of our business and financial position.
We believe that, as one of Europes fastest growing airlines and with our unique position in Central and Eastern Europe, our ultra-low-cost base, our ever expanding diversified network the corporate agility which allows us to respond quickly to market opportunities and our commitment to driving our operating costs ever lower, Wizz Air is well placed to continue to grow profitably to meet industry challenges and consolidate its market leading position and, so, continue to deliver significant growth and create long-term value for our stakeholders.
Governance Board Changes As a Board, we recognise that our ability to create value for our stakeholders is heavily linked to our commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board and I feel we have the right balance of skills, experience and backgrounds to oversee the execution of our strategy and, when necessary, challenge the management team.
We have once again carried out an internal evaluation of the Boards performance and, during the 2019 financial year, we shall once again run an  board appraisal process, taking note of highlighted development areas to ensure ongoing high standards.
We are also delighted to have recently announced the appointment of Stephen Jones as Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
Stephen is responsible for Wizz Air's commercial, marketing and information technology organizations and reports directly to our CEO.
His appointment is an important part of the Boards succession planning, which is an important element of good governance, ensuring that we are fully prepared for any departures from key positions.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Wioletta Rosoowska, who stepped down from the Board in February.
We are in the process of a recruitment process for a new non-executive Director and will announce a new appointment in due course.
Culture & Stakeholders During 2018, the Board and senior management placed increased emphasis on articulating and embedding our corporate culture to ensure WIZZs values are embraced by and permeate through the entire organisation.
As a company, we focus not just on driving superior returns but how we generate those returns.
We aim to generate value for all our stakeholders: our customers, our people, our shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
In order to promote the long-term success of our business, the Board is firmly aware of the importance of building and maintaining successful relationships with a wide range of stakeholders.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 7 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Customers I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our customers, old and new, for their continued support.
As we expand our network we are delighted that many new customers are able to enjoy our services at incredibly low fares.
Enhancing the service we deliver to our customers is a constant focus for senior management and the Board.
We continue to undertake initiatives to ensure that our customers enjoy the lowest prices and maximum choice, are taken care of and experience high levels of satisfaction when travelling safely with Wizz Air.
As part of this focus, we consistently engage in customer surveys and the results of those surveys are reported to the Board.
This gives us a valuable insight into the evolving needs of our ever expanding customer base.
Employees The energy and commitment of our more than 3,600 colleagues is vital to our success and to fostering a service that our customers are consistently pleased with.
It is great to see the level of commitment from our colleagues who consistently go the extra mile to help our customers.
Our annual employee survey helps us understand what is important to our colleagues and where we, as a Board and senior management team, need to focus.
As a Board, we are aware that the prospects for longterm success of our business are inextricably linked to the dedication and engagement of our colleagues.
I want to thank them once again for all their hard work without them we would not be in a position to build on the huge successes to date by targeting further growth.
Communities Wizz Air has operations in over 141 airports in 44 countries and we strive to play an active role in the communities in which we operate.
In 2018, we invested in a number of local community projects across Europe, which proved successful and engaging for both our employees and the communities where we have operations.
We also continue to make progress in ensuring our carbon footprint is as small as possible.
The Board recognises the key role reducing greenhouse gases will play in our creation of a sustainable aviation industry and, for our stakeholders, can continue to create.
Our business model, which dictates that we operate the most efficient, latest-technology aircraft and, indeed, operate them in the most efficient way, means that our emissions decrease as we replace our fleet and, in turn, the carbon footprint of each of our customers.
Looking Ahead At the end of another hugely successful year for the business, I know that the Board is looking forward to working with the Companys senior management team and all colleagues to build on ouly ultar position as one of the worlds few truly ultra low cost airlines.
While there remains some uncertainty surrounding the future of European aviation policy, we comply with relevant ownership and control regulations and are confident that we will continue to do so, whatever the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union might bring.
As the 2019 financial year begins we remain very optimistic for the coming twelve months.
While market conditions may fluctuate, our strategy remains clear and consistent: driving low operating costs and achieving profitable growth is our priority.
With the strength of our balance sheet recognised by our recently received investment grade status, a continued focus on becoming the absolute cost leader amongst European airlines and a committed delivery stream of the latest-technology aircraft for at least the next eight years, we believe that Wizz Air has substantial foundations to drive growth and deliver strong returns for our shareholders.
William A. Franke Chairman 23 May 2018 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 8
