Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Chairmans statement A TURNAROUND SHARED BY ALL STAKEHOLDERS The Board spend time balancing the need to deliver adequate shortterm returns with the imperative of investing back in the shopping trip, such that we can deliver longterm sustainable growth Andrew Higginson, Chairman 4 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information HIGHLIGHTS 10.09p Total dividend 12.19p Underlying basic earnings per share 2016 17: 10.86p It is now three years since David and the team started the Morrisons This last point is especially important for us: our dedicated and hardturnaround journey.
The business is in good shape.
Like-for-like sales have working colleagues are the driving force behind the turnaround and, as been positive for more than two years, the balance sheet and cash flow they continue to improve the shopping trip for customers, we are paying are strong, and we are developing successful relationships with retail and them more in hourly wages and a higher annual bonus.
Our hourly pay wholesale partners such as Ocado, Amazon, Rontec, Timpson and, more rate for front line colleagues has increased by 27% in just three years, recently, McColls and Sandpiper in the Channel Islands.
and the average colleague bonus payment has more than doubled over the last two years.
In addition, over 1,000 of our most senior colleagues, We were pleased with our strong performance last year, becoming more including store managers, are benefiting from our Long Term Incentive competitive for customers and delivering strong sales, profit and return Plan.
As I said in last years Annual Report, the management team are on capital employed ROCE growth in a very tough environment, despite making a big difference at Morrisons, and they will be well rewarded over being faced with some substantial input inflation and other cost pressures.
the long term for consistent success, but this will be a turnaround shared There is still a very long way to go.
Morrisons has many opportunities by all the Morrisons team.
to grow and develop into a broader, stronger business.
As I noted last year, a sustainable turnaround will be accompanied by To achieve success for the long term, the Board will give management a sustainable dividend, and I am pleased that we recently announced headroom to execute the Fix, Rebuild and Grow strategy.
We are a final ordinary dividend of 4.43p per share.
As we continue to Fix, determined not to repeat the missteps of the food retail industry in Rebuild and Grow, Morrisons will remain highly cash generative and our recent years, where inappropriate targets sometimes contributed to commitment to capital disciplined growth will be unwavering.
We intend behaviours and strategies that were not in the best long-term interests to return surplus capital to shareholders, and are proposing a special of stakeholders.
Our targets for management are designed to prioritise dividend of 4.00p per share which, together with the ordinary, means consistent and sustainable long-term growth over short-term profit.
a 10.09p total dividend for the year, up 85.8% on last year.
In future we will continue to be guided by the principles of our capital allocation The Board was disappointed to receive only a low vote of support for the framework, and retain a strong and flexible balance sheet.
We will Directors remuneration report at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, review options for uses of our strong free cash flow each year.
and has been grateful for subsequent shareholder consultation and feedback.
We are pleased the new remuneration policy, commencing this Andrew Higginson year, was well supported, and hope to now move forward with interests Chairman and opinions aligned.
Key to aligning all those stakeholder interests will be continuing to improve the shopping trip for customers.
As I have said before, this may seem simple but it is not easy.
We are making good progress.
Fresh Look is transforming the look and feel of our stores: new and improved ranges are bringing excitement, freshness and provenance to our offer, and: our unique team of food makers and shopkeepers are reconnecting with customers and serving them better.
Governance Highlights Board composition and membership page 28 Board effectiveness page 28 External Auditor pages 36 and 37 The Board comprises of seven independent Consilium Board Review undertook an external review The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Groups Non-Executive Directors and two ExecutiveDirectors of Board effectiveness this year, and reported that the statutory auditor, PwC, who were appointed in 2014 15, Board has a well balanced set of capabilities, and that are performing effectively There is an appropriate mixture of skills and experience governance and compliance is strong on the Board, which has been further strengthened The Board has a policy on the engagement of the with the appointment of Tony van Kralingen and The Directors have all attended an appropriate number external auditor to supply non-auditservices KevinHavelock of Board and Committee meetings and commit Accountability page 29 sufficient time to the Group There is a clear division of responsibilities between The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of internal the roles of Chairman and the ChiefExecutive control and that risk is being managed effectively All Directors stand for re-election annually at the AGM across the Group Our Senior Independent Director is Rooney Anand 5
