249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 04 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Sir Martin Smith I am delighted to report that your Company has continued to perform strongly both in absolute terms and also compared to its Benchmark.
The Companys share issuance and share buy-back Review of the year and performance authorities will as usual be proposed for renewal at the Against a background of a modest decline in the global Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in healthcare sector, I am pleased to report that both the September 2018.
Companys share price and the net asset value per share produced a positive total return which outperformed the Revenue and dividend Companys Benchmark, the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis.
Shareholders will be aware that it remains the Companys policy to pursue capital growth for shareholders and to pay The Companys net asset value per share total return was dividends at least to the extent required to maintain 2.8% and the share price total return was 5.3%.
A first interim dividend of 6.5p per Companys Benchmark fell by 2.5% during the year.
Both the share, for the year ended 31 March 2018, was paid on Companys portfolio and the Benchmark have a high 9 January 2018 to shareholders on the register on exposure to companies denominated in U. S. $.
The Companys net revenue return for the strengthening of sterling against the U. S. $ during the year, by year as a whole fell slightly to 9.0 million 2017: 10.7 m due, 12.0%, acted as a headwind for the Companys performance in part, to a fall in the level of income received, and also to the in absolute terms.
strength of sterling against the U. S. $.
Accordingly, the Board has declared a slightly reduced second interim dividend of The Company had, on average, leverage of 16.2% 2017: 16.3% 11.0p per share which, together with the first interim dividend during the year which contributed 0.9% to performance already paid, makes a total dividend for the year of 17.5p 2017: the contribution to performance was 3.2%.
Based on the closing mid-market The long-term performance of the Company continues to be share price of 2,680.0p on 14 June 2018, the total dividend strong and it is pleasing to note that from the Companys payment for the year represents a current yield of 0.7%.
inception in 1995 to 31 March 2018, the total return of the The second interim dividend will be payable on 31 July 2018 to Companys net asset value per share has been 2,812.7%, shareholders on the register of members on 22 June 2018. equivalent to a compound annual return of 15.8%.
This The associated ex-dividend date will be 21 June 2018. compares to a cumulative blended Benchmark return of 1,143.9%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 11.6% over the same period.
Composition of the Board In December 2017 Sam Isaly, the former Managing Partner at Further information on the healthcare sector and on the OrbiMed and the Companys lead portfolio manager, Companys investments can be found in the Portfolio announced his plans to step down as Managing Partner of Managers Review.
He subsequently left the Board of the Company in January 2018 and has recently completed his retirement Capital from OrbiMed.
On behalf of the Board, and also The Companys share price has traded at a premium to the shareholders, I would like to thank him for the significant net asset value per share for much of the year.
In accordance contribution he has made to the affairs of the Company since with the Companys share price premium management policy its inception.
The portfolio remains very well positioned in the 3,355,000 new shares were issued during the year at a small very capable hands of Sven Borho one of OrbiMeds premium to the Companys cum income net asset value per Managing Partners and Trevor Polischuk.
This issuance gave rise to the receipt of 84.7m of new I am delighted that Sven Borho has joined the Board, funds by the Company which have been invested in line with asannounced on 7 June 2018.
Sven is a founding Partner of the Companys investment objective.
Since the end of the OrbiMed and has been part of the team that manages the year a further 107,500 new shares have been issued raising Companys portfolio since the Companys inception.
No shares were repurchased by the Aresolution proposing Svens appointment to the Board will Company during the year and to the date of this report and no be considered by shareholders at this years Annual General shares were held in treasury.
"Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 04 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 05 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Key Information Document Annual General Meeting Shareholders may be aware that new regulations, the The Board is keen to welcome all shareholders to the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Companys Annual General Meeting which offers an ""PRIIPs"" Regulation, came into effect from 1 January 2018. opportunity to meet the Directors and also to hear the views Under these regulations, the Company is required to prepare of our Portfolio Manager."
"The Annual General Meeting of the and publish a key information document ""KID"" to help Company will be held at Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, potential investors understand the nature, risk and costs of LondonEC2Y 5DE on Thursday, 20 September 2018 from this product and to allow comparison with others."
The KID contains information about the Company in a highly Following improvements in technology the Company will prescribed format, both in terms of the calculation of the cease, with effect from our 2019 Annual General Meeting, to numbers and also the narrative, with limited ability to add issue paper proxy forms to shareholders.
Voting on additional context and explanations.
The Board believes that resolutions to be considered at the Companys general the KID should therefore be considered only in conjunction meetings including the Annual General Meeting will be able with other material produced about the Company including to be made via our Registrars website at the annual report, the half year report and the monthly www.
A paper proxy form, however, will be factsheet which, inter alia, describe the Companys available on request from our Registrar.
investment objective together with the investment philosophy of our Portfolio Manager.
All of these documents are available at www.
The Board continues to Sir Martin Smith keep this matter under review.
Chairman Outlook 15 June 2018 Our Portfolio Manager expects the outlook to continue to be positive for the healthcare sector.
In particular, they believe that attractive valuations, merger & acquisition activity, strong innovation, and a favourable regulatory environment and a benign U. S. corporate tax environment will all be key drivers.
Our Portfolio Managers focus remains on the selection of stocks with strong prospects for capital enhancement and your Board firmly believes that the long-term investor will continue to be well rewarded.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 05
