CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER CEO APPOINTMENT NEW STRATEGY The Board of any company has no more In a year of significant change for WPP and important task than to select its leader.
challenges on a number of fronts the Board and the executive team worked together The process to appoint the new Chief very constructively to stabilise the business Executive Officer of WPP was a rigorous one, and position it for future success.
and we considered a range of outstanding candidates for the role.
The external WPP, like the wider industry, faces deep benchmarking was especially valuable in structural shifts that as well as posing helping us to gauge the strength of the questions present significant opportunities.
We have been pleased by the backing we have received from investors, clients, The Board was unanimous in its decision to partners and our own people for the new name Mark Read as CEO.
His stewardship of strategy that will help the Company to the business alongside Andrew Scott in the capture those opportunities, and for the weeks following Sir Martin Sorrells newleadership team assembled to deliver it.
resignation was exemplary, and he demonstrated all the qualities required BOARD CHANGES ofaninspiring and effective leader.
As your Company changes, so too does its Board.
In October 2018 Paul Richardson, The interim arrangements, with Mark and Group Finance Director, informed the Board Andrew stepping up as co-Chief Operating that he would step down during the course Officers, and Marks subsequent appointment of 2019, and the process to find his successor as CEO, reflect the robustness of the Boards is well underway.
We would like to thank succession planning over a number of years.
Paul for his contribution to WPP over 27 years with the Company.
Paul joined as Director of We engaged with investors and clients Treasury, was appointed to his current role throughout the recruitment process and we four years later, and is one of the architects were grateful for the strong levels of support of the present-day WPP.
He leaves with our ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 for the Company and management team best wishes for the future.
12 noon on Wednesday 12 June 2019 during the period of transition, and for the Purcell Room, Southbank Centre Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX choice of Mark as CEO.
88 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHAIRMANS LETTER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We also thank Hugo Shong, who decided to Although WPP has good gender balance up IN A YEAR OF retire from the Board in 2018 due to additional to and including senior management level, SIGNIFICANT commitments outside WPP and increased the proportion of women falls significantly in CHANGE FOR WPP, pressure on his time and availability.
He was the most senior executive tiers as seen in THE BOARD AND THE an important contributor to the Board and its our UK Gender Pay Gap figures for 2018.
It is Compensation, Audit and Nomination and encouraging, as we work to address this EXECUTIVE TEAM Governance Committees during his five years imbalance, that WPP was recognised in WORKED TOGETHER as a Director, and we are grateful for his Bloombergs 2019 Gender-Equality Index TO STABILISE THE ongoingassistance with WPPs businesses in GEI as an industry leader committed to BUSINESS AND China.
As Ruigang Li comes to the end of his transparency in gender reporting and tenure in 2019, and will not be standing advancing womens equality the only POSITION IT FOR forre-election at this years Annual General company among its peers to be included FUTURE SUCCESS.
Meeting, we are seeking a new Director with inthe list.
similar levels of experience of the Chinese Roberto Quarta market as we refresh the Boardscomposition.
SUSTAINABILITY Chairman The teams determination to place culture We are delighted to be joined by Cindy Rose and values at the heart of the new strategy OBE as the newest member of the Board and builds on WPPs longstanding commitment the Audit Committee.
Cindy is hugely to sustainable business and sustainability respected within the worlds of technology reporting.
The Board welcomes the focus on and business, and her input will be of great sustainable business and purpose within the benefit as WPP responds to a changing new UK Corporate Governance Code.
marketplace and transforms its business.
WPP has been a leader in its sector on VALUES AND CULTURE sustainability: we provide details of our Mark and the wider executive team have the approach from the work we do for clients Boards full support as they implement the and our substantial pro bono contribution to plan to restore the Company to sustainable the ongoing programme to reduce our top-line growth.
A key element of that plan is carbon intensity from page 60.
We support an emphasis on promoting the kind of values the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial and building the kind of culture that make Disclosures and this year we have underlined WPP a magnet for talented people, and a its importance in our report and made our company everyone is proud to work for.
The new team places great importance on OUR PEOPLE listening to people across the Company and Finally, I would like to say how much the taking their opinions into account when Board appreciates the dedication and formulating strategy.
We have established passion for great work shown by the our first employee forum in the UK, and these thousands of people worldwide who make will be rolled out in other markets.
WPP is a talent business and we are fortunate to have so The views from these forums will be shared much of it within our Company.
with Sally Susman and Daniela Riccardi, who are responsible on behalf of the Board for engagement with our people.
GENDER DIVERSITY The commitment to create diverse and inclusive workplaces applies throughout Roberto Quarta WPP including at the level of the Board.
Chairman Cindys appointment raises the proportion of 10 April 2019 women on the Board to 33%.
We are pleased to have made progress but clearly we still have work to do to reach gender parity in terms of Board-level representation.
This mirrors the position in WPP as a whole and, indeed, the wider sector.
