Financials and other information Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements Our assessment of risk of material misstatement In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements the financial We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as statements of 3i Infrastructure plc the Company and its those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the subsidiary together the Group : allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial asat31 March 2016 and its profit for the year then ended: statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any have been properly prepared in accordance with International opinion on these individual areas.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements oftheCompanies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016, which comprise the: Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2016: Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2016: Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2016: and Related notes 1 to 19 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Valuation of the investment portfolio Incomplete or inaccurate investment income recognition Calculation of performance fees Prior Year: Calculation ofadvisory and performance fees Audit scope We performed an audit of the financial statements of 3iInfrastructure plc, and its subsidiary, 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited together the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016 Materiality Materiality of 12.8m which represents 1% of net assets 2015: 13.2m, 1% of net assets.
What has changed Since there was no change in the Investment Advisory Agreement in the current year, we have reassessed the associated risk of material misstatement in the calculation of advisory fees and have not considered it to be a risk of material misstatement.
68 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Financials and other information Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit and Risk Committee Valuation of the investment portfolio 2016: With the assistance of our infrastructure We confirmed that there were no material matters arising from our audit work on the 1,228.8m, 2015: 1,231.5m as described on valuation specialists, we performed the following pages 65-66 in the Report of the Audit and Risk procedures for a sample of assets in the valuation techniques, cash flow forecasts and investment portfolio: other key valuation drivers that we wished Committee.
to bring to the attention of the Audit and Risk Assessed that the valuation techniques The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio Committee.
is a key driver of the Groups investment return adopted by management to value the assets within the investment portfolio, and We confirmed that valuation methodologies and represents a material proportion of the Groups net assets.
The movements in the conclusions reached, were consistent with adopted were appropriate in relation to IFRS as adopted by the EU and International IPEV guidelines and that the valuation of the investment portfolio are shown in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation investment portfolio was not materially misstated Guidelines IPEV guidelines : and was in line with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Inappropriate assumptions made in determining Compared the actual cash flows in the current the fair value of the investment portfolio could have a significant impact on the net asset value year to prior year assumptions in order to assess the accuracy of managements and the return generated for shareholders.
forecasting process: Compared the key valuation drivers applied in the valuation models against current market and comparable transaction data in order to assess the appropriateness of these drivers: and Obtained and read the latest independent review opinion from the investment adviser in respect of the integrity of the cash flow models of each investment in our sample, where applicable.
Incomplete or inaccurate investment income We performed the following procedures: We confirmed that there were no matters recognition 2016: 58.9m, 2015: 58.1m as identified during our audit work on income Obtained a breakdown by each investee described on pages 65-66 in the Report of the recognition that we wished to bring to the company of investment income recognised Audit and Risk Committee.
attention of the Audit and Risk Committee.
by the Group and, on a sample basis, agreed Investment income in the form of dividend dividends to board minutes from the investee and interest entitlements due from underlying companies and recalculated interest income investee companies is a key driver of the amount based on the underlying agreements.
available for distribution to shareholders by way Agreed a sample of investment income of dividend.
If the Group is not entitled to receive the Performed cut off procedures by checking investment income recognised in the financial that a sample of investment income receipts statements, or the investment income recognised around the year end date were recognised in is inaccurate or does not relate to the current the correct financial year.
financial year, this could have a material impact on the ability of the Group to meet its stated dividend growth targets.
Calculation of performance fees 2016: 19.5m, We performed the following procedures: We confirmed that there were no matters 2015: 45.0m as described on pages 65-66 in identified during our audit work on the calculation Performed a recalculation of the performance the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee.
of performance fees that we wished to bring to fees incurred by the Group in the year using the attention of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The performance fees incurred by the Group are the calculation methodology described in a material component of the Groups cost base the signed Investment Advisory Agreement and, therefore, impact the Groups total return.
between the Company and the Adviser.
The performance fee is disclosed in Note 2 to the Agreed the inputs used in the calculation financial statements.
of the performance fee to the Groups As described in Note 18, the calculation financial records and audited valuation methodology for the performance fee is complex oftheinvestment portfolio.
and requires a number of subjective inputs from the Groups own financial records.
If the performance fee is not correctly calculated this could have a material impact on both thecosts incurred and overall performance of theGroup.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 69 Financials and other information Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc Continued The scope of our audit Scope of the audit of the financial statements Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to changes in the business environment when assessing the level of the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company and its adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting wholly owned subsidiary, 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited.
estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Our application of materiality non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in and in forming our audit opinion.
the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Materiality theimplications for our report.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent Responsibilities set out on pages 5758, the Directors are of our audit procedures.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 12.8m being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility which is 1% of net assets 2015: 13.2m, 1% of net assets.
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent accordance with applicable law and International Standards on of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing withthe Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and extent of further audit procedures.
We derived our materiality calculation as a proportion of net assets as we consider that to be This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. the performance of the Group.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Performance materiality them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest The application of materiality at the individual account or balance extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account orbalance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, being 9.6m 2015: 75% of materiality, namely 9.9m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.64m 2015: 0.70m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
70 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Financials and other information Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions to report.
information in the Annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, ourknowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Jersey Law 1991 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
reporting proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for ouraudit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 58 and longer-term viability, set out on page 35: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material We have nothing material to add toadd or to draw attention to in relation to: or to draw your attention to.
the directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
David Robert John Moore, ACA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Jersey, Channel Islands 11 May 2016 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 71
