Strategic Report: Chief Financial Officers review Chief Financial Officers review If forced to describe the year in one word, for me it would be Growth Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer Its tempting to focus almost entirely on Our international operations in insurance and Ogden in writing a review of 2016s results, comparison continued to make meaningful but whilst it deserves attention and its and pleasing progress against their objectives.
coming, there is more to talk about.
Its inevitably hard to pick highlights, but Given Ogden, the Groups share of pre-tax some of mine would be: 720,000 profit reduced materially to 284 million 720,000 the number of new new customers from 377 million last year.
On a statutory customers we welcomed to the basis, the reduction is similar, with Group Group in 12 months.
profit before tax at 278 million compared 1,035,000 customers beyond UK to 369 million in 2015.
Without the Ogden change, the Groups 212% solvency ratio after the Ogden share of pre-tax profit would have been impact and proposed final dividend.
390 million, of which the UK Car Insurance 100% all UK insurance new business business would have contributed 441 1 million now transacted on the new policy million, in line with last year.
Our combined customers beyond system, Guidewire.
international insurance businesses improved UK Insurance their result 19 million loss v 22 million Record profits at Rastreator in Spain and loss whilst the comparison operations another profit for the third successive recorded a profit of 3 million after making financial year from ConTe in Italy.
On a statutory Full detail on the results follows but let basis, the price comparison result is a loss of me cover a couple of things: 3 million compared to a loss of 16 million last year.
Ogden inevitably, capital 212% Notwithstanding the Ogden impact, the and dividend solvency ratio strength of the Groups capital position has Readers will be aware Im sure, but in allowed us to propose a final dividend of 51.5 December 2016 we heard that a new Ogden pence per share, in line with the final 2015 discount rate was imminent the first change dividend before adding the return of surplus since 2001.
The announcement came at capital that was paid a year ago.
the end of February 2017 that the new rate would be minus 0.75% a substantial If forced to describe the year in one word, reduction on the previous rate of 2.5%.
2016 saw very strong advances in turnover a record and We estimate that the ultimate cost net 22% higher than 2015, customer numbers of reinsurance and tax on open claims and another record at 5.2 million and net claims arising on business written to the date revenue up 13% to 1 billion.
Whilst UK of change of a move to minus 0.75% from motor grew healthily, our businesses in other 2.5% will be approximately 150 million.
markets including UK household grew very nicely and continue to represent a bigger share of the Groups KPIs.
18 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The reduction in profit in 2016 means that a In terms of the future impact of higher injury We also currently enjoy free movement of large portion of the impact of the change has costs resulting from the substantially lower staff between our sites in Europe which been recognised already, with the balance discount rate, we expect that pricing action might also be restricted.
Again well work to something in the order of 65 million postincluding our own material pre-emptive rate ensure the impact on our staff is minimised tax to be reflected in the coming years in changes in December 2016 and most likely to the extent possible under whatever the form of lower reserve releases and profit more to follow should mean profitability on arrangements are put in place.
commission than would otherwise have been business written after the date of the change Chairman the case with an unchanged rate.
will not be materially adversely affected.
Finally, at the 2017 AGM we will say Ogden is of course only one variable involved Brexit farewell to Alastair, our Chairman of over in estimating the reserves, and as you would Another 2016 surprise in a year full of them 16 years.
Davids tribute sums up Alastairs expect of Admiral, our booked reserves in the was the result of the EU referendum in June.
contribution eloquently so Ill just say that financial statements continue to include a Ive hugely admired Alastair as a Chairman prudent and significant margin above best Admiral currently has three insurers and and colleague since Ive worked with him.
We estimates, the size of which is largely in line two comparison businesses in continental will miss him greatly.
Were fortunate to have in relative terms with a year earlier.
Europe, all benefitting from passporting an extremely capable successor in Annette arrangements.
Although the UK is very early in whos been on the Board since 2012.
My best The Solvency II balance sheet technical the process of extricating itself from the EU, wishes go to both.
provisions are also now on a minus 0.75% there is clearly a risk we lose access to these Ogden basis.
markets via the passporting mechanism.
After accounting for the proposed final We are planning for potential outcomes and dividend, the Group solvency ratio is a very expect to be able to establish new entities satisfactory 212%.
Excluding amounts and or arrangements which should result Geraint Jones relating to return of surplus capital, full year in minimal disruption to our businesses and Chief Financial Officer dividends for 2016 are held at their 2015 customers in those markets.
7 March 2017 level of 102.5 pence per share.
The solvency ratio is above where we expect to operate in the medium to long term no change on our previously indicated 125%- 150%.
However we consider it prudent to maintain a higher ratio in the near term as we move towards submission of our application to use an internal model to calculate our A great customer experience solvency capital requirement later in the year were still hoping to go live with the model in 2018.
For the foreseeable future, Ben was extremely helpful and covered all the policy options with we envisage dividends will be in the order of me without pushing any covers or excesses that I did not want I told 90-95% of earnings.
him, as I now tell you, that he provided me with the best customer service from a call centre environment that I have ever had... and thats in 46 years!
UK New Business Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
