The story behind the numbers In last years report we told you it was the first time Black Friday really mattered.
This year it mattered even more, and not just from a numbers perspective.
The figures were great: yes, it was an exceptional day for traffic and sales, but the real triumph was happening behind the scenes, and it was incredible to see.
Planning for Black Friday and the sales period that surrounds it starts a good eight months in advance and it touches every single department.
Its a business-wide team effort, and just as John found on his visit to Croydon, its the combined effect of lots of little details coming together to make everything look easy.
Of course, its never easy, but by being driven, bold and smart we deliver: its what we do best.
We had just come back from the UK leg of our results roadshow and arriving in to the office early on Black Friday I could really feel the buzz about the place.
The IT team had worked in shifts testing and monitoring the systems through the night: we had redesigned and implemented a website platform that could scale to handle a significant increase in traffic without requiring a large financial investment to make it happen.
Sometime in the early hours a war room was commissioned to monitor performance and deal with any queries, issues or concerns, with regular comms being sent out regarding stats and system health.
IT, trading, ecommerce and supply chain came together to make any decisions necessary to ensure the day was as successful as it could be.
TVs in the office were full of information, making sure live data on everything was communicated to the relevant teams.
And it wasnt just the website systems that were put through their paces: we recorded the highest number of call centre agents simultaneously logged on at any time, we sent more SMS messages than wed ever sent in a 24-hour period, and we scanned more products in the warehouse operation over Black Friday weekend than wed ever scanned before.
It was an all-time record sales day for AO, and a big step on our journey from appliances to electricals: our bestselling SKU was a soup maker and TVs were our bestselling category.
The passion for the business, the determination to get it right for the customer, thats what made it all happen, along with the 400 coffees served up in Starbucks.
It was a proud and exhilarating moment for us, one of my all-time favourites.
Its a real honour to witness just how exceptional our people are when it matters.
Mark Higgins AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 32 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Financial review Sales from our German website, AO.
fide, and also our Netherlands website AO.
nl which were delivered from 1 March 2016 totalled revenue of 40.7m 2015: 5.9m reflecting the investments in advertising and promotional activity.
AO branded website sales including AO.
nl and AO branded eBay shops now account for 88.1% of total Group revenue 2015: 81.3%.
Sales from third-party websites in the UK reduced to 53.6m 2015: 70.3m as our focus remains on promoting the AO.
Consequently AO branded sales eroded the market share of some of our partners.
As previously announced, the loss of a third-party logistics contract in the latter half of the previous financial year, coupled with the share gains of AO impacted the performance of our UK third-party logistics services which experienced a 6.5% reduction in revenue to 17.8m 2015: 19.0m.
The fall in third-party logistics revenue was offset, to a degree, by a short-term logistics contract in the last quarter of the year.
Mark Higgins Chief Financial Officer AO website sales and, for the UK, Third-party website sales include revenue earned from the sale of physical products and also ancillary services such as delivery, installation, unpack and inspect and recycling, Financial KPIs m 2016 2015 % change together with commission earned from the promotion of Domestic and Group revenue 599.2 476.7 25.7% Generals product protection plans and, in the UK, customer finance.
UK revenue 558.5 470.8 18.6% Revenue from such ancillary service sales in the period was 63.7m: increasing to 10.6% of total sales from 10.2% in the previous year.
This Europe revenue 40.7 5.9 596.9% percentage increase was largely due to a reduction in Free Next Day UK Adjusted EBITDA 17.2 16.5 4.6% Delivery promotions in the UK in the second half of the year compared Europe Adjusted EBITDA losses 21.1 8.0 165.2% to the prior period.
Non-Financial KPIs Gross margin see table 2 Non-Financial KPIs, such as NPS, DTP, Trustpilot scores and awards Gross margin for the Group, which includes product margin, delivery won are covered in the Operational Review on pages 16 to 19 costs, commissions from selling product protection plans and other ancillaries which attract a higher margin as a percentage of revenue Revenue see table 1 than product sales decreased to 17.7% for the reporting period.
This was For the year ended 31 March 2016 total Group revenue increased by a reduction of 0.7ppts against the prior year although gross profit grew 25.7% to 599.2m 2015: 476.7m.
Year-on-year growth in the first by 20.9% to 105.9m.
In the UK gross margin increased to 19.8% 2015: quarter of the year was less than our expectations as previously 19.0%.
A small increase in MDA margin combined with the opening of announced.
Growth improved in the remaining quarters to the level additional outbases masked the dilutive effect of AV product margin, we expected as we moved to more normalised comparisons.
which is likely to have an increased effect going forward as the AV category takes an increasing share of the overall UK business.
In line Revenue growth in the UK during the year was largely attributable with the increase in revenue relative to the prior period, in the UK the to the performance of our AO website which experienced a strong contribution from ancillaries increased slightly with additional next increase of 27.7% to 487.1m 2015: 381.5m.
This was driven by our day delivery charges.
The contribution relative to revenue from other improving brand recognition, the continued migration of consumers ancillaries increased slightly year-on-year reflecting the increase in to the online channel and our commitment to exceptional levels of delivery income described above.
The contribution from product customer service which continues to stimulate repeat business and protection plans and other ancillaries excluding delivery relative attract new customers.
to revenue remained consistent with the previous year.
As a result of this rounding, the totals of data presented in this document may vary slightly from the actual arithmetic totals of such data.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Financial review continued In Europe the gross loss of 4.9m and a margin of -12.1% reflected the UK Other administrative expenses increased by 11.7m to 52.4m early purchasing prices achieved in that operation, which are significantly 2015: 40.7m and as a percentage of sales they increased to 9.4% behind those enjoyed in the UK.
Whilst our European delivery volumes are 2015: 8.6%.
We have invested in strengthening our UK category comparatively small the drop densities of our routes mean that individual teams, both for short-term margin, and longer-term category delivery costs are high, reflecting the start-up nature of the operation.
We have also increased our software development team to serve both the UK and Europe.
As previously explained, the greater Product margin remains a challenge in this market but we are encouraged than usual variance in volumes recorded in the first two quarters by the progress we made in the second half of the year.
During the period of the year caused some cost inefficiencies.
we commenced selling the AO Schutz protection policy, where we again have partnered with Domestic and General to provide a market-leading In our Europe segment our SG&A costs, as a percentage of sales, protection plan which should contribute to margin in the long term.
reflect the start-up nature of the operation.
For the year the costs represented 44.4% of sales 2015: 151.8% and as volumes have Selling, General & Administrative Expenses SG&A increased across the year these have fallen as a percentage of monthly see table 3 sales.
We would expect these costs to be leveraged by growth as Total Group administrative expenses increased over the year by the business increases in scale.
Of this increase, 9.2m was attributable to administrative expenses incurred in connection Adjusted EBITDA see table 4 with our European expansion.
UK administrative expenses for the When reviewing profitability, the Directors use an adjusted measure year to 31 March 2016 increased by 21.7% to 98.4m 2015: 80.9m.
of EBITDA in order to give a meaningful year-on-year comparison.
The UK cost includes 1.1m which was incurred in connection with the set-up of new European territories.
Group Adjusted EBITDA losses were 3.9m 2015: 8.5m EBITDA after allowing for 21.1m of Europe Adjusted EBITDA losses.
The increase in UK advertising and marketing expenditure as a percentage of sales from 4.1% to 4.3% year-on-year reflects the UK Adjusted EBITDA for the 12 months to 31 March 2016 was 17.2m increased investment in the marketing of the AO brand, particularly 2015: 16.5m representing an increase of 4.6% against the prior year via an increased television advertising campaign throughout the year.
This increase resulted from an improvement in sales and gross Going forward we intend to continue to grow and develop the brand margin offset by an increase in administrative expenses.
As explained which in time should reduce our direct marketing costs particularly at the time of our interims, growth during the first quarter of the year traffic acquisition as a percentage of sales.
1 Adjustments is defined by the Group as set-up costs relating to overseas expansion and share-based payment charges attributable to exceptional LTIP awards which the Board considers one-off in nature.
logistics and call centre operations which had been planned for higher The Groups cash outflow from operating activities was 3.5m levels of revenue.
During the second half of the year growth returned 2015: 1.3m inflow.
to the rates we had expected which corresponded to the cost base of the business.
Working capital see table 5 At 31 March 2016, the Group had net current liabilities of 9.5m 31 March Adjustments 2015: net current assets of 17.8m principally as a result of i working Europe set-up costs capital management with the Groups suppliers and ii a reduction in These are costs incurred in connection with our European expansion cash which was used to fund losses in the Europe segment.
strategy prior to the go-live of that territory, namely the launch of AO.
nl and our continuing research into other further As at 31 March 2016 UK inventories were 30.9m 2015: 28.9m countries along with strategic post go-live costs.
reflecting an increase in sales volumes and an increase in our stock-holding to support the AV category which is generally only Exceptional share-based payment charges credits bought in bulk loads.
As a result UK average stock days increased At the time of the IPO, LTIP awards were made to a number of senior to 29 days 2015: 27 days.
The Board considers that the magnitude and timing of these awards are one-off in nature and so add-back any charge credit UK trade and other receivables both non-current and current were in arriving at Adjusted EBITDA.
The reduction in the add-back in the 59.3m as at 31 March 2016 2015: 44.9m reflecting an increase in year to 31 March 2016 reflects the cumulative adjustment to the LTIP accrued income in respect of commissions due on product protection charge based on the assessment of certain performance criteria.
plans as a result of the higher retail volumes.
UK trade and other payables increased to 102.8m 2015: 82.2m reflecting increased trade and Taxation manufacturers continuing to extend credit on the higher volume of sales.
The tax credit for the year was 0.6m 2015: 0.4m.
The effective rate of tax for the year was 9.2% 2015: 12.6%.
Capital expenditure Total capital expenditure for the year was 8.7m 2015: 7.6m, of The Group is subject to taxes in the UK, Germany and the Netherlands.
which the main components were additional out-bases in the UK and Through its registered branch structure in Germany, it is able to fully Germany, vehicle and trailer replacements and initial costs for our offset its German losses against profits in the UK.
Due to the start-up new NDC in Germany.
nature and the losses in Germany and the Netherlands, no overseas taxes were attributable to the period.
Acquisition In November 2015, the Group invested in its existing product Retained loss for the year and loss per share recycling partner, The Recycling Group Ltd TRG, taking a majority Retained loss for the year was 6.1m 2015: 2.5m after taking into equity stake for nominal consideration with options to purchase account the impact of the adjustments noted above, in table 4.
Loss per the remaining 40% based on the performance of the business in the share was 1.44p 2015: 0.60p.
This reflects the investment and losses coming five years.
This investment secures a WEEE waste electrical and incurred in the European segment of the business.
electronic equipment processing facility for the Group.
In the long term this will allow us to benefit from efficiencies in product recycling costs.
Cash resources and cash flow Year-end net funds position was 25.4m 2015: 37.9m, as cash decreased to 33.4m 2015: 44.9m principally reflecting the loss Mark Higgins for the year and capital expenditure in the UK and investment in Chief Financial Officer overseas territories, while total borrowings comprising asset finance 8 June 2016 and equivalent increased to 8.0m from 7.0m in 2015.
Surplus cash balances are held with UK-based banks, in line with the Group The Companys Strategic Report is set out on pages 4 to 39.
Approved by the Board on 8 June 2016 and signed on its behalf by: The Group has recently put in place a revolving credit facility of 30m with Lloyds Bank Plc and Barclays Bank Plc in order to fund UK Julie Finnemore working capital movements in future.
Company Secretary AO World Plc 8 June 2016 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
