Sharing the knowledge for a perfect bake ROBYN MURRAY, HEAD OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, MAURI ANZ T he merger between Weston Milling and AB Mauri in Australia and New Zealand gave us access to industry-leading expertise, tothe benefit of our customers, our business and our people.
We have established strong links with AB Mauris global baking ingredients and yeast technical centres.
This enables us to link into new and emerging technologies and to the latest consumer and customer insights.
By developing local applications of such global knowledge, we have been able to create innovative and bespoke baking solutions for our customers.
This is a key differentiator for us.
Access to the latest technology and learning is also proving exciting and motivating for our employees.
Strategic report operating review 35 Our yeast strain collection, located in from a single site employing a stringent CASE ourYeast Technology Centre in Sydney, sub-culturing and maintenance programme.
STUDY contains a wide range of yeasts with This ensures that end use application different characteristics that determine performance is inseparably linked to the aproducts ability to function in traditional specific yeast strain contained within the bakery applications and in the production product: that the product does not degrade IN THE HANDS ofwine, beer, whisky, animal feed and over time: and that all products carrying biofuels.
Some strains are more appropriate thesame branding are derived from the OF EXPERTS for use in cream products dueto their same parent strain.
veryhigh gas generation ability, some are At the heart of AB Mauris yeast products better for compressed products due to A centralised strain management and isthe yeast strain which accounts for theirintrinsic stability, while others are delivery strategy is critical to minimising between 60% and 80% of the products moresuited for use in dry yeast products therisk of changes in a strains genetic functionality.
The yeast strain can be due to their desiccation tolerance.
Running separate or discrete isolated from nature: acquired from culturing practices would increase the fermentations, product or culture Our culture collection currently contains riskof strain change and genetic variation collections: bred via natural spore inexcess of 1,600 distinct yeast strains across the business.
Supplying an impure cultivation: or generated via recombinant representing a sizeable investment in strain or a contaminated culture would DNA techniques.
The strains can be havea dramatic impact on plant economics used to develop new yeast products or and product performance in the end asasource of genetic material for strain useapplication, with a knock-on impact breeding programmes.
All of AB Mauris onreputation and profitability.
Whilst commercial yeast is derived from starter maintenance of a single strain collection cultures routinely distributed from Sydney inevitably carries with it a site dependency toall of AB Mauris production facilities, risk, this is mitigated by a detailed business typically quarterly.
continuity programme which is regularly tested and is designed to reduce the To ensure finished product integrity and possibility of culture loss or changes purity, the culture collection is managed instrain performance.
The majority of new active pharmaceutical ABITECs core focus on technical CASE ingredients are poorly water soluble.
andknowledge innovation, in combination STUDY However, excipients that are lipid based withan extensive product portfolio, enables offer many advantages including the the organisation to address effectively complete dissolving of the active ingredient, thedemands of a variety of industries enhanced dispersion of the active ingredient andmarket sectors globally.
The business ABITEC FOCUSED in the body, and flexibility that allows the remains at the forefront of these new development of delivery systems specific technologies and continually strives ON FORMULATION tothe characteristics ofindividual toprovide the most effective solutions activeingredients.
ABITEC Corporation is based in the US andis a global leader in the development ABITEC produces cGMP lipid-based and manufacture of high-quality excipients that enhance the bioavailability functionallipids and surfactants for ofactive pharmaceutical ingredients that thepharmaceutical, nutraceutical and areeither poorly soluble in water or have specialty chemical markets.
These lipid excipients itsofferings of world-class technical, arecritical components across a multitude scientific, regulatory, and manufacturing ofdrug formulations and are used in expertise, ABITEC delivers the highest variousdosage forms fororal, transdermal, quality product-based solutions in ophthalmic and topical delivery.
solubilisation, emulsification and lubrication to its customers globally.
ABITECs specialty lipids are also used inawide array of other markets including, As drug development technology sportsnutrition, weight management, dietary advances, so must the complex supplements and overall healthy living, and deliverysystems that enable the body itsspeciality chemicals business serves toabsorb and effectively utilise the theindustrial and chemical markets by activeingredients.
offering afull rangeof non-toxic surfactants, solubilisers, couplers and emollients.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
