16 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW Joe Bauernfreund Joe is Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited.
Joe became British Empires named portfolio manager with effect from 1 October 2015, continuing the natural progression that has seen only three portfolio managers at British Empire in the last 30 years.
Over the financial year, the total net asset value return was 31.0%, which marks one of the best years of performance for your Company our formal benchmark returned 28.0% while the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Index returned 27.0% and the MSCI All Country World Index returned 31.3%.
The largest contributions came from Aker which increased returns by 5.2%, Vietnam Phoenix Fund 1.9%, Symphony International 1.9%, conwert 1.8% and Investor 1.8%.
The only significant detractor was Dolphin Capital, which reduced returns by 0.9%.
The mark to market effect of the debt and Japanese Yen hedge had adverse impacts of 1.2% and 0.5% respectively.
We live in interesting times.
The continued quantitative easing experiment adopted by many Central Banks around the world, along with zero and even negative interest rate policies continues to distort asset prices.
Talk of helicopter money and debt monetisation gathers momentum.
Concerns over the health of the Chinese economy surface at regular intervals.
As far as the stock market is concerned, the European Central Bank appears to have largely Over the financial year the total net asset value papered over the cracks in the Eurozone for now, recent fears over return was 31.0%, which marks one of the the health of Germanys largest bank notwithstanding.
Not least, of best years of performance for your Company.
course, the impacts of the Brexit vote in the UK and the exact form the UKs exit from the EU will take remain hotly debated and controversial topics.
What is unarguable, however, is that the fall in the value of Joe Bauernfreund Sterling following the vote has been a positive for your Company Chief Investment Officer as the translation effect on our overseas assets 98% of NAV was substantially boosted by Sterling weakness.
Weighted average discount NAV 10 YEAR TOTAL RETURN GROWTH PER SHARE Weighted average discount to NAV in portfolio Percentage discount to NAV % 82.0 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% March 06 March 08 March 10 March 12 March 14 March 16 Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
17 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC The current broad macro-economic and monetary policy environment After a year in which your Companys share price has risen by more than 30% and the NAV has increased by a similar amount, it is natural has been in place since the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008 2009.
Wiser heads than ours have debated the implications and to wonder whether there is any scope for further upside from here.
In response to this, I would highlight several facts.
The portfolio weighted repercussions ad nauseum yet the bears, so far, have been proved wrong and missed out on the longest bull market in history.
However, average discount at 30 September 2016 was 32%.
This compares to a level of 28% one year ago.
Despite the strong performance, we need to be conscious that this bull run will end at some stage.
We manage this risk by ensuring that the investments we own are therefore, we have not seen a compression of discounts.
Rather, discount widening was a headwind to our performance for the genuinely good value and likely to generate strong returns over the long term, through a combination of growth in value and events that year.
This leaves us confident about the prospects for further outperformance in the portfolio.
Moreover, a number of the nearnarrow or eliminate discounts.
term events we expect have yet to materialise and the share prices of the companies concerned remain on attractive discounts despite Following my appointment as sole manager of British Empire, the Company saw a shift in the manner in which the portfolio was the prospect of substantial upside.
I would highlight Better Capital, Vietnam Phoenix Fund and AP Alternative all of which are described constructed.
Whilst remaining steadfast to our long-established investment philosophy, following a period of lacklustre returns, I felt it in greater detail in the next section.
was important to ensure the portfolio reflected the conviction and the opportunities the investment team had identified.
As an expression This has also been a year where constructive activism has played a part in delivering performance.
In the case of Aker our largest of that conviction we chose to increase weightings in the select few investments which, after rigorous fundamental analysis, we believed contributor to performance by a long way, the management team carried out a number of transformative and value enhancing corporate had the greatest upside from a combination of NAV growth and discount contraction.
The former would come from the quality or transactions at their portfolio companies that have added substantially to Akers NAV.
At the other end of the spectrum, in the case of mispricing of the businesses we owned, whilst the latter would be determined to a large extent by the events that we foresaw.
Vietnam Phoenix Fund, it was our own activism that has resulted in shareholders being offered the option to exit their shares at NAV.
We We have reduced the number of holdings in the portfolio, boosting continue to engage with many boards and management teams in the pursuit of shareholder value and with the goal of enhancing returns.
The top 20 holdings now make up 90.5% of the portfolio, compared to 69.5% at this time last year, and we took on additional Some of these investments will play out in the coming months, whilst others will take longer.
These examples highlight how our returns gearing for the first time since 1996.
Although, in headline performance, the increase in fair value of this debt has cost us 1.2% of NAV during the are generated from a combination of both strong NAV growth and discount contraction.
We seek both of these sources of return when year, we believe we will achieve long-term returns substantially above the cost of that debt.
It has already proved beneficial through the returns determining whether to invest in a stock.
made from investing the proceeds of this debt.
We put most of that gearing to work towards the end of January 2016 after the market had In summary, therefore, as I look back over the past 12 months it is gratifying to see how the changes we have implemented have added fallen 21%.
This meant that we were adding substantially to companies in which we had strong conviction, and were doing so at attractive value.
The entire investment team has worked hard researching hundreds of companies and engaging with management and boards.
We have continuously utilised the gearing since that time.
The Yen hedge cost us, when looked at in isolation, 0.5% of NAV, but only a The portfolio companies have driven strong NAV growth and, on top of this, we have benefited from several events that have closed the part of our Japanese exposure was hedged, and the currency gain from the investments since the time the hedge was closed, far outweighed gap between share prices and market value.
There is still much value in this portfolio and much to look forward to from further discount the cost of the hedge.
contraction and attractive NAV returns.
The most encouraging aspect of this past years performance has been that the contributors to return have been an eclectic mix of stocks our top five contributors being a Norwegian oil focused holding company, a Vietnamese closed-end fund, an Asian consumer-focused closed-end fund, a German real estate company and a Swedish holding company.
It was pleasing that almost half of the years return came from the strong NAV growth of the companies we own and the events that have occurred, or will occur, in the coming months, rather than from currency effects.
A full description of these follows in the next section of this report.
MSCI All Country World ex-US, Sterling adjusted total return.
