PERFORMANCE REVIEW Our performance in detail N Brown Group plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2016 Strategic report JD Williams goes from strength to strength, with our stylish product offer, digital marketing skills and life begins at 50 mantra really resonating with customers.
4.7% Product revenue increase, to 151.2m New customers up 5% Overall online penetration 51%, up 6ppts year on year Online penetration of new customers now at 65%, up an impressive 13ppts year on year Online market share up from 1.0% to 1.6%, as measured by Hitwise VIP scheme, offered to our most loyal JD Williams customers, performing well Simply Be We continue to improve our digital Williams & Brown, the menswear offer marketing expertise and social is an empowering online within JD Williams, relaunched for SS16 engagement, championing size fashion brand, bringing stylish and performing strongly inclusivity and body confidence.
products to all regardless of We also continue to improve our size.
The brand is gaining The JD Williams brand continues to products, delivering newness to significant momentum both perform well, as the improvements we are customers every week and extending at home and in the USA.
making to our products, our PR activity our ranges with Coast exclusively in and our digital marketing campaigns larger sizes and Sprinkle of Glitter in continue to yield strong results.
SS16 after a great customer reaction 15.6% in AW15.
This season we significantly extended Product revenue increase, to 103.9m the menswear range within JD Williams, Our digital marketing capabilities which is called Williams & Brown, and increasing personalisation, offering performance has exceeded expectations.
Overall online penetration stands at 89% exciting offers to our customers, and ensuring our site looks inspirational For new customers, online penetration Our JD Williams VIP scheme, first continue to drive conversion and excluding stores is now 97% launched in May 2015 and offered to frequency of spend.
In the coming Constant improvement in social engagement our most loyal JD Williams customers, year we are planning to launch a and digital campaigns continues to drive encouraging results loyalty app to further drive retention.
in both frequency of spend and New ranges launched including Sprinkle of customer retention.
Glitter, Simply Be Unique, Coast at Simply Be We are excited about the global growth and Jameela Jamil opportunity that Simply Be represents.
In February, on the eve of London Fashion Week, we hosted a JD Williams fashion show dedicated to females over 50 in partnership with the London College of Fashion.
This was livestreamed onto JDWilliams.
co. uk and received significant press coverage, further building brand awareness.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Jacamo continues to grow strongly, with customers loving its digital offer and collections available in a market-leading range of sizes, from Small to 5XL.
14.6% Product revenue increase, to 62.8m Overall online penetration now at 90% Excluding stores, 97% of new customer orders now come online Refreshed the brand look and feel during the past year Driving on Dave sponsorship Improved the fit of our smaller sizes We have made significant product Overall revenue of this Group was up We believe that we could serve these improvements during the quarter, 1.9% year on year to 152.7m, with customers better, and have therefore focused particularly on broadening the Fashion World performing particularly taken a number of actions to improve brand appeal, the styling of the product well within this.
These actions include range and the fit of our smaller sizes, establishing a dedicated marketing team, which has resulted in strong sales and All four of these brands are digital-first changing our approach to promotions an encouraging reduction in the returns in their approach.
Our central approach and giving a renewed focus on rate of these sizes.
also means that running them is ensuring our product offering inspires highly efficient.
The low During the second half of the year we online penetration of this segment means refreshed the look and feel of the brand, that it is likely to take until the Autumn Traditional Segment improving cut-through.
In December season before performance is improved, revenue was down 5.5% year Jacamo became the official sponsors although we are confident that the on year, and we are taking of the Driving shows on Dave TV, which actions we are taking will yield results.
has a real resonance with our customers.
decisive actions to improve International performance.
Jacamo has also teamed up with continues to deliver Paralympian Jonnie Peacock for our impressive results.
This new SS16 campaign, championing inclusivity and promoting body diversity 5.5% year our USA business and confidence.
Product revenue decrease, to 136.0m grew revenue by 29%, and delivered a profit Whilst not a future growth driver, the for the first time in H2.
Secondary Brands Traditional Segment remains relevant to the Groups overall portfolio.
We have delivered a pleasing We are pleased with our performance loyal customers who we know well, and performance during the year.
in the USA, with revenue of 14.3m, up long-established internal skillsets and 29% year on year and 20% in constant capabilities in serving these customers.
We reduced the It is an attractive and accessible market, operating loss significantly, from 1.9% underserved by other retailers, and 2.5m last year to 1.0m this year.
we generate a good financial return.
Product revenue increase, to 152.7m In addition, our central approach to In H2 we made a profit for the first Whilst we see greater near-term growth running our portfolio of brands means time on a constant currency basis, opportunities in our Power Brands, our that operating these traditional titles of $0.2m compared to a loss of $0.9m Secondary Brands the main brands here is highly efficient for us.
This marks an important being Figleaves, High and Mighty, Fashion milestone for our USA operations.
The World and Marisota are all strong, with Our Traditional titles have seen a significant improvement year on year specific customer niche focuses, and all disappointing revenue performance was driven by a combination of factors, have attractive growth potential.
N Brown Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report including the loyalty of our customer base, continued marketing efficiency, an improvement in promotional efficiency and a small change to our delivery offering.
In March 2016 we launched the JD Williams brand in the USA and, whilst early days, the initial performance has been very encouraging.
Our new international web platform goes live in the USA in August.
This will give us much improved personalisation tools and a more agile site from an operations perspective.
Until this platform is live we will remain in cautious expansion mode in the USA, with a focus on further improving customer loyalty, building brand awareness and increasing profitability.
Financial Services the first half, however, primarily as a result of tightened fraud rules.
We performed well during FY16 continue to believe that the primary Ireland and offers our customers a driver of an increase in new credit Our Ireland business delivered a good way of spreading the cost customers is our improved product performance in FY16, with revenue proposition.
of their purchases over time.
growth of 4% in constant currency terms.
We have a well-established Over Christmas we ran a small trial on and loyal customer file in Ireland, a few of our brands offering 0% interest and, encouragingly, the revenue 2.1% to new customers.
The initial results of growth in FY16 was also driven by Revenue increase, to 259.6m this trial are positive, although we need new customers, who are responding to assess the behaviour of customers well to our improved product offering.
Financial Services revenue was up 2.1% who took up the offer over the course In sterling terms Ireland revenues were to 259.6m.
This includes the 19.0m of the current season before we will be 13.4m in FY16, down 7% year on year.
increase to revenue as a result of the able to fully judge the result.
IAS 39 restatement FY15: 19.2m : Stores more detail on the restatement is Our new Financial Services Director remain an important enabler within the Financial Review.
Steve Johnson joined in February and is already making a significant for our business, driving both Our aim is to grow two key customer contribution in improving and online sales in their catchment bases customers who utilise their modernising our operations.
We are areas and brand awareness.
account internally termed our rollers assessing our approach to data capture and cash customers, who pay immediately and processes, and believe there are Stores remain a small part of our overall on a credit or debit card.
Currently half of changes we could make to not only Group, although we see them as an new customers opt to open a credit improve our efficiency, but also the important enabler of our overall growth account, and half are cash customers.
Sales from our store estate were Whilst less profitable, cash customers up 18% to 27.0m.
The operating loss generate attractive returns, and are The Credit release of Fit 4 the Future was 1.0m versus 0.8m last year.
There important in terms of driving our growth, goes live from Autumn 2016, with the remains more to do in terms of improving broadening our appeal and enabling us to main brands moving onto the new the efficiency of our store estate.
Once our new credit platform in early calendar 2017.
Financial Services offering is live we will The new platform will allow us to We have 14 dual-fascia Simply Be and aim to convert some of our new and charge variable APRs for the first time, Jacamo stores.
Our long-term strategy existing cash customers to account as well as offer promotional interest here is unchanged we plan to ultimately customers: this is not currently a focus free periods and other new credit have 25 stores in total, covering 85% given our relatively inflexible offering.
This will broaden our appeal of the population.
We continue to see and further enable future growth.
a positive halo effect from our store At the first half results we reported portfolio and they are also important in an increase in new credit customer In common with the wider industry, we terms of serving customers and building recruits who roll a balance, the first such are now regulated by the FCA, having brand awareness.
We are pleased historically been regulated by the OFT.
to report that this trend has continued, Our FCA application is progressing in up 2% in the second half.
This is a line with expectations.
slowdown on the figure reported in N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35
