24 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts GROUP FINANCE DIRECTORS OVERVIEW We continue to progress the key initiatives instigated in the year to drive down our costs, work more smoothly and enhance our financial reporting.
Nick Greatorex, Group Finance Director Introduction 2016 was a challenging year in which we faced a number of headwinds driven by a slow-down in customer decisions, a reduction of activity in our transactional businesses and challenges on a number of specic contracts.
The major items contributing to our 2016 profit downturn are detailed within the following summary of financial performance.
I would also like to direct you to the disclosure of Alternative Performance Measures APMs that gives more detail on the criteria that the Board believes give a balanced view of and relevant information on the Groups financial performance, position and cash ows.
In addition, these measures provide useful information which is not otherwise readily available from the financial statements.
These are disclosed on page 32.
Further disclosure of the Groups reporting of underlying and non-underlying presentation is included in note 2 to the financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies page 110.
CAPITAS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT DISCIPLINE DELIVERING INPUTS STRONG FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE SHAREHOLDER RETURNS ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH DISCIPLINED APPROPRIATE ACQUISITION REVENUE APPROACH LEVERAGE GROWTH TO M&A LEVEL STRONG OPERATING MARGINS GROWTH OPERATIONAL LEVERAGE CAPITA DIVIDEND HIGH FREE CASH FLOW FCF CONVERSION TIGHT FOCUSED WORKING RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED CAPEX CAPITAL ROCE WELL ABOVE COST SPEND MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL 25 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts GROUP FINANCE DIRECTORS OVERVIEW CONTINUED Accrued income write-downs: letting potential.
Such an investment Summary of financial Alongside the normal processes approach can generate substantial performance undertaken by the Group throughout benets that can be realised up-front Revenue the year and following the impact of or over time.
Examples of up-front value In 2016, the Group increased reported the challenging trading conditions being creation include entering into revenue by 1.5% to 4,909m experienced subsequent to the first transactions when current market values 2015: 4,837m.
Underlying revenue on half of the year, Capita undertook a offer opportunities to generate a continuing basis, including a business comprehensive review across its major immediate shareholder returns.
During which was previously held for sale in contracts and their attendant balance the year the Group acquired with a view 2015, increased by 3.4% including 0.1% sheet positions adopting a more to resale and then subsequently organic growth and 3.3% from conservative view.
completed a sale and lease back acquisitions.
Major contracts growth was transaction resulting in a profit of 28m 4.8%, including the full benefit from F ollowing this review, management has 2015: 11m recorded in the year.
There Primary Care Support England and the taken the decision to impair, at is judgement over the categorisation of continued expansion of Department for 31 December 2016, a number of historic such transactions as operating or finance Work and Pensions PIP assessments.
accrued income assets relating to a few leases.
Consistent with previous Attrition was 3.4%, including the specic contracts, which were being transactions of this nature, the Groups planned completion of transformation amortised over their contract life.
These view is that the resulting risks and work on Telefnica UK O2.
impairments will have no adverse rewards of ownership over the asset have Divisional trading was mixed, with a impact on cash or future trading.
This passed at the point of sale and as such steady performance in the Digital and historic accrued income of 39.6m has has recognised the profit in the year, and Software Solutions division outweighed been written down as a charge to as part of underlying earnings.
by organic declines in our specialist underlying results.
recruitment, property and technology Other underlying: The Group T he Board considers that this review and enterprise solutions businesses.
recognised a number of other gains and ensures that the balance sheet at Looking forward, currently we have losses in the ordinary course of business 31 December 2016 reects a balanced booked 2.9% growth from major which taken in aggregate are view of the ongoing contract portfolio.
contracts and expect 4.4% attrition in immaterial, included within these was a In reaching its view the Board 2017.
Whilst we have no major contract 17.0m profit resulting from the acknowledges that the assumptions renewals until 2019, one of our major life termination of a contract in-year.
and judgements required to ascertain and pensions clients is conducting a recoverable amounts of contract The Board concluded that the above strategic review, the outcome of which related accrued income assets, items are appropriately recorded within is uncertain but could result in the including the consideration of onerous underlying results as they occur in the termination of the contract with any contracts, can lead to a broad range of ordinary course of the Groups operating associated costs.
possible outcomes and is satisfied that activities.
In prior years the Group has in reaching a more balanced view, incurred contract accrued income Operating profit based on circumstances at the balance impairments and recorded income Reported operating profit for the year sheet date, does not indicate prior year related to property commercialisation declined by 28% to 148.3m re-statements are necessary.
It transactions but, unlike this year, none 2015: 206.6m and underlying specically considered this point and have been material to warrant operating profit fell by 15% to 541.3m concluded that it was appropriate to separate disclosure.
This underlying recognise all of the adjustments in 2016.
Consistent with previous years, the operating profit performance was driven Property commercialisation: These underlying operating profit is before largely by the step down in O2 and weak transactions, executed in the ordinary charging a number of specic nontrading in technology and enterprise course of business, have delivered underlying items.
A description of these solutions, property and Capita Europe.
Part of items is given below: It was additionally impacted by a number the Groups strategy is to create and of items which are separately identied The Co-operative Bank contract: As deliver maximum value from assets here, given their quantum in-year: previously disclosed in trading updates that are either owned by its clients given during the year, the Group Transport for London: As announced or are acquired by Capita as part of a reached a position with the execution during the year, the Group encountered wider transaction.
By combining the of its contract with The Co-operative delays on the implementation of the Groups capabilities with the expertise Bank plc where it believes it had been new IT system on the Transport for and assets of any organisation, we can placed in an untenable position by the London TfL congestion charge signicantly increase the value that can bank.
The Group and the bank reached contract.
The system is now live, be generated from often under-utilised a resolution of their contractual operational, and performing assets.
Our strategy often involves the differences in February 2017.
The Group operationally in line with TfLs commercialisation of property assets, will continue to provide mortgage requirements.
As a result of the delays, where the Group will invest in real administration services and new costs of circa 25m, including penalties estate improvements to maximise the mortgage application processing for for delays, were incurred in-year and future capital value or commercial the bank and its clients.
Work on the IT recorded within underlying cost of sales.
1 Refer to Alternative Performance Measures on pages 3233.
26 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts GROUP FINANCE DIRECTORS OVERVIEW CONTINUED The amended contract will run until Other items separately recorded: Fair value movements on financial December 2020 with an option to instruments: that do not meet the The Group continues to separate the extend.
The impact on the financial criteria for hedge accounting 7.6m following operating costs, consistent statements is a non-underlying charge 2015: 14.7m : certain of the Groups with prior years, to allow a better of 18.4m representing the write off of financial instruments do not qualify for understanding of the business accrued income relating to the hedge accounting and accounting performance in-year: transformation programme of 7.5m to standards require these to be marked to cost of sales: and software licence costs Business exits: These amounted to a market at each reporting date with any of 4.2m, other costs of 5.8m and a 2.9m gain 2015: 164.4m loss : the movements recorded in the income provision for legal costs of 0.9m to Group has exited a number of non-core statement.
Such charges or credits are administrative expenses.
and low growth businesses, and linked dependent on external market factors with certain disposals there has been an and are not related to the underlying Restructuring costs: The Group impairment of the associated acquired performance of the Group.
For that continually assesses the resourcing goodwill and other assets.
These charges reason the amounts are reported as levels, both at a divisional level and also are specic to the disposed entities and specic non-underlying items and in relation to the management and are therefore excluded from the therefore are not considered by the delivery of individual contracts.
underlying results of the continuing Board in assessing the performance of This results in restructuring actions in operations to allow a year-on-year the Group.
the ordinary course of business and any comparison of the Groups performance.
such charges are recorded within the Asset Services settlement underlying results.
In 2016 the Board Impairment and amortisation of provisions: of 13.4m 2015: 17.2m announced a major programme, with intangible assets including are separately identied due to the the restructuring of the Group into six goodwill : These amounted to signicance and the historic nature of new reporting divisions under a 233.5m 2015: 193.3m.
The Group the claims to which they relate.
The charge of remains acquisitive and carries on the The Board concluded that it is 59.4m in relation to this Group-wide balance sheet significant balances appropriate to disclose the above items programme has been recorded as a related to acquired intangible assets.
as specic non-underlying items as these specic non-underlying item as, in the The amortisation of these assets, and charges are not reective of the in-year view of the Board, it is above the any impairment charges, are reported performance of the Groups operational normal level of restructuring incurred separately due to the size of the annual activities.
charges and because the performance of the acquired businesses is assessed Non-current asset write-downs: As Financing through the underlying operational noted above, as part of its year-end Underlying interest cost for the year, results which for internal purposes close process Capita has undertaken a excluding the fair value movement on excludes any amounts associated comprehensive review across its major mark-to-market xed rate swaps, is with the acquired intangible assets.
The increased During the year impairment charges within property, plant and equipment interest cost is due to the level of net debt have been recorded in relation to and software development.
Following the Group carries as well as a step up in businesses within the Commercial this review management has taken the the coupon rates charged on the xed Services, IT Services, Insurance and decision to impair, at 31 December rate swaps that have delivered in-year.
Benets Services, Capita Europe and 2016, a number of historic assets Asset Services divisions 2015: in Interest cover stands at 8.8x for the year relating to a few specic contracts, respect of the Insurance Services 2015: 13.2x.
This reduction is a result of which were being amortised over their business of 66.6m.
The judgements the increased interest cost and the contract life.
These impairments will and estimates related to these balances decline in underlying operating profits in have no adverse impact on cash or are set out in note 15. the year.
Non-current assets amounting to 58.3m have been Acquisition related costs: of 9.0m Net debt at 31 December 2016 stands at written off as a non-underlying charge 2015: 16.2m : IFRS requires certain 1.8bn 2015: 1.8bn.
The level of net consistent with prior year treatment, costs incurred in connection with debt coupled with the reduced as in the view of the Board it does not acquired businesses to be recorded profitability in the year has led to our reect the contract performance in-year.
within the Group income statement.
debt covenant ratio adjusted net debt to These charges are not included in the adjusted EBITDA to increase to 2.89x internal assessment of business 2015: 2.45x, which is outside of our performance which as above is based target range of 2.0x to 2.5x.
However, we on the underlying operational results.
have already taken action to address this These charges are therefore separately through the anticipated sale of the disclosed as specic items.
majority of our Asset Services division, which is expected to complete by year end 2017.
It is anticipated that acquisition activity will be muted in 2017 as we attend to the fide-leveraging of the balance sheet.
27 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts GROUP FINANCE DIRECTORS OVERVIEW CONTINUED At each reporting date the calculation of I have continued to lead initiatives to The improvement of the Groups the Groups debt covenants is assessed, further improve the Groups control over financial reporting systems continues both for that period and subsequent expenditure, both capital and with a comprehensive list of projects ones.
These covenants are calculated operational, and ensure that as a Group identied and in train to improve and based on the underlying performance we are making the best buying decisions, strengthen the existing apparatus to of the Group in that they exclude whether that be for longer-term ensure a robust finance infrastructure for exceptional items.
The Group has been investment or shorter-term through the Group over the medium term with consistent with previous years in its improved pricing with suppliers.
We have further programmes to be put in place treatment of these items.
successfully driven down capital for the longer term.
expenditure to 154m in-year The Group generated underlying 2015: 204m through stricter and more Taxation operating cash of 750m 2015: 687m, transparent rules on investment and Capita has an open and positive working with an underlying cash conversion ratio through gating projects to ensure that relationship with HMRC and has a of 139% 2015: 108% which underlines the project is progressing in line with designated customer relationship the importance we place on cash within expectations.
This process has been used manager, and is committed to prompt the business and how we embed this at more widely to also encompass large disclosure and transparency in all all levels of the organisation.
With customer programme deliveries such as dealings with HMRC.
The Group does actions taken on work in progress in-year scale transformation projects.
not have a complex tax structure, nor and the continued emphasis on driving Operationally, the Groups procurement does it pursue any aggressive tax the divisions to own working capital expertise has been centralised and given avoidance activities and in recognition of requirements, we expect this ratio to a wider ranging brief to nd value, this and the aforementioned relationship remain at, or around, 100% for the working with the divisions, through it enjoys a low risk rating from HMRC foreseeable future.
consolidated buying power and through recognising our strong corporate better supplier interactions and governance, control processes and Dividends relationships.
attitude to compliance and tax planning.
Despite the performance of the business Due to client requirements and also due in the year we have decided to maintain Additionally, the Groups property to the location of some of our businesses, the total dividend for the year.
business has been engaged to identify the Group does have operations in a Therefore the total dividend will be held opportunities in the organisations number of countries outside of the UK.
at the 2015 value of 31.7p per share, property footprint to drive best value All Capita operations in non-UK meaning that the final dividend of 20.6p through rationalisation of sites both jurisdictions are trading operations and per share compares with a 2015 final regionally and in metro centres and account for the appropriate local taxes dividend of 21.2p per share, a reduction through the better allocation of property for these activities.
of 3% having paid a half year dividend in space to need.
These initiatives are all 2016 of 11.1p per share, an increase of 6% expected to yield significant savings over In total Capita contributed 273.0m on the 2015 interim dividend of 10.5p.
the medium to longer term.
2015: 305.6m in taxes across its UK operations in the year.
This consisted Capita expects to maintain the dividend During the year we have reviewed the of 48.6m 2015: 82.6m in UK in 2017, rebuild dividend cover in the risk framework of the Group to create a corporation tax: 23.9m 2015: 25.1m medium term and return to steady robust top down approach that ensures in irrecoverable VAT payments: 163.7m dividend growth more reective of the that the major risks faced by the Group 2015: 165.2m in employer NIC: and organic growth in the business rather are thoroughly disclosed and considered 36.8m 2015: 40.7m in other levies than that exhibited by earnings per share at Board level.
This ensures that if the including business rates, import duties of the Company thereafter.
The Board level of risk exceeds the Groups risk and environmental taxes.
Additionally believes this is a more sustainable model appetite that this is identied early and the Group collected and remitted to the for the longer term whilst continuing to that appropriate action is taken.
UK Government 463.6m 2015: 487.3m provide good returns to its shareholders.
The Divisional Boards also employ this of VAT and 399.1m 2015: 405.3m approach to ensure the same level of of employee PAYE and NIC.
Initiatives awareness of risk within the divisional We continue to progress the key businesses.
initiatives I instigated in the year to drive The internal audit function has been down our costs, work more smoothly reviewed, centralised and a co-sourcing and enhance our financial reporting.
arrangement put in place, principally The initiatives focus on: improving the with PwC LLP, that will ensure an involvement of procurement across the enhanced level of focus and breadth of Group to drive optimal purchasing coverage across the Group providing the decisions: engaging the Groups property Board with reasonable surety over expertise to address rationalisation and compliance with Group policies and the effectiveness of the Groups property procedures and also wider governance.
portfolio: and improving the Groups financial reporting systems.
