PERFORMANCE REVIEW INTRODUCTION clearly demonstrated our ability to produce Our pellets provide electric utilities with quality pellets at nameplate capacity.
a renewable, low-carbon alternative fuel Our Baton Rouge transit port facility also source one that can be safely and efficiently achieved a major milestone in December, delivered through our global supply chain.
Our when we successfully dispatched our first manufacturing operations also promote forest Panamax class vessel the MV Jawor.
With health by incentivising local landowners to a cargo of 61,461 tonnes, the MV Jawor actively manage and reinvest in their forests.
is the largest-ever shipment of pellets.
MARKET CONTEXT Drax Biomass produced a total of 606,787 2016 was a challenging year for the wood tonnes of pellets in 2016, representing just pellet industry.
Global manufacturing over 67% of nameplate capacity.
We managed capacity outpaced demand due to our production during the year to allow Pete Madden Drax Power to purchase pellets in the spot policy uncertainties, project delays and President and Chief Executive market at distressed prices.
This was a clear unseasonably warm winters in high-demand Drax Biomass example of one of the benefits of self supply.
This supply demand imbalance placed downward pressure on pellet Drax Biomass helps Drax FINANCIAL RESULTS prices, disproportionately impacting those Drax Biomass 2016 financial results suppliers without long-term contracted Group to deliver a better were driven by the volume of pellets demand.
Depressed spot market pricing future by changing the sold to Drax Power Station under our caused some pellet projects to be delayed commercial agreement.
Sales of pellets or cancelled, which will help correct the way energy is generated.
in the year ending 31 December 2016 supply demand imbalance in the near-term.
We manufacture and totalled $99.6 million, an increase of nearly 130% over 2015 sales revenue.
Drax Biomass remained in a strong position supply high-quality wood through 2016 as a result of intra-Group Cost of sales also increased in 2016 sales to Drax Power under an arms-length pellets sourced from commensurate with our higher production commercial agreement.
We also sought sustainably managed volumes.
Raw fibre procurement comprised to improve our cost profile through productivity gains, carefully managed raw the largest share of these costs, and this working forests across fibre costs and increased asset utilisation.
continues to be an important area of the US South.
We successfully OPERATIONAL REVIEW controlled these costs through a Drax Biomass achieved several important combination of measures, including operational milestones in 2016.
Our Amite improved forecasting of utilisation and BioEnergy and Morehouse BioEnergy increased purchases of more cost-effective facilities saw significant production gains feedstocks such as sawmill residuals.
over 2015, with each achieving both daily and monthly record production levels several The EBITDA loss for the year reduced to times over the course of the year.
DRAX BIOMASS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 m m Revenue 73.6 28.4 Cost of sales 55.5 27.4 Gross profit 18.1 1.0 Operating costs 24.4 15.8 EBITDA 6.3 14.8 28 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR MORE SUSTAINABILITY STORIES VISIT DRAX.
COM SUSTAINABILITY HOW TO MAKE A COMPRESSED WOODPELLET Low-grade roundwood is delivered to the woodyard Roundwood is processed through a drum debarker and the barkis diverted for fuel use Debarked wood is chipped and stored on a woodchip pile Chips are recovered and screened for quality Screened chips are processed through a drum dryer to reduce moisture content Dried chips are pulverised into fibre in hammermills Fibre is extruded under pressure through metal dies to form compressed pellets Pellets are cooled before loading into railcars or trailers KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LOOKING AHEAD CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY Drax Biomass is optimistic about the future, In August 2016, our Morehouse BioEnergy and we are positioned for significant growth and Amite BioEnergy facilities achieved in 2017.
We intend to execute several capital certification under the Sustainable Biomass projects to increase our production capacity Program SBP the leading standard for 607,000 at both manufacturing facilities.
Inline sustainable production of woody biomass with our strategy, we are also pursuing fuels.
Drax Biomass is one of only a small Tonnes of pellets produced the acquisition of several third-party handful of US pellet manufacturers to obtain facilities to increase our asset portfolio and this certification to date.
These measures will coupled with our continued certification enable Drax Biomass to increase our share under a variety of forest sustainability of Drax Power Stations pellet demand and schemes, will help differentiate Drax Biomass 558,000 successfully compete for supply contracts from other pellet manufacturers as we pursue in new biomass markets.
Finally, we will new supply agreements in new markets.
Tonnes shipped also generate additional revenue through contractual agreements which allow thirdparty suppliers to utilise available capacity at our Baton Rouge transit facility.
Risks and mitigations Weather-related damage to facilities We carry business interruption insurance to protect against significant losses Fire explosion hazard from combustible We employ advanced fire detection and pellet dust suppression systems at both manufacturing sites and port facility Disruption in fibre supply from We enter into long-term contracts with increasedcompetition oursuppliers where possible, and we are implementing a portfolio-based approach toour fibre procurement strategy Regulatory and political change We actively engage with regulators and legislators at the state and federal levels to influence policy that impacts our markets 29 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED MARKET CONTEXT capacity squeeze in the UK market, and Drax Power Station is the largest power day-ahead baseload power prices saw station in the UK almost twice the size of several periods of significant volatility, the next largest and continues to meet trading for prices in excess of 150 per some 7% of the UKs electricity needs.
In2016, the The key factors influencing our business average price was 48 per MWh sold.
arethe regulatory framework, commodity markets, network generating capacity, Our flexibility and ability to respond to the andour operational performance.
demands of the network in these periods has helped to deliver significant value in 2016.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 2016 represents the first full year of Going forward, CfD approval will help to operations following the removal of the reduce our exposure to fluctuations in Andy Koss commodity markets.
In addition, provision Climate Change Levy CCL exemption Chief Executive of ancillary services and capacity market for renewable electricity generation Drax Power income expected to commence from on 1 August 2015.
The impact of this 1 October 2017 help to provide a more change was a reduction in 2016 Contract for Difference robust and diversified earnings base.
EBITDA inthe region of 34 million.
CfD clearance completes OPERATIONAL REVIEW EU approval of the CfD investment contract the biomass transformation The business has delivered strong for our third biomass conversion signed in April 2014 took longer than expected operational and commercial performance programme to convert during 2016.
Our original expectation was in the face of significant challenges.
threeof our six generating for approval in early autumn, with the final decision actually coming on 19 December.
2016 has seen the largest scope of units and provides the maintenance work the station has ever New emissions limits came into effect on tackled with 4.6 million man hours worked.
foundation for our 1 January 2016 under the Industrial Emissions The safe execution of so much additional and Generation growth strategy.
Our plant performance has complex work is a great credit to all those been excellent in this area, and the significant involved, a Total Recordable Injury Rate for investment in emissions abatement the year of 0.13 being testament to this.
technology has allowed us to run the plant flexibly, as we wished, while staying within In addition to the planned maintenance our annual allowance.
We continue to look at programme, the entire organisation has ways to improve our emissions performance.
responded to a number of unplanned events.
The management of these events COMMODITY MARKETS AND requires seamless teamwork between GENERATINGCAPACITY the operational, commercial and back Our profitability remains primarily influenced office functions to protect value.
by the bark spread the difference between the power price and the cost of biomass The delivery of excellent cross-team working net of renewable support and the dark is required in all aspects of our business.
green spread the difference between This allows us to capture value through the power price and the cost of coal and flexibility: examples include sourcing and carbon, including CO processing non-standard fuels and capturing allowances under the 2 value in the short-term power markets.
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support CPS mechanism.
We have also continued to develop a cost and value conscious culture.
The business During 2016, persistently low oil and natural has utilised systems such as Lean, ideas gas prices, combined with warm winter forums and targeted profit improvement weather, have kept wholesale electricity initiatives to deliver material value.
However, this year did see the first tangible signs of a 30 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TECHNOLOGY SUMMER IN THE STATION Carrying out the huge volume of work What happens in the summertime required to shut down and maintain at the UKs largest power station?
the units systems of conveyors, mills, KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS burners, boilers, pipes, cables and Electricity demand is lower in the summer, turbines meant that 3,500 people so the assumption would be that activity were working at the power station, at Drax Power Station is minimal.
The including a large number of engineering reality, however, is very different.
Its a number weve never in demand is an opportunity to perform 12.7TWH seen previously, Andrew says.
crucial maintenance work to invest, upgrade and extend the life of our power Biomass generation As Europes largest decarbonisation station and prepare for the winter months.
project, maintaining our biomass units has presented us with new challenges.
To carry out major repairs, large sections Were understanding the engineering of the power station need to come implications of using biomass in our 6.9TWH offline this is called an outage.
We run boilers, and developing strategies a schedule where each of our six 645 for maintenance, says Andrew.
MW units has a major outage every four Coal generation years, says Andrew Squires, Outage Original story at: http: www.
2016 was a particularly busy technology  year, with two such outages and four smaller ones for essential repair works.
48 Average achieved power price per MWh sold FOR MORE TECHNOLOGY STORIES VISIT DRAX.
COM 31 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED DRAX POWER FINANCIAL RESULTS DRAX POWER FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 To end the year ahead of internal targets m m given the challenging trading, operational Revenue 2,490.9 2,638.2 and regulatory conditions, in particular Cost of power purchases 904.4 843.5 the timing of the CfD, represents an excellent performance.
The negative Grid charges 69.4 84.1 impact of the delay in CfD approval and Fuel costs 1,180.1 1,320.5 unit availability issues has been offset by: Cost of sales 2,153.9 2,248.1 1 prompt market and system balancing Gross profit 337.0 390.1 activity which played to our strengths: and demonstrated, yet again, our importance Operating costs 163.2 175.5 to the Grid to ensure system stability: and EBITDA 173.8 214.6 2 the decision by National Grid to award the business a new 12-month black start contract demonstrating the value of Drax in helping to keep the UK electricity systemrobust.
Gross profit for 2016 was 337 million compared to 390 million in 2015.
This 2016 HAS SEEN THE LARGEST reduction includes the impact of lower power prices, lower generation and the SCOPE OF MAINTENANCE removal of the CCL exemption and this was mitigated by prompt market and WORK THE STATION HAS system balancing activity and the new EVER TACKLED: WE HAVE 12-month ancillary services contract.
32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and mitigations At an operating cost level, we have contributed to a reduction in Group Regulatory risk We engage with key regulatory stakeholders in government costs, despite the unprecedented level to continue support for biomass within renewables of on-site work described above.
As a result, EBITDA for the year was Plant risk We target investment to deliver a safety first operation which 173.8million 2015: 214.6 million.
The plans are responsive to evolving running patterns and build on experience of operating LOOKING AHEAD converted units, including strategic spares and insurance.
Our objective remains to run a reliable, Biomass sourcing and We have long-term contracting plans and continue to flexible and profitable generation business.
operations risk strengthen relationships with suppliers.
To complement this An important part of this is working as a wecan access spot markets.
team to execute agile decisions and capture value in a market where grid stability Flexible contracting, with regular sampling and inspections, is becoming increasingly important.
In secures a reliable and sustainable supply of good quality fuel addition, following the purchase of four tosupport high load factors.
sites with the potential for us to build 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbines OCGTs, Commodity and FX market We have a progressive hedging strategy with forward power the business has initiated the process price risk and Renewable Obligation Certificate ROC sales combined to diversify our generation earnings.
This is supplemented by the FX hedging strategy.
CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY Capturing prompt market We actively engage with National Grid to offer system services.
Sustainability has guided our business value and network services We maintain flexible, reliable station operations to target nearpurpose for over four decades.
We have term trading and balancing market opportunities.
evolved and innovated to meet the changing needs of society.
During the 1980s we Key Performance Indicators invested in desulphurisation equipment to clean up coal, in 2003 we invested Area KPI Unit of measure 2016 2015 in research and development to assess People Safety TRIR 0.13 0.26 whether biomass was a sustainable fuel of the future.
Today we have converted Economic Biomass generation TWH 12.7 11.5 three units to burn biomass which now Low carbon future Carbon intensity Tonnes GWH 297 474 accounts for 65% of our total output.
Security of supply Availability % 77.1 85.1 Looking ahead, our coal units are expected to end operations by 2025, while investment in OCGTs will act as an enabler for other forms of renewable energy, particularly wind and solar power.
Our business purpose directly tackles a number of the UNs sustainable development goals endorsed by 193 governments.
33 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED DIVISIONAL STRATEGY Billington Bioenergy Billington remains 2016 was an important year for Haven Power one of the leading UK suppliers of ENplusA1 with the appointment of Jonathan Kini biomass wood pellets for heating to domestic as CEO.
The strategic focus of Haven is to and business customers.
Billington supports challenge the market and how customers the Groups continued position that there use power, through our unique ability to is significant potential for biomass within provide reliable and renewable energy the UK market for heating purposes, aligned generated using biomass technology.
with the UK Governments policy objective to decarbonise heat over the next decade.
As the main part of the Retail arm for Drax Group, Haven supplies electricity MARKET to business customers offering 100% The business sector of the electricity renewable electricity, competitive pricing, supply market has continued to be Jonathan Kini very competitive with our established first-class customer service, and contracts Chief Executive competitors being joined by new entrants.
tailored precisely to their needs.
Drax Retail We are continually improving our service, The Haven strategy is to: We have delivered strong enhancing relationships with our customers, and providing the products and propositions Inspire change so that energy becomes performance across the UK business needs, and so increasing the part of a bigger sustainability agenda: it is retail market in an value that Haven provides to the Group.
not just about the kind of energy used, it is also about the way energy is used.
The increasingly challenging The renewable heating market is gaining ambition is to make sustainability in energy environment.
traction and has benefitted from Government second nature.
support under the Renewable Heat Work with customers to manage their Incentive RHI.
Meet customer demands to deliver The focus of Billington is on the secure renewable energy.
and reliable supply of consistent quality Havens customer base is both the Industrial heating pellets, delivered with excellent and Commercial I&C and small and customer service.
This is supported by a medium-sized enterprises SME markets.
robust sustainable purchasing strategy, strategic stock holdings, and a well-positioned Haven provides value for the Drax Group depot network.
Market growth has been through the provision of an alternative driven primarily by the RHI, which the creditefficient route to market for the Government has confirmed will continue to power, ROCs and Renewable Energy be supported through to 2021, encouraging Guarantees ofOrigin earned when Drax consumers to adopt renewable forms of generates renewable power.
heating, such as biomass, and move away from fossil fuel heating systems primarily heating oil and liquefied petroleum gas.
DRAX RETAIL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 m m Revenue 1,326.4 1,290.0 Cost of power purchases 688.9 710.2 Grid charges 310.4 285.4 Other retail costs 303.6 275.1 Cost of sales 1,303.0 1,270.7 Gross profit 23.5 19.3 Operating costs 27.8 25.6 EBITDA 4.3 6.3 34 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TECHNOLOGY SMART METERS How the energy we use to power and heat our lives is tracked, recorded and fed back to utility companies is changing.
It could mean lower bills and a more stable energy network and its all thanks to smart meters.
Its a simple piece of technology that can have a serious impact on how you use energy and how much you pay for it.
We are currently investing in technology to allow us to use the new national smart metering infrastructure.
Haven will roll out smart meters to its customers between 2017 and 2020.
Billington has installed smart meters known as fuel level measurement systems in care homes and schools and projects that a third of its bulk-blown FOR MORE pellet customers will have them installed by 2020.
TECHNOLOGY STORIES VISIT Original story at: http: www.
COM  KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Risks and mitigations Regulatory and political risk Where possible we seek to work closely with and influence regulatory and other bodies Credit risk We have well-developed credit checking and 14.6TWH monitoring procedures Retail power sales volume at customer meter Commodity market price risk We have well-developed hedging policies which are kept under review for market developments Operating risk We have business continuity plans in place which are regularly reviewed and tested 6% Year-on year retail power sales volume growth OPERATIONAL REVIEW The volume growth continues to be from An excellent standard of customer service the larger I&C market.
Many of our larger is central to our retail business proposition.
customers are signed up to flexible contracts where the customer decides when to fix the 21% This good service reputation has supported price of their power, or to leave it to day or retention levels.
Haven was named Supplier month ahead prices.
The lower wholesale of the Year at the UKs Energy Awards 2016, power prices have therefore impacted Year-on-year Gross Margin growth as a result of our focus on energy efficiency, on the average sales price for 2016. customer service and customer partnerships.
Third Party Costs TPCs include grid charges, We actively manage credit risk by assessing the cost of meeting our obligations under the financial strength of customers and the Renewable Obligation RO and smallapplying rigorous credit management scale Feed-in-Tariff schemes.
A strong focus continues to be include distribution, transmission and system placed on billing and cash collection which balancing costs.
TPCs have continued to has resulted in the retail business being increase and now account for 46% of revenue.
a net contributor of cash to the Group.
The markets have continued to remain FINANCIAL REVIEW very competitive.
A focus on sourcing, Movements in key financial metrics are products and services during 2016 underpinned by continued growth in the contributed to the gross margin growth.
retail business and changes in average prices.
For the period in question Haven delivered Billington also delivered strong sales net sales volume growth of 6% to 14.6TWH volume growth.
Margins were in line 2015: 13.8TWH and gross margin growth with expectations of the business of 21% to 23.5 million 2015: 19.3 million.
for this stage of its development.
These factors resulted in a reduction of the Retail EBITDA loss to 4.3million 2015: 6.3 million.
35 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
