Financial Review 2016 was a year of continued growth and investment, building our technology capability and creating options for the future.
Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer Extract of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 Note m m Revenue 316.4 281.7 Cost of sales 79.6 56.3 Gross profit 236.8 225.4 Distribution expenses 34.3 34.2 Administrative expenses 109.2 110.8 Impairment of intangible assets 2.2 Operating profit 91.1 80.5 Reconciliation to adjusted operating profit: Operating profit 91.1 80.5 Amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets 1 14.5 14.9 Contingent payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com 2 4.8 Impairment of intangible assets 3 2.2 Adjusted operating profit 107.8 100.1 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share: basic p 15.7 14.5 diluted p 15.6 14.5 Full Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income see page: 82 Notes The results show the trading results for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 respectively.
The following adjustments have been made in arriving at adjusted operating profit: 1 Amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets The acquisition of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited by the Company prior to Listing gave rise to 207.2m of intangible assets.
These are being written off over a period of 310 years with a charge of 13.2m expensed in 2016 2015: 13.2m.
The acquisition of the trade and certain assets of MoneySavingExpert.
com and a sole trader business from Martin Lewis together MSE on 21 September 2012 by the Group gave rise to 12.9m of intangible assets.
These are being written off over a period of 310 years with a charge of 1.3m included within 2016 2015: 1.6m.
We expect amortisation of acquisition intangible assets to be in the region of 7 million for 2017.
2 Contingent payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert In 2015, the Group recognised an administrative expense relating to deferred remuneration which was linked to continued employment in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income of 4.8m.
3 Goodwill and intangible asset write downs Goodwill of 1.5m in relation to the acquisition of OnTrees in March 2014 has been written off during the year as management now consider that the app is unlikely to generate revenues in the short term.
In addition, the Group has written off the residual book value of MySuitcase within TravelSupermarket, as this feature has not performed as anticipated.
4 Alternative performance measures The Group uses a number of alternative non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures which are not defined within IFRS.
The Directors use these measures when reviewing performance of the Group, evidenced by executive management bonus performance targets being measured in relation to AOP and Long Term Incentive Schemes being measured in relation to Adjusted EPS.
As such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The adjustments are separately disclosed and are usually items that are significant in size or non-recurring in nature.
For example, amortisation of acquisition intangibles is a non-cash item which fluctuates significantly in line with acquisition activity and the impairment of OnTrees goodwill and MySuitcase technology related intangibles are considered a one-off.
Alternative performance measures used within these statements are accompanied with a reference to the relevant GAAP measure and the adjustments made.
22 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Revenue m Adjusted earnings per share p Cash m 316.4m 15.7p 44.6m 12% 8% 167% The Group traded strongly in the year with revenue increasing 12% to 316.4m 2015: 281.7m and net profit after tax of 73.5m 2015: 63.4m, up 16%.
The Group invested further in its technology with 22.6m spent during the year.
When reviewing performance, the Directors use a number of adjusted measures, including adjusted operating profit which increased by 8% to 107.8m 2015: 100.1m.
This is reconciled on the opposite page.
Through our strong and diversified range of products to enable consumers to save money, the Group delivered revenue growth of 12%.
Growth was particularly good in the Insurance and Home Services businesses, with Insurance recovering through the year supported by our new platform which allows more responsive changes to be made.
com rose 20% before eliminating intra-group revenues.
Growth came mainly from credit cards, current accounts and also utilities, which continued to benefit from the success of Cheap Energy Club and a number of collective switches.
Credit Club also launched during the year, providing a platform for growth.
com contributed 26.2m to Group adjusted operating profit 2015: 21.4m.
com revenues fell 9% following planned changes to the customer offer at the end of 2015.
The business worked to improve the customer journey through 2016 and returned to revenue growth in the final quarter.
The Group invested further in technology, with 22.6m spent in 2016 2015: 19.6m.
This investment was in developing our data capability, and improving the customer experience, including the launch of MoneySavingExpert Credit Club and our smartphone app, MoneySuperMarket GO.
The investment gives the capability for greater flexibility, personalisation and scalability.
Customers see better connectivity across channels and are increasingly able to use different devices to conduct the same transaction.
The total technology spend, defined as technology operating costs excluding amortisation plus technology capital investment, for 2016 is 46m 2015: 43m.
During 2017 we expect technology costs to be a little lower and with a planned capital investment of up to 17m.
In 2017 technology amortisation is expected to be in the region of 17m.
Our investment allows us to deliver improved personalisation and better experience on mobile devices.
Group gross margins were lower at 75% 2015: 80%, with an increase in planned marketing spend and the ongoing success of MoneySavingExperts collective energy switch cashback offers.
We plan on continuing this strategy.
In the second half the Group gross margin was 73%, and we anticipate the margin will be similar going forward.
Paid search generated 22% of revenue in the year 2015: 15%.
Distribution costs were similar to last year, with the Group continuing the Youre So MoneySuperMarket campaign on television, supported by radio and print.
Adjusted administrative costs increased by 4% from 91.1m to 94.9m in 2016.
Staff costs including contract resource were 1% lower at 50.6m.
Other administrative costs increased by 4m, mainly as a result of increased technology amortisation costs.
Adjusted operating profit margins remained broadly stable at 34.1% 2015: 35.5%.
Group KPIs The Directors use key performance indicators KPIs to assess the performance of the business against the Groups strategy.
Our strategy is to build on our core business of helping customers to find the right product by investing in our technology, customer data and tools.
This enables us to build deeper relationships, and deliver more value to both customers and providers.
The three strategic priorities are: be the best site: earn customer loyalty: and be the preferred partner for our providers.
The KPIs measure our progress against these priorities.
Best site: Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Change Average monthly unique visitors 23.4m 23.6m 1 % Investment in technology 22.6m 19.6m 15% During the year we invested 22.6m 2015: 19.6m in our technology and delivered improvements to the customer journey.
We rolled out our new platform across channels and developed the MoneySuperMarket GO app.
MoneySavingExpert built on its successful Cheap Energy Club by launching its Credit Club, allowing users to view both their credit score and the amount of credit they can potentially afford, and understand what these mean for the credit products available to them.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 Financial Review continued Earn customer loyalty: Trusted destination brands 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Change Unique adults choosing to share data 22.2m 18.6m 19% Net promoter score 43% 48% 5 % Savings made by customers 1.8bn 1.6bn 13% We estimate that in 2016 customer savings increased 13% to 1.8bn.
We added 3.6 million more customers to MyProfile which allows users to keep their details up to date.
This helps us personalise services more and to improve customer experience on smartphones.
As more and more customers want to use our services on multiple devices, we continue to develop our mobile and tablet journeys.
Customers can now access the same platform and pick up their transaction and details where they left off across their various devices.
Our Net Promoter Score fell 5%, reflecting the challenges we experienced with the TravelSupermarket.
com, the Net Promoter Score remained flat at 49%.
Preferred partner: Be the best way for providers to acquire customers 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Change Number of providers 980 877 12% Marketing margin 64% 68% 4 % Our business success is built on providing value to customers, which can only be achieved by adding value to our providers.
We do this by making improvements to our CRM capability and other marketing to help providers reach the right customers effectively.
We use our data tools, analytics and position as a major independent price comparison website to develop relationships with providers and secure market leading exclusive products for customers.
Providers understand the value we bring and we continue to attract a strong panel of providers on our sites.
Planned increases in marketing and increased cashback to customers as we successfully grew MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club meant our marketing margin was lower in 2016.
Trading performance The Group operates across a number of businesses and markets.
These are discussed below: 1 Revenue 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 m % m % Insurance 155.2 49 140.2 50 Money 78.9 25 72.4 26 Home Services 51.0 16 37.5 13 MoneySuperMarket.
com arising from traffic from MoneySavingExpert.
com have been shown in both MoneySuperMarket.
com to present the revenues from MoneySuperMarket.
com on a consistent basis and to show the contribution of the MoneySavingExpert.
com business to the Group.
Intercompany revenues are then eliminated as shown above.
2 Other revenues represent revenues from the shopping and vouchers channels 0.1m 2015: 0.1m plus significant, one-off recoveries relating to prior years of 0.6m 2015: nil arising from revenue assurance activity.
Insurance The Insurance vertical offers customers the ability to search for and compare insurance products including breakdown, home, life, motor, pet and travel insurance.
Revenue in the Insurance vertical increased 11% from 140.2m to 155.2m.
After a weak end to 2015 the insurance business recovered strongly in 2016 with revenues rising by 2% in the first half and 20% in the second half, benefiting from additional planned marketing and our new technology platform.
Money The Money vertical offers customers the ability to search for and compare products including credit cards, current accounts, mortgages, loans, debt solutions, savings accounts and business finance.
Revenue in the money vertical increased by 9% from 72.4m to 78.9m.
Revenue growth was driven primarily by cards, loans and current accounts, whilst savings revenues reduced due to the reduction in interest rates in August.
24 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements the level of dividend cover.
Home Services The Home Services vertical offers customers the ability to search for and compare products such as broadband, mobile phones, Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, the parent company of the Group, vouchers, shopping and utilities.
Revenue in the Home Services vertical is a non-trading investment holding company which derives its increased by 36% from 37.5m to 51.0m.
distributable reserves from dividends paid by subsidiary companies.
The Board reviews the level of distributable reserves in the parent company Utility switching makes up the majority of revenues in Home Services bi-annually, to align with the proposed interim and final dividend and this continued to benefit from collective switches, allowing payment dates, and aims to maintain distributable reserves that provide customers to apply for market-leading tariffs available exclusively adequate cover for dividend payments.
The distributable reserves of the through the Group, together with the ongoing success of the parent company approximate to the balance on the profit and loss MoneySavingExpert.
com Cheap Energy Club, which allows account reserve, which at 31 December 2016 amounted to 160.5 householders to register for alerts when savings available against their million as disclosed in the Company balance sheet on page 105. current tariff exceed a predetermined amount set by the consumer.
The Group is well positioned to continue to fund its dividend which continues to be well covered by cash generated by the business.
com Details on the Groups continuing viability and going concern can be TravelSupermarket.
com offers customers the ability to search for and found on pages 25 to 26. compare car hire, flights, hotels and package holidays, amongst other things.
Revenue fell by 9% from 24.5m to 22.3m.
The ability of the Board to maintain future dividend policy will be influenced by a number of the principal risks identified on pages 30 to Following the re-platforming of the business at the end of 2015, 31 that could adversely impact the performance of the Group.
The risks TravelSupermarkets customer journey has been improved during that could specifically have an adverse impact on the dividend policy 2016 and the business returned to revenue growth in the final quarter are competition, changing consumer behaviour, brand strength, of the year.
product offering, customer trust including cyber, relevance to partners and economic uncertainty, although we believe we have the ability to MoneySavingExpert.
com MSE mitigate those risks as outlined on pages 30 to 31.
MoneySavingExpert is one of the UKs biggest consumer finance websites and is dedicated to cutting consumers costs and For 2016, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 7.1 pence fighting their corner by means of journalism, great tools and per share, making the proposed full-year dividend 9.85 pence per a large community.
The 8 per cent increase in the 2016 proposed full-year dividend is broadly in line with the 8 per cent MoneySavingExpert.
com generated revenue of 36.8m 2015: 30.7m, increase in adjusted diluted earnings per share, with underlying of which 28.5m 2015: 23.7m related to revenues also recognised dividend cover maintained at 1.6 times 2015: 1.6 times.
com, generated from traffic referred to it by dividend of 7.1 pence per share will be paid on 12 May 2017 to MoneySavingExpert.
It contributed 26.2m 2015: 21.4m to Group shareholders on the register on 7 April 2017, subject to approval by adjusted operating profit.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2017.
Good revenue growth was delivered from credit products and utility In line with our capital allocation policy, we are announcing our switching.
Utilities revenue benefitted from Cheap Energy Club and intention to initiate a share repurchase programme for up to collective switches which continue to be popular with users.
40 million which will be conducted during 2017.
Cash Tax As at 31 December 2016 the Group had cash of 44.6m 2015: 16.7m.
The Group tax charge of 17.8m in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income represents an effective tax rate of 19.5% In November 2016, the Group exercised its option to extend by a 2015: 20.5%.
This is broadly in line with the prevailing rate of 20% further year to December 2019, the three-year revolving credit facility 2015: 20.25% and the Group expects the underlying effective rate of of 100m in committed funds provided in equal parts by Lloyds Bank tax to continue to approximate to the standard UK corporation tax PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The Group also has an option to apply to rate.
the banks for up to an additional 100m of committed funds during the first two years of the facility.
The facility was unused at the year end.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic statutory earnings per ordinary share for the year ended 31 Dividends December 2016 was 13.5p 2015:11.6p.
Adjusted basic earnings per The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the ordinary share increased from 14.5p to 15.7p per share.
ordinary dividend each year broadly in line with the growth in underlying earnings per share.
In addition, the Group expects to The adjusted earnings per ordinary share is based on profit before tax generate significant surplus cash over time.
Available surpluses, after after adjusting for intangible amortisation related to acquisitions, taking into account the matters set out below will be distributed to goodwill and intangible asset impairments and the profit on disposal of shareholders over time, and historically this has been done by way of HD Decisions 2015: after adjusting for intangible amortisation related special dividend payments.
Whilst the Board continues to consider to acquisitions and costs related to the contingent payable for dividends to be the primary method of returning capital to MoneySavingExpert.
The tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% has been shareholders, it will also undertake share repurchases when applied to calculate adjusted profit after tax.
Viability statement In determining the level of dividend in any year in accordance with the As required by Provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate policy, the Board also considers a number of other factors that Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the influence the proposed dividend, which include but are not limited to: Group over a three-year period to December 2019.
In making this the level of available distributable reserves in the parent company: assessment the Directors took account of the Business Model future cash commitments and investment needs including for and Principal Risks set out on pages 8 to 9 and 30 to 31 of the technology investment to sustain the long-term growth prospects Strategic Report.
of the business: potential strategic opportunities: prudent buffer: and Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 Financial Review continued Stress scenarios were then combined into one combined scenario for Business Model those scenarios with impacts of medium or higher likelihood and The Group has a simple business model matching customers to the moderate or higher residual risk.
It uses online services to help customers to compare a wide range of products in one place and make an informed choice The Directors also considered possible mitigating circumstances and when taking out the product most suited to their needs.
For our actions in the event of such scenarios occurring, including the providers, it offers an efficient and cost-effective way to reach a large availability of the Groups banking facilities, reduction of future volume of informed customers who are actively looking for a product.
dividends or the slowdown of capital expenditure.
For the majority of our services, we receive a success-based marketing fee from the providers.
This business model operates through the The Board manages risks across the Group through a formal risk following key principles: identification and management framework, designed to ensure that the Group relies on customer transactions for its revenues and risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and mitigated to the does not have long-term contracted revenue streams: extent possible.
Key aspects of this framework include: customers will continue to see value in shopping around for a Risk Appetite Statement expressing the amount and type of risk products and services and will aim to save money by doing so: and the Board is willing to accept in order to achieve the Groups providers will continue to have strategies of new customer strategic objectives: acquisition and will develop products and services to fulfil that regular assessments of current and emerging risks being faced by strategy.
the Group including internal control effectiveness and mitigating actions: The Group has three strategic priorities to be the best site, earn risk metrics and thresholds which are monitored as potential indicators of risk: customer loyalty and be the preferred partner for our providers.
The Board has set KPIs to monitor the delivery of these strategic priorities.
scenario planning based on the Principal Risks: and oversight from the Risk and Compliance and Internal The Strategic Report sets out the Groups performance on the main Audit functions.
The Board monitors and reviews progress against three time horizonsquarterly to review and reforecast performance against the Viability assessment Annual Plan and Budget: annually to establish a clear Annual Plan and In making its assessment of viability, the Board has considered the Budget that will deliver against the Strategic Plan: and a three-year resilience of the Group using scenario-planning based on the Principal Strategic Plan re-assessed annually, to determine the strategy of the Risks to test the Groups planned earnings, cash flows and viability over Group.
Using its judgement on the likelihood of the Principal Risks and the probability of them being interrelated, the Board The Board believes that a three-year cycle is the right time period to assessed the risks separately and in certain combinations of stress plan the business as this links to the expected lifecycle of the Groups testing scenarios.
In arriving at its conclusion, the Board is making the technology and reflects the frequent changes in the way that assumption that the key aspects of customer and provider behaviour consumers choose to use technology.
Therefore, the Board is using a set out above which underpin the business model will continue.
It is three-year period to make this viability assessment.
also assuming that customers and providers will continue to want to transact online.
Risk Management Based on the Companys current position and Principal Risks, together The Board has identified the Groups Principal Risks around delivering these strategic priorities, which represent a risk or combination of risks with the results of this robust assessment and the Companys ongoing risk management processes, the Directors have a reasonable in severe but reasonable scenarios that can seriously affect the future prospects or reputation of the Group through threatening its business expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
For best site, the Principal Risks are competition and changes in consumer behaviour: their assessment.
for earning customer loyalty, they are brand strength, product offering and consumer trust: and for being the preferred partner, the Going concern Principal Risks are ongoing relevance to partners and data Having reassessed the Principal Risks, the Directors are satisfied that errors and inaccuracies.
the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date In addition, the Directors believe that the Group faces risks around of this Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going regulation and economic uncertainty including, in particular, the concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
impact of the EU referendum decision especially as that may influence the availability of attractive products for customers.
Investment Proposition The Group is a pure online business model that makes money by The risks described above were assessed in a range of scenarios, providing customers with free, easy to use, online services so they can encompassing: search for a wide range of products and save money.
It is well competition taking significant market share: established, with well-known and recognised brands and a rich changes in customer habits through use of different access customer data asset.
The Group operates in a diversified set of methods and payment methodologies impacting particular markets, each with significant headroom and growth opportunities.
The channels: organic growth is supported by the investment strategy to differentiate increased reliance on SEM as a means of attracting customers: our customer proposition through technology, customer data and loss of a significant product category: tools.
Investors benefit from investing in a highly cash generative loss of trust in data, for example due to a data breach or data business with a progressive ordinary dividend policy.
errors, leading to a fall in visitor volumes: significant slowdown in growth rates across insurance and money channels: regulatory changes impacting a number of channels: and significant slowdown over the 3 year time horizon arising from the EU referendum decision.
26 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016
