DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit the Annual Report of Polymetal International PRINCIPAL RISKS FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING CAPITAL STRUCTURE plc together with the audited financial statements of Polymetal The Board has continued to place great emphasis on risk The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the Strategic The structure of the Companys share capital is detailed in International plc for the year ended 31 December 2016. management in 2016, taking into account material external Report on pages 2 to 69 of this Annual Report provide the Note 30 to the financial statements.
There are no specific restrictions economic and geopolitical challenges and considering the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Groups responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
performance, business model and strategy.
regulated by the Articles of the Company and applicable legislation.
Refer to pages 72 to 77 for a description of the Groups corporate The detailed assessment of principal risks and uncertainties facing The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of governance structure and policies.
the Group is set out on pages 64-69 of this Annual Report.
DIRECTORS the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Directors, their status and Board Committee memberships of shares or on voting rights.
GOING CONCERN The corporate planning process is underpinned by life-of-mine are set out on pages 70 to 75 of the Report.
In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account plans and stress scenario testing.
The stress tests are designed The Articles of the Company can be altered by a special resolution of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, to evaluate the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS of the Company.
A resolution is a special resolution when it is its borrowings and other available credit facilities, and its forecast principal risks and the availability and effectiveness of the mitigating The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, passed by three-quarters of the members who being entitled compliance with covenants on those borrowings and its capital actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director and, in either case, to do so vote in person, or by proxy, at a General Meeting of the expenditure commitments and plans.
As at 31 December 2016, occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely whether or not for a fixed term.
Irrespective of the terms of his or her Company.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles, the Directors have the Group held US$48 million of cash and had net debt of effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards appointment, a Director so appointed shall hold office only until the the power to allot Equity Securities as defined in the Articles.
At 31 December 2016 the Group has undrawn regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, next AGM.
If not re-appointed at such AGM, he or she shall vacate facilities of US$998 million, of which US$873 million were as discussed on 64-65 and 81, were taken into account.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate considered committed.
upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial KEY ASSUMPTIONS The Company may, by ordinary resolution, remove any Director contracts, bank loan agreements and employees share plans.
None The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, The key assumptions underpinning the Boards assessment include from office notwithstanding any provision of the Companys Articles of these is considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading gold and silver prices, production volumes, foreign exchange rates or of any agreement between the Company and such Director, on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to and the ability to roll forward borrowing facilities as they fall due but without prejudice to any claim that he or she may have for are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months in the ordinary course of business.
damages for breach of any such agreement.
No special notice Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of from the date of this report and that it is appropriate to adopt the needs to be given of any resolution to remove a Director and no office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial In making these forecasts, full consideration has also been Director proposed to be removed has any special right to protest Substantial shareholdings in the Company are disclosed on statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. given to all other principal risks to the business.
These risks have against his or her removal.
The Company may, by ordinary page 179. been considered in our stress testing where appropriate, or are resolution, appoint another person in place of a Director removed LONGER-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT considered to be either immaterial or too remote to affect our from office.
Details of employee option schemes are set out in the Remuneration Based on key drivers and measures of success used within the viability over a three-year period.
There were no acquisitions of the Companys business, the Board assessed the prospects of the Group, taking DIRECTORS INTERESTS own shares in 2016. account of potential impact of the principal risks to the Groups LIQUIDITY AND SOLVENCY Information on Directors interests in shares of the Company business model and ability to deliver its strategy, including solvency The sources of funding available to the Group are set out in Note 24 is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 94.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group and its subsidiaries held no and liquidity risks during the reasonably reliable lookout period.
to the consolidated financial statements.
Our base case projections treasury shares 31 December 2015: no shares.
demonstrate that the Group should be able to operate within the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES LOOKOUT PERIOD currently available debt facilities and comply with all related To the extent permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991, the As at 31 December 2016, the Company had shareholders authority The period over which the Board considers it possible to form a covenants during the lookout period, assuming necessary roll-overs Company has indemnified every Director and other officer of the to purchase up to 42,475,167 of its own ordinary shares.
reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based and limited additional debt based on the historically successful Company other than any person whether an officer or not on the stress testing and scenario planning process employed by ability of the Group to raise finance.
Our stress testing focuses in engaged by the Company as auditor out of the assets of the At the AGM of the Company held in 2016, the power to allot Equity the Group, is the three-year period to December 2019.
This is within particular on significant adverse changes in market prices of gold Company against any liability incurred by him or her for negligence, Securities was renewed up to an aggregate number of 141,583,891 the Groups existing medium-term forecasting performed on the and silver or foreign exchange rates and demonstrates that under default, breach of duty, breach of trust or otherwise in relation to the ordinary shares, provided that the Directors power in respect of annual basis and covering strategic and investment medium-term reasonably possible downside gold and silver price and exchange affairs of the Company.
This provision does not affect any indemnity such an amount may only be used in connection with a pre-emptive planning.
The Board is confident that routine operational risks are rate assumptions, only limited mitigating action is required to to which a Director or officer is otherwise entitled.
issue as defined in the Articles.
being effectively monitored and managed within the three-year maintain liquidity and covenant compliance, including the lookout period and corporate scenario planning is focusing primarily refinancing of existing facilities as they mature.
POLITICAL DONATIONS on plausible changing external factors with a reasonable degree of The Company may not make a political donation to a political confidence whilst still providing an appropriate longer term outlook.
EXPECTATIONS party or other political organisation, or to an independent election The Board confirms that taking into account the Groups current candidate, or incur any political expenditure, unless such position and based upon the robust assessment of the principal donation or expenditure is authorised by an ordinary resolution of risks facing the Group and stress testing-based assessment of the shareholders passed before the donation is made or the expenditure Groups prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the incurred.
No such donations were made in 2016 2015: none.
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019.
100 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 101 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are further empowered pursuant to Article 12.4 DIVIDENDS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT of the Companys Articles to allot Equity Securities for cash as if The Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 and financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Article 13 of the Articles Pre-emptive rights did not apply and for attributable to equity holders of the Company was US$395 million and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the purposes of paragraph b of Article 12.4 of the Articles, the 2015: US$221 million.
Underlying net earnings adjusted for the International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair Non Pre-emptive Shares as defined in the Articles are an aggregate after-tax amount of impairment charges, foreign exchange gains Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss number of up to 42,475,167 ordinary shares.
losses and change in fair value of contingent consideration liability for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required of the company and the undertakings included in the in 2016 were US$282 million 2015: US$291 million.
In August to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with consolidation taken as a whole: and The authorities above will, unless previously revoked or varied, 2016, the Company declared an interim dividend of US$0.09 per International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use the management report, which is incorporated into the strategic expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or, if earlier, share 2015: US$0.08 per share, which was paid in September in the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required report, includes a fair review of the development and performance at the close of business on the date which is 15 months after the 2016.
The Directors have proposed the payment of a final dividend by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies of the business and the position of the Company and the date of the resolution which granted them, being 17 August 2017. of US$0.18 per share 2015: US$0.13 per share.
Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Pursuant to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Company is authorised to make market purchases of ordinary The AGM of shareholders of the Company will take place on This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, shares of the Company, provided that: Tuesday 16 May 2017 at 10.30 am BST at etc.
venues Monument, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and By order of the Board, 8 Eastcheap, London EC3M 1AE.
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set the maximum number of ordinary shares to be purchased is out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework 42,475,167 ordinary shares: AUDITORS for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid for Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved each ordinary share is 1 penny: of this Annual Report confirms that: by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are also required to: the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit each ordinary share is the higher of: information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and properly select and apply accounting policies: Bobby Godsell a. an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market Chairman the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken present information, including accounting policies, in quotations of an ordinary share in the Company as derived as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor understandable information: business days immediately preceding the day on which the is aware of that information.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office b. an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint it will be proposed at the independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial forthcoming AGM.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews both independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the performance: and the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees Vitaly Nesis London Stock Exchange Trading System: make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue in as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the Group CEO pursuant to Article 58A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the audit process.
the Company may hold as treasury shares any ordinary shares reasonably reliable lookout period of three years.
14 March 2017 purchased pursuant to the authority conferred in this resolution.
Having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought to the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting attention of the Board during the year into account, we are satisfied This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and AGM or 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that understandable, and provides the information necessary for being 17 November 2017 whichever is earlier.
the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the model and strategy.
Approval of share issues, consideration for which does not Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention exceed US$15 million, is delegated to any Director holding any and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board executive office.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of As of 14 March 2017 the total issued share capital of the Company the corporate and financial information included on the Companys comprises 429,971,261 ordinary shares of no par value, each website.
Legislation in the UK and Jersey governing the preparation carrying one vote.
During the year, 3,612,200 ordinary shares in the and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Company were issued as follows: 110,850 shares in accordance in other jurisdictions.
with the Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP : 1,481,785 shares as Bobby Godsell consideration payment for the acquisition of the Kapan Gold Mine in Chairman Armenia: 898,875 shares for additional 25% stake in Tarutin deposit: and 1,120,690 for the controlling interest in Saum property.
14 March 2017 102 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY In our opinion: OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2016 and of its profit for We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going We confirm that we have nothing material the year then ended: concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and the to add or draw attention to in respect of directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group, contained within the these matters.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Directors report on page 100.
European Union: and We agree with the Directors adoption of the We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention going concern basis of accounting and we did have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law, 1991. to in relation to: not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or the Directors confirmation on page 100 that they have carried out a robust The financial statements that we have audited comprise: conditions can be predicted, this statement assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the Consolidated Income Statement: is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: to continue as a going concern.
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the disclosures on pages 66-69 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about whether they the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group ability to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval the Significant accounting policies: and of the financial statements: and the related Notes 1 to 34. the Directors explanation on page 100 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Independence We confirm that we are independent of the Recoverability of operating and development assets and goodwill We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our responsibilities in accordance with those Valuation and existence of metal inventories other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Accounting for and valuation of acquisitions services referred to in those standards.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was US$21 million, which was determined on the basis of 4% The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of Profit before tax, adjusted for net foreign exchange gains and losses.
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Scoping Our audit scope focused primarily on nine key reportable segments Voro, Okhotsk, Dukat, Omolon, Varvara, Amursk Albazino, Mayskoye, Kyzyl and Armenia and the corporate entities such that 100% of revenue Recoverability of operating and development assets and goodwill 2015: 100% and 97% of total assets 2015: 97% were subject to a full scope audit, which is consistent with Notes 18 and 19 and Page 80 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report last years approach.
Risk description As a consequence of continued volatility in gold and silver prices, foreign exchange rates and the political and Significant changes The Group completed two acquisitions in the year Kapan and Komar and the accounting for these involves economic uncertainties in Russia, the assessment of recoverability of the operating and development assets in our approach management judgement and has been included as a new key risk in the current year.
carried at US$1,625 million and goodwill carried at US$17 million remains a key judgment.
Management has assessed whether any indicators of impairment, or impairment reversal, existed at its nine cash generating units CGUs as set out in Note 5 and development projects.
Where goodwill is allocated to that CGU at Dukat and Mayskoye, management performed formal impairment testing as at 31 December 2016 to assess whether the recoverable amount of the CGU exceeds its net book value.
How the scope of We challenged managements assessments as to whether indicators of impairment or impairment reversal exist our audit responded for the Groups CGUs and development projects through critical assessment of developments in the wider to the risk economic environment and the performance of each of the CGUs in the year and through meetings with local and Group operational management.
Where such indicators were identified, and for the CGUs with goodwill allocated to them, we obtained the valuation models used to determine the recoverable amount of those CGUs.
We challenged the assumptions underpinning the models, including the discount rate used, the expected commodity prices, capital and operating expenditure forecasts, production profiles and foreign exchange rates.
This was achieved by comparison to third party documentation, the review of reserves and resources reports, consultation with Deloitte specialists to assess critically the discount rate applied, discussions with operational management and sensitivity analyses.
We assessed whether assumptions had been determined and applied consistently across the Group.
We assessed managements ability to forecast accurately by comparing their 2016 forecasts to 2016 actual financial results.
Key observations No impairments or impairment reversals were identified in the current year.
104 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Notes 3 and 18 and Page 80 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Risk description At 31 December 2016, the Group held US$140 million in respect of exploration and evaluation E&E assets.
Recoverability is dependent on the expected future success of exploration activities.
E&E expenditure Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: is capitalised once it has been determined that the mineral property can be developed economically.
Materiality US$21 million 2015: US$16 million.
The evaluation of each assets future prospects requires significant judgement.
Basis for determining 4% 2015: 4% of Profit before tax, adjusted for net foreign exchange gains and losses.
How the scope of We reviewed and challenged managements assumptions used in assessing the recoverability of the Groups materiality our audit responded exploration and evaluation assets.
We assessed the recoverability of assets by meeting with operational to the risk management to discuss material E&E assets, reviewing drilling and other testing results in the year and Rationale for the Pre-tax profit is adjusted to exclude net foreign exchange gain and losses recognised which would, if included, confirming future development plans.
We reviewed licence conditions to ensure there were no breaches benchmark applied significantly distort materiality year on year.
We reviewed Board-approved budgets for 2017 to check that specific exploration project spend In our professional judgement, we believe that the use of an adjusted profit measure is appropriate as the was committed and we performed detailed testing to assess the validity of costs capitalised in the year.
amounts which have been excluded from the Groups profit before tax which would otherwise distort the Key observations No additional impairments of E&E assets were identified from the work performed.
level of materiality determined and are not reflective of the Groups trading activity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$420,000 2015: US$320,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report Valuation and Existence metal inventories to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Note 21 and Page 80 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Risk description At 31 December 2016 the Group held US$395 million in respect of metal inventories on the Balance Sheet.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement across the Group.
Our audit scope focused primarily on nine key reportable segments Managements determination of the contained metal levels in ore stockpiles and work in progress involves the Voro, Okhotsk, Dukat, Omolon, Varvara, Amursk Albazino, Mayskoye, Kyzyl and Armenia and the corporate entities such that 100% of use of sampling techniques and related valuation models.
revenue 2015: 100% and 97% of total assets 2015: 97% were subject to a full scope audit, which is consistent with last years approach.
The assessment of the recoverability of metal inventories requires judgement both in the calculation of expected costs to process and refine ore stock piles to produce concentrate or dor for sale, and in estimating future At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there prices to be realised on sale.
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
How the scope of We tested the existence of metal inventories through attending inventory counts performed by managements The group audit team was involved in the work of the component auditors at all stages of the audit process.
The signing partner and senior our audit responded experts and assessing the controls surrounding measuring the net realisable value of the inventory at a sample to the risk of operating locations and performing roll forward testing from the count dates through to year end by testing members of the Group engagement team visited the head office in St. Petersburg on multiple occasions in the year and continued to follow managements metal inventory models.
We assessed managements experts methodology, expertise a programme of regular planned visits to the Groups other business units.
The Group audit team directed and reviewed in detail the work and objectivity.
performed on significant risks by the component auditors.
We tested the recoverability of metal inventories through the recalculation of projected net realisable values Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual component, which were between US$10.5 million and based on expected commodity prices which were consistent with prices used in the Groups property, plant US$18.9 million 2015: US$8.0 million and US$10.4 million.
and equipment and goodwill impairment calculations and costs to complete.
We also performed substantive analytical procedures on managements inventory costing calculations.
We tested inventories for obsolescence by reviewing managements strategic mine plans and assessing whether there is appropriate provisioning in place, in particular where stockpiles are no longer expected to be used.
Key observations No additional write-downs of metal inventories were identified from the work performed.
Accounting for and valuation of acquisitions GROUP REVENUE TOTAL ASSETS % % Note 4 and Page 80 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report Risk description The appropriate accounting treatment of acquisitions which have completed during 2016 Kapan in Armenia for US$38 million and Komar in Kazakhstan for US$120 million is a key judgement, specifically in respect of determining whether each of the acquisitions is a business combination or an asset acquisition, and estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration.
The key judgements and inputs to determination of the fair value of the deferred contingent consideration include Full audit scope 100 Full audit scope 97 expected commodity prices, production profiles and the discount rates applied.
Specified audit procedures 0 Specified audit procedures 3 How the scope of We challenged managements assessment of whether the acquisitions meet the definition of a business under our audit responded IFRS 3 Business combinations.
to the risk We challenged managements key assumptions underpinning the contingent consideration liability models through critical assessment of key inputs within the model.
On Komar, we involved our internal valuation specialists to test the output of the Monte-Carlo model used.
Key observations We are satisfied that both acquisitions had been accounted for appropriately.
We found that the assumptions used by management in the valuation of the deferred contingent consideration were reasonable.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
106 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT MEMBERS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC CONTINUED MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Year ended 31 December 31 December Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 2016 2015 Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report Notes US$m US$m in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Revenue 6 1,583 1,441 proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or proper returns adequate Cost of sales 7 846 779 for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Gross profit 737 662 the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
General, administrative and selling expenses 11 120 127 Corporate Governance Statement Other operating expenses 12 36 51 Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report Share of loss of associates and joint ventures 20 4 relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Operating profit 581 480 Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Gain on disposal of subsidiary 4 1 Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if in our opinion We confirm that we have Net foreign exchange gains losses 65 133 information in the Annual Report is: not identified any such Change in fair value of contingent consideration liability 28 22 4 inconsistencies or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or misleading statements.
Finance income 3 5 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group Finance costs 15 63 81 acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Profit before income tax 564 276 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our Income tax expense 16 169 55 knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, Profit for the financial year 395 221 balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we Profit for the year attributable to: communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Equity shareholders of the Parent 395 221 OTHER MATTER 395 221 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
Year ended RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR 31 December 31 December As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 2016 2015 US$ US$ statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Profit per share Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are Basic 30 0.93 0.52 effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and Diluted 30 0.93 0.52 independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our Year ended audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an 31 December 31 December auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 2016 2015 31 December 31 December than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
cents cents 2016 2015 per share per share US$m US$m SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Final dividend proposed in relation to the year Note 17 18 13 77 56 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Interim dividend Note 17 9 8 38 34 that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Special dividend Note 17 15 30 64 127 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
179 217 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Leigh FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor London, UK 14 March 2017 108 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 109 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 31 December 31 December Year ended 2016 2015 31 December 31 December Notes US$m US$m 2016 2015 Assets US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 18 1,805 1,360 Profit for the financial year 395 221 Goodwill 19 17 14 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 25 2 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 280 582 Non-current loans and receivables 10 13 Currency exchange differences on intercompany loans forming part of net investment in foreign operations, net of income tax 56 58 Deferred tax asset 16 38 57 Total comprehensive income loss for the financial year 619 419 Non-current inventories 21 113 99 Total non-current assets 2,008 1,545 Year ended Current inventories 21 493 353 31 December 31 December Current VAT receivable 61 60 2016 2015 US$m US$m Trade and other receivables 22 70 39 Total comprehensive income loss for the financial year attributable to: Prepayments to suppliers 31 25 Equity Shareholders of the Parent 619 419 Income tax prepaid 18 8 619 419 Cash and cash equivalents 23 48 52 Total current assets 721 537 Total assets 2,729 2,082 Liabilities and shareholders equity Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 26 133 77 Current borrowings 24 98 287 Income tax payable 8 22 Other taxes payable 34 32 Current portion of contingent consideration liability 28 14 2 Total current liabilities 287 420 Non-current borrowings 24 1,280 1,063 Contingent consideration liability 28 62 24 Deferred tax liability 16 78 50 Environmental obligations 25 37 33 Other non-current liabilities 4 5 Total non-current liabilities 1,461 1,175 Total liabilities 1,748 1,595 NET ASSETS 981 487 Stated capital account 30 2,010 1,969 Share-based compensation reserve 31 12 6 Translation reserve 1,241 1,465 Retained earnings accumulated loss 200 23 Total equity 981 487 Notes on pages 114 to 157 form part of these financial statements.
These financial statements are approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Vitaly Nesis Bobby Godsell Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors 110 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 111 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Number Year ended of Polymetal 31 December 31 December International Stated Share-based Share 2016 2015 shares capital compensation Translation purchase Retained Total Notes US$m US$m Notes outstanding account reserve reserve obligation earnings equity Net cash generated by operating activities 33 530 491 Balance at 1 January 2015 420,819,943 1,939 2 825 219 29 868 Cash flows from investing activities Profit for the financial year 221 221 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 18 271 205 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 640 640 Net cash outflow on business combinations 4 107 Share based compensation 31 4 4 Acquisition of JV 20 21 7 Shares allotted to employees 31 36,089 Kyzyl put option exercise 4 68 Issue of shares to acquire Loans advanced, net 2 22 non-controlling interest 30 1,746,692 13 13 Other investing activities 2 Issue of shares in exchange Net cash used in investing activities 401 300 for asset acquisitions 4 1,618,154 13 13 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of shares to acquire Borrowings obtained 24 1,436 723 share in joint venture 4 429,260 4 4 Repayments of borrowings 24 1,410 696 Share purchase obligation exercise 4 219 14 233 Dividends paid 17 158 300 Dividends 17 216 216 Contingent consideration payment 28 2 1 Balance at 31 December 2015 424,650,138 1,969 6 1,465 23 487 Net cash used in by financing activities 134 274 Profit for the financial year 395 395 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 5 83 Other comprehensive income, Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 23 52 157 net of income tax 224 224 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1 22 Share based compensation 31 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 23 48 52 Shares allotted to employees 31 110,850 1 1 Issue of shares to acquire non-controlling interest 30 898,875 14 14 Issue of shares in exchange for asset acquisitions 4 1,120,690 11 11 Issue of shares for business acquisition 4 1,481,785 15 15 Dividends 17 158 158 Balance at 31 December 2016 428,262,338 2,010 12 1,241 200 981 112 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AMENDED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE ENTITY 1.
GENERAL The following new accounting pronouncements which became effective in the current reporting period: CORPORATE INFORMATION Polymetal Group the Group is a leading gold and silver mining group, operating in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia.
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations.
The amendments to IFRS 11 provide guidance on how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation in which the activities constitute a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Polymetal International plc the Company is the ultimate parent entity of Polymetal Group.
The Company was incorporated in 2010 as Combination and state that the relevant principles on accounting for business combinations in IFRS 3 and other standards should be a public limited company under Companies Jersey Law 1991 and has its place of business in Cyprus.
Its shares are traded on the London applied.
The same requirements should be applied to the formation of a joint operation if and only if an existing business is contributed and Moscow stock exchanges.
to the joint operation by one of the parties that participate in the joint venture.
A joint operator is also required to disclose the relevant information required by IFRS 3 and other standards for business combinations.
Entities should apply the amendments prospectively SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES to acquisitions of interest in joint operations occurring from the beginning of annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
As at 31 December 2016 the Company held the following significant mining and production subsidiaries: The Group has determined that amendments to IFRS 11 do not impact its consolidated financial statements as it does not have any Effective interest held, % arrangements considered joint operations.
31 December 31 December Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure.
Initiative provides guidance on the use of judgement in presenting Name of subsidiary Deposits Country of incorporation 2016 2015 financial statement information, including: the application of materiality: order of notes: use of subtotals: accounting policy referencing and JSC Gold of Northern Urals Voro Russia 100 100 disaggregation of financial and non-financial information.
Amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company Avlayakan Russia 100 100 The Group has determined that amendments to IAS 1 do not impact its consolidated financial statements.
Svetloye LLC Svetloye Russia 100 100 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE JSC Magadan Silver Dukat Russia 100 100 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS Lunnoye 15, which covers principles that an entity shall apply to report information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing, Arylakh and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
Application of the standard is mandatory for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with earlier application permitted.
The Group is in the process of determining Goltsovoye the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements with the primary focus being understanding those sales contracts where Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Mayskoye Russia 100 100 the timing and amount of revenue recognised could differ under IFRS 15, which may occur for example if contracts with customers Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Birkachan Russia 100 100 incorporate performance obligations not currently recognised separately, or where such contracts incorporate variable consideration.
As the Groups revenue is predominantly derived from arrangements in which the transfer of risks and rewards coincides with the fulfilment Tsokol of performance obligations, the timing and amount of revenue recognised is unlikely to be materially affected for the majority of sales.
Dalneye Oroch IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and permits early adoption.
IFRS 9 provides a revised model for Sopka Kvartsevaya recognition, measurement and impairment of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 also includes a substantially reformed approach to hedge Olcha accounting.
The Group is in the process of determining the impact of IFRS 9 on its consolidated financial statements and does not Albazino Resources Ltd Albazino Russia 100 100 expect it to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC N A Russia 100 100 IFRS 16 Leases.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, and permits early adoption.
IFRS 16 JSC Varvarinskoye Varvara Kazakhstan 100 100 replaces the following standards and interpretations: IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease.
Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP Bakyrchik Kazakhstan 100 100 The new standard provides a single lessee accounting model for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 applies to all leases including subleases and requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases, unless the lease term JSC Inter Gold Capital Bolshevik Kazakhstan 100 100 is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance.
The Group is in JSC Komarovskoye Mining Company Komar Kazakhstan 100 the process of determining the impact of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial statements and does not expect it to have a material impact Kapan MPC CJSC Kapan Armenia 100 on its consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Joint Ventures: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor GOING CONCERN and its Associate or Joint Venture remove an inconsistency between the two standards on the accounting treatment for gains and losses In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, its arising on the sale or contribution of assets by an investor to its associate or joint venture.
Following the amendment, such gains and losses borrowings and other available credit facilities, and its forecast compliance with covenants on those borrowings and its capital expenditure may only be recognised to the extent of the unrelated investors interest, except where the transaction involves assets that constitute a commitments and plans.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group held US$48 million of cash and had net debt of US$1,330 million.
The Group does not expect it to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
undrawn facilities of US$998 million, of which US$873 million are considered committed.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based payment: Classification and Measurement of Share-Based Payment transactions.
On 20 June 2016, The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading the International Accounting Standards Board IASB published final amendments to IFRS 2 that clarify the classification and measurement performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months from the date of share-based payment transactions.
IASB has now added guidance on accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions of this report without material uncertainty and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial that include a performance condition, classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement features and accounting for statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. modifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled.
Amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is in the process of determining the impact of amendments to IFRS 2 on its consolidated While assessing the Groups longer-term viability, the Board confirms that taking into account the Groups current position and based upon financial statements.
the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and stress-testing based assessment of Groups prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019.
Please refer to Longer-term viability statement on page 100 of this Annual Report.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION The Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are measured at fair value as of end of the reporting period and share-based payments which are recognised at fair value as of measurement date.
The following accounting policies have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
114 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED GOODWILL AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and SUBSIDIARIES the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, from the date that of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
control effectively commenced until the date that control effectively ceased.
Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which by the Group.
goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce All intra-group balances, transactions and any unrealised profits or losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying on consolidation.
amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Changes to the Groups ownership interests that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the change in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value ACQUISITION OF MINING LICENCES of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination and, accordingly, the transaction is accounted for When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated as the difference between 1 the aggregated fair as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
Where asset acquisition is achieved in stages net assets value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and 2 the previous carrying amount of the assets including acquired are accounted for sum of cost of the original interest acquired and the cost of additional interest acquired.
goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES BUSINESS COMBINATIONS An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint arrangement.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination.
When acquiring Significant influence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but does not extend new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute an integrated to a control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in set of activities, whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a market participant, and thus the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance provided in the standard.
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Transaction costs incurred in sharing control.
connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition may include an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather arrangement.
Contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a joint operation, the Group recognises: its share of assets and in a business combination.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition retrospectively with liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the joint the corresponding adjustment against goodwill where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
Measurement period adjustments operation: and its share of expenses.
are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The measurement period may not exceed one year from the effective date of the acquisition.
The subsequent A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement and accounting for contingent consideration that does not qualify for as a measurement period adjustment is based on how the contingent is accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not subsequently remeasured.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent When entering in a new joint arrangement, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the parties that have joint control over Liabilities and Contingent Assets or IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement with the corresponding amount being the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement joint operation or rights to the net recognised in profit or loss.
assets of the arrangement joint venture, using the guidance provided in the standard.
When a joint arrangement has been structured through a separate vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement The identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits, respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest was disposed of.
116 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED EQUITY METHOD OF ACCOUNTING Russian Armenian Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and Rouble U. S. Kazakh Tenge Dram U. S. Dollar U. S. Dollar Dollar adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the investee.
When the Groups share of the losses of an associate or a joint venture exceeds the Groups interest in that entity, the Group ceases to recognise its share 31 December 2015 of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made Year end 72.9 339 484 payments on behalf of the investee.
Average for: Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities January 61.9 184 475 of an investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Any February 64.7 185 478 excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, March 60.3 185 478 after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
April 52.9 186 474 The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the Groups May 50.6 186 480 investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill with an indefinite useful life, June 54.5 186 475 the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 as a single cash generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount the higher of value in use and fair value less July 57.1 187 477 costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal August 65.2 207 480 of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36.
September 66.8 258 481 When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are recognised in October 63.1 275 473 the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or the joint venture that are not related November 65.0 303 480 to the Group.
December 69.7 323 483 FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY 31 December 2016 The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it Year end 60.7 333 484 operates.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The functional currency of the Groups entities Average for: located and operating in Kazakhstan JSC Varvarinskoye, Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP, JSC Inter Gold Capital, JSC Komarovskoye Mining Company is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located and operating in Armenia Kapan MPC CJSC January 76.3 362 486 is the Armenian Dram AMD.
The functional currency of the parent company Polymetal International plc and its intermediate holding February 77.2 359 494 companies is U. S. Dollar.
March 70.5 345 487 April 66.7 337 481 The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in U. S. Dollars US$, as management believes it is a more convenient presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as it is a common presentation May 65.7 333 478 currency in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional currencies June 65.3 337 478 to the presentation currency is performed as follows: July 64.3 341 477 all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: August 64.9 344 475 all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that September 64.6 339 474 are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: October 62.7 332 475 resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented as movements relating to the effect November 64.4 339 478 of translation to the Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve in equity: and December 62.2 334 483 in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented are translated using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash flows in the period are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
The Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Armenia, accordingly, any translation of Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram denominated assets and liabilities into U. S. On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss Dollar for the purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future realise of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that or settle in U. S. Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest in associates or jointly controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
118 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered an FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared to the estimated recoverable amount Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing of the asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date on which the most recent Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The carrying amounts of all the cash-generating units fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising from changes in exchange rates are recognised in the consolidated income are assessed against their recoverable amounts determined based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on statement.
Exchange differences generated by monetary items that forms part of the intragroup net investment in the foreign operation the application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF using post-tax cash flows.
The DCF method is attributable to the development are recognised in the consolidated financial statements within foreign currency translation reserve.
of proved and probable reserves and certain resources where a relevant resource-to-reserve conversion ratio can be reasonably applied.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount MINING ASSETS of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately Mining assets include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are depreciated to their residual in the consolidated income statement.
values using the unit-of-production method based on proven and probable ore reserves according to the JORC Code, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proven and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
Depreciation is charged Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised on new mining ventures from the date that the mining asset is capable of commercial production Note 5.
In respect of those mining assets estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original carrying amount whose useful lives are expected to be less than the life of the mine, depreciation over the period of the assets useful life is applied.
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Impairment loss may be subsequently reversed if there has been a significant change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss Mineral rights for the assets under development are included within Exploration and development.
When a production phase is started, was recognised.
mineral rights are transferred into Mining assets and are depreciated as described below.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
CAPITAL  Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets INVENTORIES are ready for their intended use.
METAL INVENTORIES Inventories including refined metals, metals in concentrate and in process, dor and ore stockpiles are stated at the lower of production cost EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ASSETS or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures incurred directly or indirectly in bringing Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, geological and similar types of costs, are capitalised into inventories to their existing condition and location.
Work in-process, metal concentrate, and dor and refined metal are valued at the average exploration assets if management concludes that future economic benefits are likely to be realised based on current internal assessment total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production i. e. the costs are allocated proportionally to unified metal where unified of exploration results and identified mineral resources.
metal is calculated based on prevailing market metal prices.
Ore stockpiles are valued at the average cost of mining that ore. Where ore stockpiles and work in-process are not expected to be processed within 12 months, those inventories are classified as non-current.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures are transferred to development assets when commercially-viable reserves are identified, so that the entity first establishes proved and probable reserves in accordance with JORC Code and respective mining plan and model are Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on forward metal prices for inventories which are expected prepared and approved.
At the time of reclassification exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment based on to be realised within 12 months, and the flat long-term metal prices non-current inventories, less estimated costs to complete production and the economic models prepared.
The costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping costs, are capitalised CONSUMABLES AND SPARE PARTS as a part of mining assets when these costs are incurred.
Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average moving cost.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classified as a long-term asset in NON-MINING ASSETS the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts of an item and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
of property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated separately.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Estimated useful lives are as set out below: Machinery and equipment 5-20 years Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added Transportation and other assets 3-10 years to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the assets FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS FVTPL carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
A financial instrument other than a financial instrument held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: STRIPPING COSTS such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or During the production phase of a mine when the benefit from the stripping activity is the improved access to a component of the ore body in the financial instrument forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance future periods, the stripping costs in excess of the average ore to waste ratio for the life of mine of that component are recognised as a nonis evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information current asset.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit-of-production method over about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body made accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
ESTIMATED ORE RESERVES Estimated proven and probable ore reserves reflect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally recovered in the future from Financial instruments at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with JORC Code.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 28.
LEASES OPERATING LEASES Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
120 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely EFFECTIVE INTEREST RATE METHOD related to those of the host contracts and the hybrid contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
Further details of derivative financial instruments The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest income or are disclosed in Note 28. expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts BORROWING COSTS through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are FINANCIAL ASSETS substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: FVTPL, available for sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted recognition.
No financial instruments have been classified as available for sale and FVTPL.
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is determined CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Financial assets PROVISIONS are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For equity investments classified as the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date, For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation: or An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash flows, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised in the consolidated income For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets carrying statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line and the unwinding of the discount amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
on the provision in the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and circumstances.
through the consolidated income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased obligations arising from additional does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free interest rate.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that reporting the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation and retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised TAXATION borrowing for the proceeds received.
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed in accordance with the laws of countries where the Group operates.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CURRENT TAX Other financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
122 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 123
