Key performance indicators Measuring our progress The measurement of progress in delivering our strategy is essential.
Our KPIs are designed speci cally to align to our five strategic pillars and to focus management conversations on future outcomes and performance improvements.
KPIs help us map out speci cally how we are doing against our strategy.
Customers Winning in Revolutionise for life the market business Renewal rate Adoption of Sage One Adoption of Sage X3 Annualised Soft ware Paying subscriptions Revenue growth Subscription Base ASB 86% 313,000 18% 511m FY15: 84% FY15: 173,000 FY15: 11% FY15: 381m 14 15 16 14 15 16 14 15 16 14 15 16 Description: Description: Performance: Description: If we are successful in delighting We use our suite of cloud Sage One paying subscriptions ASB is the leading indicator for customers with technology and accounting productsto att ract have continued to increase how our move to subscription is service levels, they will respond new customers.
Our KPI throughout the year, driving progressing.
Growth is supported when it is time to renew their considers the revenue generated FY16subscriptions up to 313,000. by our latest technology updates contracts.
Calculated as the from cloud products and includes X3adoption has continued to which are delivered regularly on number of contracts successfully the number of paying progress with 18% revenue subscription.
ASB is the amount renewed in the year as a subscriptions at the end of the growth for the year.
of organic soft ware subscription percentage of those that year for Sage One all editions revenue in the last month of the were due forrenewal.
Performance: Performance: Our renewal rate has been Our progressive move to consistently high at over 80% subscription continues to gain for a number of years, which is momentum with growth in ASB testament to the value that of 34% for the year to 511m.
Soft ware subscription drives even closer relationships and the continuation of our transition to subscription has helped to drive our renewal rate up to 86%.
32 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 83% 84% 86% 86,000 173,000 313,000 7% 11% 18% 297m 381m 511m See how our underlying EPS growth KPI links to remuneration on page 91 Capacity One Sage Financial for growth measures General and administrative Sage Foundation Days Underlying Underlying expense ratio G&A% EPS growth Cash Conversion 16% 13,000 9.0% 100% FY15: 19% FY15: 12.6% FY15: 106% 14 15 16 14 15 16 14 15 16 Description: Description: Description: Description: Our G&A expense for the period Doing business the right way is Underlying basic EPS is fide ned as Underlying cash conversion expressed as a percentage of our important at Sage see more at underlying pro t aft er tax divided is underlying cash ow from total revenue for theperiod.
Giving back to the by the weighted average number operating activities divided community through Sage of ordinary shares in issue during by underlying operating pro t. Performance: Foundation allows our colleagues the year, excluding those held as Underlying cash ow from Throughout our tovolunteer to work with treasury shares.
Underlying pro t operating activities is statutory transformationwe have been charitable causes and we aft er tax is fide ned as pro t cash ow from operating moving towards a single, encourage every colleague to att ributable to owners of activities less net capital unitedoperating model.
In FY16 take up to five Sage Foundation the parentexcluding: expenditure and adjusted for we have reduced our G&A cost as days per year.
movements on foreign exchange Recurring items including a proportion of revenue by over 2%.
rates and non-recurring amortisation of acquired This is the first year we have had cashitems.
intangible assets, acquisition aquantitative measure of one related items, fair value Sage, which recognises the Performance: adjustments, foreign currency importance of Sage Foundation The business remains highly cash movements on intercompany within our organisation.
generative with strong underlying balances and imputedinterest.
Performance: Non-recurring items that In the first year of applying this management judge to be KPI we have donated 13,000 days one-o ornon-operational to Sage Foundation.
All of these adjustments are net of tax.
The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year gures.
For a reconciliation of underlying basic EPS to statutory basic EPS, turn to page 132.
Performance: Underlying EPS growth primarily re ects increased operating pro t and a lower e ective tax rate.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 19% 19% 16% 8.2% 12.6% 9.0% 101% 106% 100% Our products Product portfolio management E ectively managing our product portfolio generates capacity for growth andfocuses our investment to truly revolutionise business.
Framework management Winning in the market cloud accounting products Growth products Our cloud accounting products are our primary tool to att ract We retain customers for life with our on-premise and hybrid products, newcustomers.
and win in the market with our cloud accounting products.
We invest all of our sales and marketing S&M spend and almost all of We now have a suite of universal, cloud-based products that are disrupting the market with revolutionary features, allowing the customer our research and development R&D spend on these products.
Product development is increasingly based on customer feedback and requests, to run their business from the palm of their hand.
Our cloud products are suitable for sole traders through to enterprise businesses.
and the best features from our on-premise products are applied to our cloud solutions and vice versa.
This ensures we have the most competitive suite of products to retain and grow our market share.
Heritage products Heritage products are those that are no longer driving signi cant growth.
Customers for life On-premise and hybrid accounting solutions We will not end-of-life any product which has satis ed on-plan customers, Our on-premise and hybrid solutions have been developed over years, but R&D investment will be limited to minor enhancements, bug xes delivering functionally-rich products tailored to the regulatory and building migration tools.
Over time, we expect our customers to framework of each country.
migrate to a growth product to obtain enhanced functionality.
There is no pressure to do this our aim is to protect and support our customer base We continue to leverage the power and productivity of our on-premise and be there as a trusted partner throughout their business life.
However, solutions to combine with the exibility and automation of cloud ourinvestment in migration tools enables the customer to experience technology, producing hybrid solutions that give customers the best aseamless move to the next product when they are ready to do so.
The evolution of our products Delivering for our customers Sage 50 Accounts with Drive is the best Sage 50 soft ware Ive found.
It helps businesses grow Sage 50, a rm customer favourite, has continued to develop over really fast.
This growth product, which is available in many of our geographies, constantly evolves to incorporate the Adam Sopher, Joe & Sephs Popcorn Co-Founder latest features and technology.
Traditionally a desktop solution, Sage 50 in now available both on-premise and in the cloud Adam uses Sage 50 with Sage Drive on subscription enabling exibility without compromising functionality.
which updates via the cloud so he can access the latest See more on how the product is developing in the UK at technology and remain compliant as his business scales.
co. uk roadmap 34 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cloud accounting products from start-up, through scale-up to enterprise Our cloud accounting productideally suited to start-ups and businesses up to around 10 employees in size.
Everything thatSage One does as a product is designed to make customers lives easier, for example connecting to bank accounts and Start-up automatically reconciling records to make tracking expenses and income easy.
Intuitively designed with no training required, Sage One can be used on laptop, tablet or mobile.
The Sage One Accounting mobile app lets users create and send invoices and access their data from anywhere with an internetconnection.
24 7 support is provided and the product complies with local regulations as standard.
Updates, which are principally customer demand driven, are made live every 14 days.
Makes accounting and invoicing simple for start-ups Our cloud accounting productideally suited to Small & Medium Businesses with around 10 to 200 employees.
Sage Live enables one virtual o ce where business owners, their accountant and employees can all contribute to the business.
Scale-up Sage Live is a revolutionary product designed for real-time processing and with social collaboration and mobile access in mind: users can see and enter information in real-time on their smartphones, watches and connected devices.
Customers can personalise the soft ware to focus on what really matt ers in the business and eliminate low-value tasks.
Developed in partnership with Salesforce, Sage Live is built on the Salesforce1 platform, which enables businesses to run completely in the cloud, integrating seamlessly with Salesforce CRM tools and a multitude of other third-party applications.
The start of a real-time, social accounting revolution for Small & Medium Businesses Our business management cloud accountingsolution ideally suited to larger businesses.
Unlike traditional ERP systems, Sage X3 simpli es business processes with rich functionality, o ering multi-currency, multi-company, multi-language and Enterprise multi-legislation support.
X3 can be deployed either on-premise or in the cloud.
Either solution o ers the same rich functionality to maximise customer choice and allow the customer to select the right solution for their business.
Taking the complexity out of running mid-sized and larger businesses The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35 s t s e e h k e t n r f i a i w l s o m r u r o e b g f e g h e s r a r t o s S Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risk During 2016 we moved into the execution phase of our business transformation, bringing together all parts of the business as a connected whole One Sage.
Our external risk landscape continues to change as both the business and marketplace evolve.
To respond to the pace of change, and need for greater visibility across our business, wecontinued to enhance our risk management during 2016 and this remains a major focus for theBoard.
During the year, we havemaintained afocus on driving risk consideration in our decision making.
We continue to create appropriate and scalable processes and practices, enabling us to grow the business the right way.
We have further developed our three lines of defence model to support this, including establishing a Sage Compliance function.
Principal risks Our risk management process and associated reporting activities continue to evolve.
The Directors and Global Risk Committ ee carried out a robust Strategic pillar Principal risk Strategic pillar assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Licensing model transition solvency or liquidity.
This assessment includes consideration ofany potential impact of the result of the UKs EU referendum upon our principal risks.
The Board continues to monitor the riskenvironment, and reviews the appropriateness of the Market intelligence principal risks to the business.
These are formally reviewed at thebeginning of each year in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committ ee, and continue to be proactively managed by Competitive positioning executive sponsors and risk owners, supported by Sages Risk and product development function.
On an ongoing basis, we also consider the local relevance of the principal risks, and additionally identify andescalatelocal risks as appropriate.
Business model transition Principal risks are formally reported to the Global Risk Committ ee on a quarterly basis,  risks.
We manage risk in line with our risk management policy and approach, as Supporting control setout in Risk Management on page 42. environment Currently there are ten principal risks which we monitor and report against.
These risks are aligned to successful delivery of Information our strategy and mapped against the strategic pillars to which management and protection they relate, as set out opposite.
including cyber The principal risks, and associated appetite statements and Regulatory and legal metrics, are refreshed and updated on an ongoing basis during framework the year, and during 2016 enhancements included the introduction of capability metrics for each principal risk, recognising the importance of colleagues in managing risk.
Brand Wecontinually monitor the likelihood and potential impact associated with each principal risk, and no signi cant changes were observed in the current year.
Strategic partnerships To enhance monitoring and reinforce accountability, during the year we revised our principal risk dashboards to include successes, challenges and proposed actions to manage the risks and introduced regular meetings with the executive sponsors Third party reliance and risk owners.
A range of measures are in place to manage and mitigate our principal risks, while other activities are in the process of being developed or deployed.
These are detailed in the following table.
36 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e f i n n i y e m o t n g i i o t c n O t u i a s l n p u o n a v C i C e W R Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Licensing model transition Sage does not successfully Sage istransitioning from a perpetual An approved licensing model transition strategy is in place manage its transition to  licensing model.
A series of approved subscription revenue targets are fide ned, which subscription licensing against span multiple years and support successful and balanced delivery of In addition to providing additional value for fide ned timelines and targets our strategy customers, this transition assists with cash or appropriately adapt its Ongoing monitoring and review of the approved targets takes place at ow:o ers a platform for cross-selling: and customer approach.
country, regional and Group levels to proactively manage the licence lowers att rition rates, which in turn aids transition, and revenue targets Strategic alignment: revenueforecasting.
New products are being o ered on a subscription only basis, Customers for life It also provides regular customer engagement tosupport achievement of overall revenue targets and enhanced opportunities to develop Customer Business Centres CBCs are established in North America theserelationships.
and Europe to integrate digital marketing, sales and service operations The speed of transition needs to be balanced for customers using Soft ware as a Service SaaS, and support planned against any reduction in short-term revenues.
growth ambitions In progress: Additional CBCs are being created, to bett er manage ongoing customer relationships and the salescycle Market intelligence Sage fails to understand and Sage has previously operated as a federated set A Market and Competitive Intelligence team is established, anticipate changes in the of operating companies, using local fide nitions whichhasGroup responsibility for Market Intelligence external environment, and methodologies to capture market data.
Market intelligence surveys are undertaken, to identify market including customer needs, opportunities The alignment of federated activities allows emerging market trends, Brand health surveys are undertaken in order to understand consolidation of data across geographies competitor strategies and customerperception of the Sage brand and its products andproduct to provide a single Sage view, regulatory or legal enabling trends and white space An approved internal communications plan is delivered, to share requirements.
market intelligence to build brand awareness Strategic alignment: Market data is provided through a Market Data portal, allowing In order to develop a consolidated easeofaccess and improved analysis Customers for life understanding of its market and customer needs, Sage is developing its market In progress: intelligence capability, and aligning this Action to support the increasing awareness and quality of the withcompetitive positioning and product MarketData portal development activities.
Ongoing re nement and improvement of market data through Winning in the market feedback from the business Key Improving risk environment Static risk environment The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37
