STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
MARK E. VERNON Chairman Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Charles Berry was appointed to the Board Susan Brennan joined the Board Giles Kerr joined the Board on 2 September Mark E. Vernon joined the Board in April 2011. in March 2012 and became non-executive in January2016.
Giles became Chairman of the Audit Mark became Senior Independent Director, Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee in April 2014. when Andy Hamment retired from the Board External Appointments Committee on 27 April 2012. in April 2016.
She is the Executive Vice-President and the External Appointments External Appointments Chief Operations Officer of Bloom Energy.
He is Director of Finance of Oxford University External Appointments He is Chairman of The Weir Group PLC.
and is a non-executive director of BTG Plc, He is a Director of LiqTech International, Inc.
Previous Experience He retired from the board of Drax Group plc PayPoint plc and Adaptimmune Therapeutics 1 2 She served as VP of Manufacturing at Nissan Previous Experience in April 2015. plc: he was appointed to the board of North America, Inc. and as Director of global He was the Group Chief Executive of SpiraxAdaptimmune Therapeutics in November2016.
Previous Experience manufacturing at Ford, where she led a global Sarco Engineering plc until his retirement in He was an executive Director of Scottish business office for Ford's assembly, powertrain Previous Experience January 2014.
He has had a long career in Power plc from 1999 to 2005 and Chief and stamping plants.
Giles held a number of positions with the industrial engineering industry, serving Executive of its UK Operations between 2000 Amersham PLC within finance and corporate Qualifications previously as Group Vice-President of and 2005.
Prior to joining Scottish Power, he development, culminating in his role as Group Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, BSc in Microbiology.
was Group Development Director of Norwest Finance Director.
He was formerly a Partner Vice-President of Durco International and Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie General des with Arthur Andersen & Co. President of Valtek International, a global 4.
DEREK HARDING Eaux, and held management positions within Qualifications controls business.
Group Finance Director subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He is a former BA Hons in Economics and a Chartered Qualifications non-executive director and Chairman of Eaga Appointment to the Board Accountant.
plc, Thus Group plc and Drax Group PLC and Derek Harding joined the Board on 2September a former non-executive director of Impax 3 4 2013.
As previously announced, Derek will be 6.
DAVID SQUIRES Environmental Markets PLC and Securities leaving Senior to join Shop Direct: he will 8.
ANDREW BODENHAM Group Chief Executive Trust of Scotland plc.
remain in post until his successor is appointed, Group Company Secretary which is expected to be later this year.
Appointment to the Board Qualifications Andrew Bodenham joined as Group Company David Squires was appointed to the Board BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MSc Previous Experience Secretary in 2002.
He acts as Secretary to the on 1May 2015 and became Group Chief in Management.
He joined Senior from Wolseley plc, where Senior plc Board and its Committees and also Executive on 1 June 2015. he had worked for 11 years, most recently as sits on the Groups Treasury Committee and Finance Director of Wolseley UK.
Prior to this, Previous Experience the Executive Committee.
CELIA BAXTER he undertook a number of group roles including He has spent most of his working life in the Qualifications Independent non-executive Director Director of Group Strategy & Investor Relations Aerospace Industry, initially with Hughes LLB Hons and a Chartered Secretary.
Appointment to the Board and Head of Mergers & Acquisitions.
He Aircraft Company, then Marconi Electronic Celia Baxter joined the Board on 2 September qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Systems, BAE Systems plc and Eaton 2013 and became Chair of the Remuneration ANDY HAMMENT  in 1998, following Corporation.
He worked for Cobham plc in 5 6 Committee in December 2013.
Andy Hamment joined the Board in April 2011 which he fulfilled audit and transaction services 2004 and re-joined in 2009: he was Cobhams and was the Senior Independent Director from External Appointments roles in the UK and USA before joining Chief Operating Officer and President of its December 2013 until he retired from the Board She is a non-executive director of N. V. Bekeart Wolseley in 2002.
Mission Systems division when he left to take in April 2016.
She retired as the Director of Group HR up his appointment with Senior in 2015.
Qualifications of Bunzl plc in September 2016.
BSc Hons in Banking & Finance Qualifications Previous Experience and aChartered Accountant.
BA in Business Management Studies and Her early HR career was with Ford Motor a Member of the Chartered Institute of Company and KPMG.
She has held executive Purchasing Supply.
HR positions with Hays plc, Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Qualifications Doctor of Philosophy PhD and Member Membership and the attendance record of the full Board Meetings and its full Committee Meetings are shown in the table below: of Chartered Institute of Personnel 7 8 Main Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee & Development.
Chair Charles Berry Giles Kerr Charles Berry Celia Baxter Total number of meetings 7 4 2 3 Charles Berry 7 7 2 2 3 3 Celia Baxter 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 Susan Brennan 7 7 4 4 1 2 3 3 1 Andy Hamment 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Derek Harding 7 7 Giles Kerr 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 David Squires 7 7 Mark E. Vernon 7 7 3 4 2 2 3 3 1 Andy Hamment Senior Independent non-executive Director until he retired from the Board on 22 April 2016.
36 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1.
BINDI FOYLE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT See biography on page 37.
A Chartered Accountant, Bindi joined the Group HSE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee, although not in 2006 as the Group Financial Controller.
formally appointed as a Committee of the The HSE committee is also not formally In 2014, she was appointed Head of Investor Board, oversees the running of all Senior appointed as a Committee of the Board, 2.
DEREK HARDING Relations & Leadership Development and in Group operations.
but officially oversees all health, safety and See biography on page 37.
October 2016 became the Groups Director environmental matters across the Group.
The purpose of the Executive Committee of Investor Relations & Corporate is to assist the Group Chief Executive in the Communications.
Prior to joining Senior, Throughout 2016, the members of this 3.
LAUNIE FLEMING performance of his duties, including: committee were: David Squires Chairman she had held a number of finance positions A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for at Amersham plc and GE Healthcare.
of the committee, Mike Sheppard Chief around 19 years.
Launie joined the Executive the development and implementation 1 2 Executive of Flexonics, Jerry Goodwin Chief Committee upon his appointment as Chief of strategy, operational plans, policies, Executive of Aerospace Structures and Launie Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in procedures and budgets: 7.
DAVID BEAVAN Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid September 2008.
Prior to that appointment, David took up the role of Director of Business the monitoring of operating and financial Systems.
Mark Roden Group HSE & he had been Chief Executive of Senior Development & Strategy formerly the Head performance: Sustainability Director was appointed to the Aerospace SSP.
of Business Development in April 2014. the assessment and control of risk: Group and to the committee in September He joined the Group in 2004, when he was 2016: prior to Marks appointment, the Group the prioritisation and allocation of resources: appointed the Chief Executive of Senior 4.
JERRY GOODWIN HSE Adviser attended HSE committee and Aerospace BWT.
Prior to joining Senior, David A US citizen, he joined the Group in June 2007 meetings to provide interim HSE support the monitoring of competitive forces in each had general management experience within as the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace and advice during 2016.
The committee area of operation.
automotive and commercial aircraft 1st tier AMT.
He was appointed Chief Executive of met three times during the year.
The Committee is also responsible for the Prior to joining Senior, Jerry served as consideration of all other matters not specifically 3 4 Vice-President and General Manager at 8.
ANDREW BODENHAM reserved for consideration by the Board.
A report C & D Zodiac, a composites aerospace See biography on page 37. on the activities of the Executive Committee is manufacturingcompany.
provided to the Board by the Group Chief Executive at each Board meeting.
MIKE SHEPPARD The Committee is comprised of two members A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of A US citizen, he has worked for the Group of the Board, David Squires and Derek Harding, Personnel and Development, Jane has for over 30 years and is the Chief Executive of together with Launie Fleming Chief Executive considerable experience heading up HR Flexonics.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous of Aerospace Fluid Systems, Jerry Goodwin functions across a range of global geographies.
positions within the Group included operational Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, Mike She has worked in a number of different roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, David sectors including, technology, drug Pathway and Bartlett.
Beavan Director of Business Development & development, construction, and professional Strategy, Bindi Foyle Director of Investor services and, prior to joining Senior, was Group Relations & Corporate Communications, 5 6 HR Director at Pace plc.
Andrew Bodenham Group Company Secretary and Jane Johnston Group HR Director, who was appointed to the Group in May 2016.
Jerry Goodwin was the Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures until he left the Group on 31January 2017 and was succeeded by Joe Mockus as Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures on 1 February 2017.
7 8 9 38 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS As set out in the Annual Report & Accounts SHARE CAPITAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EMPLOYEES REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors present 2015, the Group undertook a formal tender AND POLICY The Company has one class of ordinary share, Note 20 contains disclosures on financial The Group promotes the dissemination of of its external audit during the first half of their Report and which carries no right to a fixed income.
relevant information, so that employees are The Directors Remuneration Policy was 2016.
The process began in March 2016 with Each share carries the right to vote at general kept regularly advised of Group and local approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
supplementary reports, a selected number of audit firms receiving an meetings of the Company.
There were no DIRECTORS operation developments.
Where appropriate, The Directors have proposed a small number invitation to tender.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups changes to the Companys issued share local briefing sessions are held concerning of amendments to the Policy and the updated Details of the Directors who served throughout together with the audited external Auditor from 2000 to 2016, was not capital in 2016. such matters as Group development, corporate Directors Remuneration Policy is to be put to the year can be found on pages 36 and 37. invited to tender due to the longevity of its Financial Statements ethics, health and safety, pension plans and shareholder vote at the AGM to be held on The Directors interests in the shares of the Shares in issue at appointment.
Following conclusion of the healthcare benefits.
The updated Directors Company are included in the Directors 1 January 2016 419,416,250 tender process, the Board recommends that for the year ended Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 55 Remuneration Report on page 67.
No Director KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups Senior plc Long-Term GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS to 60. has any interest in contracts with the Company 31December 2016.
Incentive Plan 0 external Auditor for the financial year or its subsidiary undertakings.
The Group has followed the reporting commencing 1 January 2017.
Resolutions The Annual Report on Remuneration Senior plc Savings-Related requirements on greenhouse gas emissions, ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW is also to be put to shareholder vote at to appoint the Companys Auditor and to Share Option Plan 0 The provisions of the UK Corporate contained in the Companies Act 2006 authorise the Directors to set the Auditors Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature the forthcoming AGM.
Governance Code require that all Directors Shares in issue at Strategic Report and Directors Report of the Groups operations and its principal remuneration will be proposed at the of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to 31December 2016 419,416,250 Regulations 2013: details of the Groups ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING forthcoming AGM.
activities are set out in the Strategic Report annual election by shareholders.
Celia Baxter, greenhouse gas emissions can be found on pages 1 to 19.
Its group undertakings are Further share capital details are given in Charles Berry, Susan Brennan, Giles Kerr, The Notice of Meeting describes the business By Order of the Board on page 33. shown on pages 120 to 122.
DavidSquires and Mark E. Vernon will all to be considered at the AGM to be held at Report includes details of the market overview: standfor re-election at the AGM in April 11.30 am on Friday 21 April 2017 at Glaziers Details of employee share plans are set out MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS Andrew Bodenham key growth drivers: Seniors business model: 2017.
DerekHarding is to step down from the Hall, 9 Montague Close, London Bridge, on pages 106 and 107.
The Company had been notified that the Group Company Secretary strategic objectives: risks and uncertainties: Board in 2017, as previously announced.
following shareholders were interested in 24 February 2017 key performance indicators and a summary There are no specific restrictions on the size Hamment retired from the Board in April 2016.
3%or more of the issued share capital of of the Groups 2016 performance.
of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS theCompany: BOARD DIVERSITY which are both governed by the general OWN SHARES ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS provisions of the Companys Articles of Senior remains committed to all aspects of % The Company purchased no ordinary shares Association and prevailing legislation.
The On 21 December 2015, the Group entered Board diversity including gender, experience, Standard Life Investments 9.53 of 10p each in the capital of the Company into a sale agreement to dispose of its Senior Directors are not aware of any agreements background and personal attributes and will Allianz Global Investors Germany 9.28 during the year.
At the end of the year, the between holders of the Companys shares Aerospace Composites business, which keep under review its balance and composition.
Henderson Global Investors 4.73 Directors had authority, under the shareholders was based in Wichita, Kansas.
The sale that may result in restrictions on the transfer The appointments of Celia Baxter to the Board Schroder Investment Management 4.13 resolutions dated 22 April 2016, to make of securities or on voting rights.
No person was completed on 16 February 2016. in 2013 and Susan Brennan in 2016 mean Legal & General Investment market purchases of the Companys shares has any special rights of control over the thatSenior now has increased female Management 4.09 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 42m, RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Companys share capital, and all issued representation on its Board.
which represented approximately 10% of Aberforth Partners 3.99 shares are fully paid.
The results for the year are shown in the the issued share capital of the Company.
BlackRock 3.83 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Consolidated Income Statement on page 76.
A resolution to renew this authority will With regard to the appointment and European Value Partners 3.19 Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions replacement of Directors, the Company is be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
An interim dividend of 1.95 pence per share Allianz Global Investors UK 3.13 for the benefit of the Directors were renewed governed by its Articles of Association, the UK 2015 1.84 pence has already been paid and by the Company during the year and remain AUDITOR Corporate Governance Code, the Companies the Directors recommend a 2016 final dividend So far as is known, no other shareholder had in force at the date of this Report.
The Articles Each of the persons who is a Director of of 4.62 pence per share 2015 4.36 pence.
a notifiable interest amounting to 3% or more may be amended by special resolution of the the Company at the date of approval of this The final dividend, if approved, will be payable of the issued share capital of the Company, and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT shareholders.
The powers of Directors are Annual Report confirms that so far as the on 26 May 2017 to shareholders on the register the Directors believe that the close company described in the Matters Reserved for the In 2016, the Group incurred 18.7m Director is aware, there is no relevant audit at the close of business on 28 April 2017.
This provisions of the Income and Corporation Senior plc Board, which may be found on the 2015 16.3m on research and development.
information of which the Companys Auditor would bring the total dividend for the year to Taxes Act 1988 as amended do not apply Companys website.
Each year, shareholder Product development and improving is unaware: 6.57 pence per share 2015 6.20 pence.
approval is sought to renew the Boards manufacturing techniques represent the and the Director has taken all steps that authority to allot relevant securities.
primary focus of the Groups research COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK he she ought to have taken as a Director in and development activities.
order to make himself herself aware of any There are also a number of other agreements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE relevant audit information and to establish that take effect, alter or terminate upon The statement of compliance with the POLITICAL DONATIONS that the Companys Auditor is aware of a change of control of the Company, such as provisions of the UK Corporate Governance No political donations were made by the Group that information.
commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council during the year.
property lease arrangements, and employee is set out on page 42.
This information is given and should be share plans.
None of these are considered to interpreted in accordance with the provisions be significant in terms of their likely impact of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
40 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board meets formally on a regular basis To enable the members of the Board and appointment.
Following conclusion of the As part of its internal control procedures, the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT tender process, the Board has recommended Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy that seven times in 2016 : in addition, there were its Committees to discharge their duties This Corporate Governance Report describes four meetings of the Audit Committee in effectively, the Group Company Secretary that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups is communicated throughout the Group.
This the manner in which the Company has applied external Auditor for the financial year policy provides employees with the opportunity 2016, together with six meetings of the seeks to ensure that all relevant information the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Remuneration Committee and two meetings is provided to the Directors in a timely manner, commencing 1 January 2017: this is to to report suspected unethical or illegal corporate Governance Code the Corporate be put to shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
There was in advance of meetings.
full attendance at every Board meeting and All reports of suspected unethical or illegal In 2016, an external evaluation of the Board and Communicating the Code of Conduct corporate conduct are independently Committee of the Board during the year.
Other STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE its Committees was commissioned: the formal and operating with integrity Committees are appointed by the Board to deal investigated and tracked from inception to WITH THE CORPORATE review was undertaken by Independent Audit Senior trains its employees on the resolution and, where necessary, actions are with treasury matters and specific issues such Limited.
The reviews findings showed that requirements of its Code of Conduct the Code GOVERNANCE CODE as acquisitions and disposals.
taken to rectify any weakness in systems that the Board operated effectively throughout upon induction, educating them on what they The Company has been in compliance with may have been identified.
These actions, and The minutes arising from all Committee the period and made some suggestions for its can and cannot do, and how to address any the Principles set out in Sections A to E of the overall integrity of the reporting system, meetings are made available to the Board.
The findings will be used ethical dilemmas they may face.
The Code the Corporate Governance Code throughout are subject to regular scrutiny by the Audit Procedures are in place to ensure that all to help support the development of the Board is reissued periodically to remind employees the year.
This process is also available to CHAIRMANS LETTER Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions as the Group continues with its strategy to of the required level of conduct.
The Groups third parties, such as suppliers and customers.
taken by the Board are based on the fullest, grow profitability, both organically and by ethical procedures and Code were reviewed I am pleased to present the Groups APPLICATION OF THE Subject to confidentiality considerations, the Corporate Governance Report for 2016 on up-to-date, available information.
Independent Audit Limited has in the light of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and outcome of each investigation is provided, PRINCIPLES OF THE CORPORATE executive Directors are encouraged to visit no other connection with the Company.
anti-bribery training was rolled out across the behalf of the Board.
This report is intended insofar as it is possible, to the complainant.
GOVERNANCE CODE to provide shareholders with a clear and the Groups operations to meet the local Group in 2012.
An enhanced Code of Conduct In addition, in 2016 the Chairman undertook The Principles of good corporate governance management teams and discuss any issues training programme was rolled out across Mark E. Vernon became the Senior meaningful explanation of what governance a review of the performance of individual are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code Independent Director, when Andy Hamment means to the Board and how this guides its that they may face.
At every Board meeting, the Group to all employees in 2016 and Directors: this process involved one-on-one under five areas.
These Principles have each there are reviews of operational, financial subsequently all new employees.
Also in 2016, retired from the Board in April 2016.
The results of the been reviewed by the Directors and are position provides employees and third parties governance is taken seriously across the and administrative matters.
Health, safety Preventing Bribery & Corruption training was evaluation process are used to improve Board commented upon as follows: and environmental performance is reviewed provided to employees who had outwardwith an alternative channel of communication Group: the Board sets the tone and takes performance and to determine the training to resolve issues if they have a concern that the lead on all governance matters.
by the Board on a regular basis: social and facing roles in management, finance, Section A: Leadership needs of the Directors.
Mark E. Vernon, in ethical issues, the agreement of budgets procurement, sales and human resources.
the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group The Board is structured under a non-executive consultation with the Directors, undertook I am pleased to confirm that the Board Finance Director have failed to resolve the and levels of insurance cover are reviewed Chairman, and currently includes two executive an evaluation of the Chairmans performance, The Board verifies compliance with the Code reviewed the requirements of the UK whenever appropriate.
issues, or where such contact with them is Directors and four independent non-executive and concluded that Charles Berry provided through its internal audit programme, ensuring Corporate Governance Code in 2016 not appropriate.
Directors, who were selected for appointment effective leadership of the Board.
Based on the that employees have received the mandatory There is a procedure by which all Directors and I confirm that the Company complies, because of their wide industrial and commercial can obtain independent professional advice results of the performance evaluation process, training and its businesses operate with integrity Managing external sales agents and will continue to do so.
In addition, the Company has an the Chairman considers that all members of at all times and in compliance with the Code.
The Board recognises the potential bribery at the Companys expense in furtherance Executive Committee, chaired by the Group of their duties, if required.
the Board, the Board collectively, and its and corruption risks posed by the markets in CHARLES BERRY Operating with integrity and in an ethical Chief Executive, comprising the executive Committees, continue to contribute effectively which the Group operates and, in particular, CHAIRMAN Section B: Effectiveness manner builds trust with customers and other Directors and other key executives within the to the running of the Company.
the use of third-party intermediaries it engages.
stakeholders and underpins the Boards The Companys Nominations Committee Group.
Details of the members of the Board All external sales agents and representatives leads the process for Board appointments, In compliance with the Corporate Governance strategic objectives.
and of the Executive Committee are working on behalf of Senior across the world and supervises management development Code, all Directors offered themselves for summarised on pages 36 to 39. are required to operate in compliance with the Human rights and succession planning.
It also makes re-election at the Companys 2016 AGM, with Code of Conduct.
Local management conducts The Group recognises the importance of the The Directors consider that an effective Board recommendations to the Board on all new the exception of Andy Hamment, who retired a due diligence and risk assessment process Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is in place which leads and controls the Group, Board appointments and re-appointments, from the Board following the conclusion of prior to engaging or re-appointing any sales adheres to the core principles and values with clear divisions of responsibility between further details of which can be found on page the 2016 AGM.
At the 2017 AGM, with the agents and issues them with the Code, defined within it.
The majority of countries the running of the Board and the running of 45.
The Committee, which consists entirely of exception of Derek Harding who is stepping ensuring that they understand, acknowledge in which Senior operates have their own laws the Groups businesses.
non-executive Directors, is chaired by Charles down from the Board in 2017, all Directors and accept its requirements.
In 2016, the banning child labour and promoting human Berry: its composition is shown on page 37, will again offer themselves for re-election.
The Board is responsible for strategic decisions Board updated the Code of Conduct and rights.
Senior monitors the ages of its and its Terms of Reference may be found on affecting the Group, including the setting of further improved the guidance it provided Section C: Accountability workforce across the world to ensure the Companys website.
The Board considers commercial strategy and the approval of Group to the Groups operations, giving detailed The Board determines the nature and extent compliance and identify any potential all non-executive Directors of the Company to budgets and financial statements.
It also information on how they should conduct of the significant actions necessary to achieve succession issues.
be independent, having taken into account a list approves significant financial and contractual due diligence and risk assess sales agents.
its strategic objectives and maintains a sound of relationships and circumstances that may Senior does not restrict any of its employees commitments made by the Group.
The Boards system of internal control.
The Companys appear relevant in determining independence, Managing gifts and hospitality in any of the countries in which it operates Terms of Reference more fully describe the Audit Committee reports to and, for certain The Board recognises that gifts and hospitality in accordance with the Corporate from joining a trade union if they wish to responsibilities of the Board and may be found matters, advises the Board of Directors.
have the potential to create a conflict of do so.
Senior also works closely with its on the Companys website.
Audit Committee Report on pages 46 to 50 interest, or the perception of a conflict of suppliers to ensure that they at least meet When appointing new Directors, the describes the role and activities of the Audit The Board delegates a certain number of interest.
As a result, there is a Group policy internationally recognised minimum Nominations Committee is fully cognisant Committee, together with the significant its responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, restricting the receiving and giving of gifts requirements for workers welfare and of the benefits of diversity: the Boards policy issues that it considered in relation to the Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environment and hospitality from, and to, third parties.
on diversity is described on page 45.
2016 Financial Statements and its relationship Committees.
The Group Chief Executive, This policy requires that all gifts and hospitality with the internal and external Auditors.
Reporting and investigating concerns together with the Executive Committee, is must be recorded.
The Head of Risk & Following a recruitment process in 2015, and whistle-blowing responsible for the implementation of the Assurance assesses compliance with the The Group undertook a formal tender of its Susan Brennan was appointed to the Board on The Company encourages Group employees decisions made by the Board and for the Groups gifts and hospitality policy during 1January 2016.
A summary of the Directors external audit during the first half of 2016, with to discuss any ethical concerns that they may day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations.
biographies appears on pages 36 and 37.
All a selected number of audit firms receiving an have with local management.
Directors receive induction upon joining the invitation to tender.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups Board and are encouraged to update their external Auditor from 2000 to 2016, was not knowledge and skills on a regular basis.
invited to tender due to the longevity of its 42 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 43
