Strategic report Financial review Accelerating our growthopportunities Our world-leading position in high performance polymer solutions reflects not only our capacity, but our technical excellence, materials know-how andIP, application development expertise and downstream focus.
Whilst we are mindful of new competitor A good finish: H2 core volumes up 9% capacity coming into the industry, pricing in the core business remains In line with expectations, Victrex delivered an improved performance broadly stable.
Excluding Consumer Electronics volumes and the in the second half and a good finish to 2016.
Our core business impact of foreign currency, our average selling price was 70 kg.
volumes which exclude Consumer Electronics were up 9% inthesecond half year, with growth in Transport markets and Looking towards 2017, with Consumer Electronics volumes expected amore stable performance in Energy.
to be lower, we anticipate that ASP on a full year basis will be slightly ahead of 2016 in constant currency.
The effect of more favourable Our overall performance was offset by a weaker first half and much currency movements as a result of pricing in local currency, will also lower year on year Consumer Electronics.
Volumes from the large be supportive for our reported ASP.
Consumer Electronics opportunity, on a full year basis, were down over 30%.
Margin reflects annualised new plant costs Group gross margin of 62.9% 2015: 63.8% was slightly down, Full year revenue and volumes withthe costs from our third polymer plant annualising this year Group revenue for 2016 was 252.3m, 4% below the prior year andreduced volumes through the plants resulting in a higher cost of 2015: 263.5m, with Group volumes down 6% to 3,952 tonnes manufacture per tonne.
For 2017, we have previously communicated 2015: 4,217 tonnes.
that operating leverage is expected to be weaker, witha higher cost of manufacture.
This reflects the anticipated impact from lower Consumer Profit before tax and EPS Electronics volumes, but with higher fixed costs from our new assets Group profit before tax of 100.3m was 6% lower than the prior now being incurred.
However, investing in capacity ahead of demand year 2015: 106.4m.
Basic earnings per share of 96.8p per share remains central to our strategy.
Our downstream strategy involves a move towards the production of selected semi-finished products and components and our cost ofmanufacture will start to increase to reflect this.
However, our Pricing marginally ahead, reflecting lower strategy also offers the opportunity to capture a higher value share Consumer Electronics of each application rather than just the material cost.
Remaining Our average selling price ASP of 63.80 kg was marginally ahead focused on growing absolute profits, rather than solely focusing of the prior year 2015: 62.50 kg, principally reflecting a similar onthe gross margin percentage, remains a priority for Victrex.
mix in our core business, but with a lower contribution from 2016 2015 Group revenue 252.3m 263.5m Group profit before tax 100.3m 106.4m Cash 64.0m 53.8m Earnings per share 96.8p 98.1p Dividend per share 46.82p 46.82p Financial statements Pages 73 to 98 Louisa Burdett Group Finance Director 12 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report 1 Operating performance Robust performance in core Industrial markets, offset by Consumer Electronics Our Industrial business, Victrex Polymer Solutions or VPS, remained robust in its core markets, but reflected the decline in Consumer Electronics over the course of the year.
Industrial revenue in total was 201.5m 2015: 213.0m, 5% down on the prior year.
Automotive and Aerospace saw good growth, with Transport volumes 9% ahead as build rates and increasing translations, as well as continued innovation, supported growth.
Energy & Other Industrial volumes were down 7% reflecting the tough industry environment, but Oil & Gas becoming more stable in the second half of the year.
Oil& Gas volumes comprise less than 10% of our total Group volume.
We successfully delivered meaningful revenue of over 1m from pipeand composite sales to the Magma Oil & Gas flexible subsea pipes opportunity this year, and have also seen several orders for Technical excellence intervention pipes.
From 2017 onwards, we will also focus some Our technical excellence ofour resources on a new sub-segment of Manufacturing & and application Engineering.
This includes industries such as fluid handling, process development know-how control and power systems.
Manufacturing & Engineering will report help differentiate Victrex.
within the Energy & Other Industrial segment.
Electronics volumes in total declined by 29% in 2016, driven mainly Currency more favourable for FY 2017: further by the large Consumer Electronics order.
Outside of Consumer benefit for FY 2018 Electronics, the remainder of the Electronics segment saw a steady As a UK-based global exporter, with over 97% of sales outside performance in Semiconductor.
Aptiv film reflected a slower ofthe UK, Victrex hedges currency up to twelve months in advance.
smartphone and mobile device market in the first half: however, For2017, given the considerable weakening of Sterling following the wedid see an improving trend towards the end of 2016.
The trend Brexit vote in June 2016, Victrex now expects currency will be more of thinner devices continues to be supportive for film over the favourable, with the potential benefit to our profits expected to be medium term, as well as its application in other markets, principally slightly ahead of our prior 14m15m guidance.
However, we Aerospace and emerging opportunities in Automotive.
anticipate that a proportion of any incremental benefit would be used For 2017, our assumptions for Consumer Electronics volumes are to support front-end growth investment, helping to drive adoption unchanged a significantly lower level of volumes and an expected ofour mega-programmes.
We also note the further implied benefit second half weighting.
This reflects supply chain dynamics and market from currency in 2018 based on current spot rates although demand, although we continue to directly engage with OEMs in this ourhedging programme for 2018 remains at an early stage.
market on both the existing opportunity and other differentiated application opportunities for the medium to longer term.
Accelerating long-term opportunities, M&Aandpartnerships We continue transitioning on our journey from polymer to parts, capable of delivering selected semi-finished and finished products and components, beyond simply manufacturing polymers.
Developing the PEEK and PAEK market means creating new solutions for customers, building new supply chains where none currently exist and, in turn, offering growth and differentiation Meaningful revenue opportunities for Victrex.
Our Magma Oil & Gas Although we recognise the time required to drive market adoption, our programme secured over focus is on acceleration opportunities, whether organically or through 1m revenue this year acquisition and partnership.
Today we announced an investment of 10m in Magma Global, our existing development partner for the Magma Oil & Gas mega-programme.
Similar to our Kleiss acquisition last year, investments of this nature offer the potential to underpin andfurther advance our growth programmes.
Our Magma investment reflects our long term view of this market, despite short term challenges within Oil & Gas.
The investment will underpin additional manufacturing capacity at the Magma facility, provide us with a more influential role in the opportunity and enable Victrex to bring its experience of adopting innovative and disruptive technology into the Magma programme.
A s communicated at Victrexs interim results in May 2016, the industry split We expect to communicate more detail about our growth pipeline information has been changed from the prior year.
All comparatives have ata Capital Markets Day in 2017. been restated onaconsistent basis.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 13 Strategic report Financial review continued Delivering ourstrategy Success with our downstream strategy offers the opportunity to capture  application.
1 Trauma, Knee and Aerospace Loaded Brackets, as well assome Operating performance continued smaller opportunities.
Medical stable: progress with mega-programmes In our Medical business Invibio, revenue was up 1% at 50.8m In Horizon 1 02 years from meaningful revenue of 1m2m, 2015:50.5m, which reflects our biggest market spinal fusion inthe Magma delivered meaningful revenue this year, reflecting trial US remaining stable, but with limited growth in the number ofspinal orders, as well as some intervention pipe sales.
We will now focus surgery procedures.
We saw continued progress in emerging market on further development of the Magma opportunity, whilst noting growth.
Medical sales in Asia were up 2%, with first regulatory the macro-environment is still challenging.
Our other Horizon 1 TM approvals for our innovative PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced product TM programmes include PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced for the Spine secured in China.
Submissions are also pending in South America.
market and our Gears programme.
The latter programme has been accelerated, thanks to the capabilities we acquired through the Our position regarding the Consent Decree we entered into with Kleiss acquisition and prototype development, and has the theUS Federal Trade Commission FTC, as set out in our opportunity to deliver first meaningful revenue by the end of 2017. announcement of 28April 2016, is unchanged.
As we previously Horizon 2 25 years from meaningful revenue programmes include communicated, Victrex has not admitted any violations of any law, Dental: Trauma, where we have a development agreement in place there are no penalties or fines and the Consent Decree will resolve with a major US medical device manufacturer: and Aerospace alloutstanding matters before the FTC.
The Board does not expect Loaded Brackets.
Our Knee programme is in Horizon 3 5 years the FTC Consent decree to have a material impact on the business, from meaningful revenue.
The Consent Decree became finalon 14July2016, without any modifications.
Further differentiating our chemistry In our pipeline of medical mega-programmes, we secured a We are progressing with construction of our Polymer Innovation development agreement with a major US medical device manufacturer Centre, which will further enhance our prototyping and application for our Trauma programme, allied to our new Trauma plates development capabilities and the development of new differentiated manufacturing facility being completed this year.
We anticipate polymer grades beyond our existing chemistry.
The facility, which is meaningful revenue within a two to five-year timeframe from this expected to be operational during the second half of 2017, will also programme, although it has the potential to accelerate more quickly.
provide support for our Innovate UK consortium, led by Victrex, Further potential investment will be kept under review with this focusing on additive layer manufacturing ALM or 3D printing.
programme, in the event of a quicker ramp-up.
In Dental, we continue to Research and development investment was 14.1m 2015: 13.7m, work on enhancing our route to market within the industry.
We are now representing approximately 6% of Group revenue.
working with the Malo Clinic in Portugal, which reported successful performance data for Juvora in June, with a multi-year clinical study in Continued focus on costs place.
This builds on the good progress in doubling sales last year.
Continuing to focus on cost efficiency and supply chain Over 6,000 patients now have our Juvora dental frames and opportunities across our business remains important.
Keeping developing partnerships to enhance market access remains key.
costcompetitive in our manufacturing, whilst retaining the Our Knee programme will shortly commence its clinical trial.
differentiators in our polymer chemistry and security of supply, is Wecontinue to progress this opportunity with our partner Maxx key in a competitive market.
Beyond capturing further cost benefits, Orthopedics and note the current high dissatisfaction rates with a focus on our supply chain will also support the requirements for metal-based knee implants, as well as the significant market opportunity.
new polymer grades over the coming years, as we differentiate and move beyond our existing chemistry.
Investment in downstream manufacturing With the introduction of our Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system Retaining growth capital to help underpin our move downstream into this year, we are becoming more efficient in our allocation of resources selected semi-finished and finished products and components remains and our support functions.
Remaining cost focused in a competitive the priority for Victrex.
Our expectations of medium-term capital market is important and will also support how we allocate resources expenditure in the 25m35m per annum range are unchanged.
towards our front-end commercial, technical and marketing functions, Investments this year were focused around composites, a market helping to drive adoption of our mega-programmes.
which is expected to grow over 10% per annum over the next five Overheads were down 6% during the year.
Alongside being cost years source: Lucintel Growth Opportunities in Continuous Fiber efficient, this also reflects that our employee bonus scheme, which Thermoplastics Market 20152020.
These investments include is linked to profit growth, was not triggered.
construction of our Trauma plates manufacturing facility in Medical and our Composite Tape manufacturing line, which will support Strong balance sheet Aerospace, Magma and Medical mega-programmes.
Both projects Our strong balance sheet supports growth investment and provides are now fully operational, with significant know-how tied up in security of supply to our customers.
these assets, helping us to further differentiate our business.
Strong development pipeline: investing to At the end of the first half, stock levels were at 69.1m, where we had built stock ahead of the ERP roll-out, and ensuring we had driveadoption sufficient stock to manage the expected upturn in Consumer Our development pipeline is focused on six mega-programmes, TM Electronics volumes during the second half.
Pleasingly, stock levels PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced Spine, Dental, Victrex Pipe Magma, 14 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report of61.8m at the end of September 2016 decreased earlier than Polymer Innovation Centre anticipated, reflecting the implementation of our ERP system.
Construction of our facility to support new polymer grades Victrexs UK defined benefit scheme closed to future accrual on and our 3D printing consortium commenced this year.
31March 2016, with employees in the defined benefit scheme eligible to join the defined contribution scheme.
As part of the closure, Victrex made a cash contribution of 3.6m into the defined benefit scheme.
A non-cash curtailment gain of 2.6m was recognised inthe income statement, representing the one-off reduction in accounting liabilities as benefits are no longer linked to future salaryincreases.
The scheme was closed to new members in 2001.
This gain was reduced by a charge of 1.5m, for transitional benefitsprovided to active pension scheme members and the costsof closing the scheme.
The net one-off benefit of 1.1m from closing the scheme has been offset in the income statement, with restructuring costs of 1.6m, resulting in a net charge to the incomestatement of 0.5m.
Strong cash generation Aerospace Cash generated from operations was 96.0m 2015: 111.9m Transport markets continue to offer representing an operating cash conversion cash generated from long-term growth opportunities.
Net cash with no debt at 30 September was up 19% to 64.0m 2015: 53.8m, which partly reflects the back-end loading of Consumer Electronics volumes and payments coming in after the year end.
Regular dividends of 39.9m 2015: 38.7m reflect the final dividend from 2015 of 35.09p and the interim dividend of 11.73p.
Those paid in the prior year excluding a 50p per share special dividend totalling 42.5m, which was announced in December 2014 were a final dividend of 33.76p and an interim dividend of 11.73p.
Taxation The effective tax rate was 17.7% 2015: 21.5%.
The lower rate in2016 is mainly due to the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax, in addition to the impact of restating the opening deferred tax balance and prior period adjustments, primarily relating to a higher than normal level of R&D qualifying expenditure during 2015.
Taxation paid during the period was 12.7m 2015: 24.6m.
The Group anticipates the effective tax rate for 2017 willbe higher than 2016 levels.
Dividends Our capital allocation framework states that growth investment isour top priority.
The policy for our regular dividend is to grow in line with earnings, with cover maintained at around 2x.
After this, and subject to no additional growth investment, Victrex will return around 50% of the net cash balance to shareholders, via a special dividend, subject to a 50p share minimum level.
For the full year, with profit before tax falling by 6%, the Group is holding the final dividend at 35.09p per share.
Total dividends for the year are 46.82p 2015: 46.82p.
Outlook For 2017, our core business is in growth, we remain focused on costefficiency and we are operating in a more favourable currency environment.
Our assumptions for a continuation of Consumer Electronics volumes, but at a significantly lower level, are unchanged, Gears with an expected second half weighting.
At this early stage of the Our Kleiss acquisition has helped year, weare comfortable with current expectations.
A s communicated at Victrexs interim results in May 2016, the industry split information has been changed from the prior year.
All comparatives have Louisa Burdett been restated onaconsistent basis.
Group Finance Director 6 December 2016 Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 15 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports Shaping future performance Innovating to grow: building the high performance polymer market.
Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions revenue Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions The Industrial business unit generated revenue of 201.5m 2015: 213.0m, 5% down on the prior year, reflecting lowerConsumer 201.5m -5% Electronics volumes.
Gross profit was down 8% on the prior year, with the gross margin Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions gross profit down to 56.7% 2015: 58.2%.
This was principally driven bythehigher cost of manufacturing due to lower volumes through 114.2m -8% the plants.
Whilst the Group manages and reports its performance through theIndustrial VPS and Medical Invibio divisions, we continue to provide a market based summary of our performance and growth opportunities within our two reporting segments.
Energy and Other Industrial Energy & Other Industrial sales volume at 485 tonnes was 7% down on last year 2015: 522 tonnes, with Oil & Gas down 16% overall.
The second half of the year saw Oil & Gas more stable.
Victrexs exposure to Oil & Gas is mixed because we typically supply more stable chemical processing industries and production-led business, as well as the exploration-linked applications which have been more affected by the lower oil price.
Long-term megatrends inOil & Gas continue to be strong, with harder to extract reserves, higher pressure and more extreme temperatures demanding better performance from materials.
Our PEEK composite tape is also supporting opportunities in this market.
Tim Cooper Executive Director Industrial Value Added Resellers Value Added Resellers sales volume at 1,398 tonnes was 5% ahead of last year 2015: 1,334 tonnes, as processors and industrial Medical Invibio revenue customers continued to benefit from the growth opportunities within the high performance polymer market.
Because of the fragmented nature of the industrial supply chain, once PEEK and 50.8m 1% ourpolymers have been specified, full clarity on the exact route to market for all of our polymer business is not always possible and Medical Invibio gross profit wehave historically made as accurate an assessment as possible about where these volumes land in our end markets.
Value Added Resellers reflects that we will no longer be allocating some indirect 44.5m 0% business into our five major markets.
This segment continues to offer growth opportunities for material and resin-based business.
Transport Transport sales volume increased 9% to 869 tonnes 2015:800tonnes with a good performance across Aerospace andAutomotive.
In Aerospace, the main airframe manufacturers are increasingly moving beyond lightweighting trends to focus on reducing the backlog of orders and driving down the total cost of components.
PEEKs processability and ability to reduce manufacturing cycle timeby up to 40% is a keyselling point.
During the year we secured pre-qualification forour PEEK composites Loaded Bracket programme, which blends different grades of PEEK with carbon fibre into a unique and IP-protectable application.
This complements and builds on existing applications in Aerospace, suchas Unloaded Brackets and our PEEK film in Thermal Acoustic Blankets.
Other developments include material for brackets programmes with COMAC in China, supporting their ARJ21 regionaljet.
Martin Court Executive Director Medical 16 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Acceleration options We continue to focus on investments which could help accelerate our growth programmes.
In Automotive, we continue to see further penetration of our core applications in ABS braking systems, transmission applications and other areas.
Our Gears programme reflects the demand for lower noise, vibration and harshness NVH, where PEEK can offer a 50% performance benefit compared to metal gears, as well as the trend for fuel efficiency and lightweighting.
We now have multiple prototyping orders and are also engaged in discussions around other applications, including those under the hood, whilst we continue to explore the opportunity in e-motors.
Electronics Electronics sales overall were down 29% to 977 tonnes 2015:1,380tonnes, reflecting a decline of over 30% inourlargeConsumer Electronics order, partially offset  performance.
The long-term trend of mobile devices getting thinner, smaller andsmarter remains supportive.
Victrex continues to work on a number of market-wide development programmes, in addition toexisting business.
The inherent volatility in this market, linked toend-user demand, remains a challenge: however, as we have proven with our Aptiv film, which is repeatable across many manufacturers and models, the growth opportunities in this Downstream manufacturing marketcontinue to be attractive.
We now have several downstream manufacturing assets to underpin our growth programmes.
Regional trends In our regions, the US and Asia saw the greatest declines, reflecting Oil& Gas business which is typically specified through the US, and lower Consumer Electronics.
Europe was up 7%, with 1,987 tonnes 2015:1,852 tonnes : Asia-Pacific was down 20% to 1,303 tonnes 2015:1,626 tonnes, largely due to lower overall Electronics volumes.
US volumes were 10% down to 662 tonnes 2015:739tonnes, principally from Oil & Gas weakness in thefirsthalf.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 17 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports continued Medical opportunities Long-term growth trends in Medical markets remain attractive.
With early stage sales in some Medical Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Our Medical business performed solidly this year, with the ofournew medical programmes, geographic weighting in the US and in Spine offsetting progress ouremphasis continues on market inemerging geographies and the initial build of revenue in Dental and Trauma.
adoption, whether through support Gross profit was 44.5m 2015: 44.3m and gross margins data to vindicate these programmes remained solid at 87.6% 2015: 87.7%.
orengagement with key opinion Medical market overview leaders and market influencers.
Over 70% of Invibio revenue is from the Spine market and mostly inthe US.
With a lack of material growth in the number of US spinal procedures, market growth in recent years has remained muted.
Consolidation amongst manufacturers and fee for value pricing trends have also been a headwind for the medical device industry.
We are addressing the challenge in the US through driving adoption of new innovation in Spine, seeking to further develop revenue from new geographies which have continued to perform well, with Asia-Pacific revenues up 2% this year and finally to secure adoption and early stage commercialisation of our mega-programmes in TM PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced, Dental and Trauma.
Knee remains within our Horizon 3 opportunities 5 years from meaningful revenue.
For the medium to longer term, we believe Invibio is well placed inboth the US and other geographic markets.
Beyond being simply a materials supplier, our in-house regulatory expertise will help us todrive our existing programmes and new business.
Already we have qualifications in Australia, China, India and South America.
With early stage sales in some of our new medical programmes, ouremphasis continues on market adoption, whether through support data to vindicate these programmes or engagement with key opinion leaders and market influencers.
18 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Knee programme Trauma programme Our clinical trial will We secured a development agreement to help commence in2017.
progress our Trauma programme this year.
In our Knee programme, we have the opportunity to introduce a Mega-programmes TM lightweight and durable product against incumbent materials.
With Invibios PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced product, which promotes allpre-clinical work completed, our clinical trial will start early in 2017. bone-on growth, commenced its adoption phase in 2015 following Knee is the furthest out of our opportunities five-plus years from regulatory approval the previous year.
Victrex now has 18 regulatory meaningful revenue but is potentially sizeable, currently scaled as a approvals and 29 submissions, a threefold increase since the prior 50m annual peak revenue opportunity.
Patient demand and the year.
Over 1,000 patients, to date, have successfully received TM current high dissatisfaction rates for metal-based solutions offer implants of spinal cages based on PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced.
We will continue to target key opinion leaders and surgeons in addition to spine companies, helping to drive adoption.
Whilst TM PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced will cannibalise some of our existing Spine business, it remains on track to deliver meaningful revenue of1m2m over the next one to two years.
Dental sales remain below the 1m meaningful revenue threshold, but have made further progress this year, following a doubling of revenues last year.
Over 6,000 patients now have our Juvora dental frames.
Partnerships to secure better distribution in this fragmented global market are in focus for Invibio.
We are working with the Malo Clinic in Portugal, which reported successful performance data for Juvora earlier this year.
Our Trauma manufacturing facility is now operational, enhancing our offering within the Trauma plate market, enabling us to have the ability to meet initial demand.
Our manufacturing process has significant know-how behind it, blending PEEK and composites into semi-finished plates.
These products offer the potential for 50 times better fatigue resistance compared to a metal plate in the body.
Our development agreement with a major US player is expected to help progress the opportunity over the coming years.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 19 Strategic report Risk management Risk management Risk management is embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring that we assess risks as part ofdelivering our strategy.
1 RISK AGENDA 4 RISK COMMUNICATION 2 RISK ASSESSMENT 5 RISK GOVERNANCE 3 RISK RESPONSE This is particularly important as the business Risk objectives continues to move downstream into The Board is responsible for determining semi-finished products, finished products thenature and extent of the risks it is willing RISK AGENDA and components and as it drives market to take in delivering Victrexs strategy as Why do we undertake adoption of the mega-programmes.
Victrex undertakes risk management to Risk strategy improve understanding of the actual and The Board is responsible for creating the potential risks to our business as well as the framework for the Groups risk management resilience, performance, sustainability and to operate effectively.
This risk management success of its business, to enable it to assess framework includes risk assessment, response, and respond to new opportunities as they communication and governance.
The Board arise and to provide fair and balanced is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate information to shareholders and and proportionate resources are allocated .
2nd: Activities to advise and oversee first line Analysis and recording of risks controls and processes and risk management Executive managers take ownership of processes, often at least one step removed specific business risks.
The likely causes RISK ASSESSMENT from first line direct management.
andconsequences of each risk are recorded.
How do we assess Each risk is evaluated based on its likelihood 3rd: Independent business assurance 2 andrecordrisks?
of occurrence and severity of impact on provided by both third parties and in-house strategy, profit, regulatory compliance, internal audit over the effectiveness of the reputation and or people.
Risks are When assessing risk, we consider: Groups system of internal controls and evaluated at both a gross and a net level, processes in first and second lines of defence.
u external factors, including environmental, i. e. before and after the effect of mitigation.
social and governance ESG factors All risks are positioned on a risk-ranking Re-evaluation and challenge arising from the environment in which matrix.
This approach allows the identification ofrisks we operate: and and consistent evaluation of significant risks, We seek to keep the risk registers up to as well as consideration of the effect of u internal factors arising from the dateand relevant to our strategic objectives.
current lines of defence in mitigation.
natureof our business, internal The risk registers are regularly reviewed, controlsand processes.
We look at three lines of defence: challenged and debated.
Risks are escalated as appropriate.
1st: The day to day controls and processes put in place by management.
20 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report For each risk, we decide whether to tolerate it, The risk owners and the Risk and mitigate it through further control, transfer it Compliance team allocate a status rating e. g. through insurance or terminate the ofappropriateness and effectiveness against RISK RESPONSE threat to the business.
This allows the risk How do we respond register to record and track the completion We continually challenge the efficiency and 3 torisks?
effectiveness of existing internal controls andalways seek to improve our risk management framework.
The corporate risk register is consolidated ELT Risk Management from registers within business functions and Committee projects.
The corporate risk register tracks The Executive Leadership Team ELT RISK COMMUNICATION the status ratings against each line of RiskManagement Committee, chaired Effective communication defence and the action plan, therefore bytheGroup Finance Director, reviews the 4 allowing it to be used effectively as a record corporate risk register at least half yearly to of the completion of risk improvement ensure it remains relevant to the changing actions and their revised likelihood and uncertainties which have the potential to At Victrex, our risk management impact.
impact our business strategic objectives.
structure is as follows: During the year feedback from these reviews Audit Committee was provided directly to the Audit Committee Victrex plc Board The responsibilities of the Audit Committee and the Board by the Group Finance Director, The Board undertakes reviews of the are explained on pages 48 to 49.
These to the former in respect of the risk effectiveness of the risk management responsibilities include reviewing the management systems and to the latter in framework, policy and procedures and the Companys risk management systems.
respect of the principal risks in the corporate performance of the Audit Committee and Therisk management system is primarily risk register.
The ELT Risk Management also approves the risk management policy.
designed to mitigate risk down to an Committee comprises the ELT membership acceptable level, rather than completely and the Director of Risk and Compliance.
A more comprehensive review of eliminate the risk, and the review can effectiveness includes consideration of the provide only reasonable and not absolute continued effective integration of risk Risk management assurance of effective operation, compliance management and internal controls with the subcommittees with laws and regulations and against corporate strategic objectives and business Risk management subcommittees exist for material misstatement or loss.
model, changes to and completeness of the business unit functional levels.
These meet principal risks and their management, the The Companys management is responsible and report up to the ELT Risk Management robustness of the embedded risk management for the identification, assessment, Committee at least half yearly via their processes and culture which underpin the management and monitoring of risk, respective chairs, who are ELT Risk quality of the reporting received by the Board, fordeveloping, operating and monitoring Management Committee members.
consideration of any significant control failings the system of internal control.
The Audit or weaknesses and the strength of our public Committee receives reports from Projects reporting process.
management on the effectiveness Where it is appropriate, projects will have ofthosesystems it has established.
Twice yearly, the Board carries out a aproject-specific risk register which will comprehensive assessment of the principal bereported to the relevant business unit.
The Risk and Compliance function supports risks, including evaluating the level of risk it the Audit Committee in its review of the isprepared to accept in pursuit of Victrexs effectiveness of the system of internal strategic objectives.
control, as does the external auditor on matters identified during the course of itsstatutory audit work.
In Victrex, the processes in place to support Management Committee, which therisk governance component of our risk reviewsthese and the risks in the management framework include the following: corporate risk register.
The three lines RISK GOVERNANCE ofdefence model is recognised as best u For Board and internal audit, see pages How do we evaluate practice in relation to risk governance, 45 and 50 respectively.
5 andprovide assurance over and its inclusion on the face of our u The chairman of each of the risk corporate risk register enhances the our management of risks?
management subcommittees governance aspect of our risk communicates significant output, management framework.
activities and emerging and evolving risks to the meetings of the ELT Risk Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 21
