Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 29 Audit Committee Chair Financial reporting matters Commercial income The Board is satisfied that Belinda Richards Commercial income is a deduction from Summarised below are the financial reporting has recent and relevant financial experience the cost of purchase and it is recognised in matters and key accounting judgements appropriate to her position as Chair of the accordance with signed supplier agreements, reviewed by the Committee during the year: Audit Committee.
Belinda is considered to have with most of this income subject to little sufficient financial experience, having been a or no subjectivity or judgement.
Impairment of property, plant and corporate finance partner at Deloitte for over ten The Groups definition of commercial income is equipment, intangible assets and years.
Additionally, she serves on the Advisory disclosed in note 1.1 of the financial statements onerous property commitments Group of the Audit Committee Chairmen at and is consistent with the definition in the the Financial Reporting Council and is a member The Group assesses impairment on an annual prior year.
of the Governing Council of the Centre for the basis, or where changes in circumstances result Study of Financial Innovation.
Commercial income continues to be an area in a risk of impairment, as disclosed in note 3.1 of focus for the committee both recognition of the financial statements.
The impairment Audit Committee activities in 2015 16 and compliance with the Groceries Supply review includes non-financial assets, principally During the year, the Committee has: Code of Practice.
the Groups property portfolio, IT assets and goodwill.
considered the appropriateness of the During the year, the Committee has considered Groups Annual report and financial the judgements made by management over The Groups trading performance and evidence statements and Half-yearly report: accounting for commercial income, including of the market value for properties disposed of reviewing the level of commercial income during the year were factors considered by the reviewed the effectiveness of the internal recognised.
In addition, the Committee continues Group as part of the annual impairment review.
controls and the work of Risk and Internal Audit to ensure the Group looks to provide disclosure Management also estimated the recoverable and discussed key risks described in more detail on the various types of commercial income, amount of all impacted assets to determine the on pages 17 to 19 : accounting policies and judgements.
The Group extent of any impairment charge or whether considered systems design, implementation provides detailed balance sheet disclosure in this a reversal of a previous impairment charge and related project management in respect area including specific reference to the level of was applicable.
This assessment confirmed the of changes to the Groups financial reporting accrued and deferred income.
The Committee carrying value of assets remained appropriate systems and processes: is satisfied with managements clarity and with no changes to the previous impairment, as reviewed key policies including those transparency in this area.
disclosed in note 1.4 in the financial statements.
governing tax, treasury, expenses and In considering the appropriateness of The Committee reviewed the Groups corporate hospitality: commercial income recognised in the year assessment of recoverable value and reassessed reviewed and discussed the recognition of and the financial position at the year end, the key assumptions and judgements made commercial income and the controls in place the Committee has reviewed reports from in the light of current market conditions and over compliance with Groceries Supply Code management outlining the accounting trading performance.
The Committee has of Practice: and judgements and the control environment.
understood managements key assumptions discussed the new Governance Code and In reviewing the assumptions made by including the market valuations of the stores.
management, the Committee challenged It has also reviewed the methodology and and understood the key assumptions approach to forecast store cash flows, which In respect of financial reports, the Committees and judgements.
remains consistent with the prior year.
focus was: The Committee considered the effectiveness In addition, for leasehold arrangements where the accounting judgements made by of the operation of key controls, through the expected future benefits from a store are management that could have a significant review of managements work and that of less than the future lease commitment, the effect on the Groups financial results: Internal Audit.
The Committee considered the Committee reviewed the judgements required oversight of IT changes affecting financial frequency of the operation of controls, the size in recognising onerous lease provisions.
systems and controls: of samples and discussed with management The Committee discussed the sensitivity of the clarity of disclosure of financial how controls could be further improved.
key assumptions along with their impact on information: and The Committee has had regular updates from the impairment and onerous lease provisions both management and Internal Audit regarding whether the Annual report, taken as a whole, and is satisfied the assumptions applied by the operational effectiveness of controls.
is fair, balanced and understandable the management are appropriate.
Directors statement on this can be found on page 46 of this Annual report.
