Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Financial Officers review Meeting our objectives This has been a strong year of execution for the Group, meeting our strategic goals and delivering returns to shareholders.
My priorities Project Spring execution When I became CFO I highlighted three Our 19 billion, two-year programme I am pleased to say that all of our Project clear priorities which I believe will have of accelerated investment was Spring customer experience targets have a significant impact on our future financial designed to deliver tangible differences been met.
In Europe, targets for both performance: the execution of Project Spring in the quality of our services compared data sessions above three megabits per according to the financial plan: the integration to competitors.
As Vittorio highlighted second the threshold for high-definition of acquisitions, most notably Kabel on page 10, the mobile build phase was quality video and dropped call rates were Deutschland KDG and Ono: and a continued completed and we now have a modernised achieved:above 90% and less than 0.5% focus on cost efficiency.
I believe that we have network, delivering a much improved respectively.
In AMAP, our dropped call made good progress in all three areas and customer experience.
rate target has alsobeen achieved at less in the coming financial year it will be important than0.9%.
to build on the improving execution seen In terms of progress against our operational during the 2016 financial year as we continue plan we are ahead overall, achieving 108% On the financial front, capital investment to monetise our Project Spring investments.
In our AMAP region was broadly, as planned, 19 billion taking Additionally, we intend to continue to pursue we delivered our mobile build targets three into account foreign exchange movements incremental operating efficiencies across months ahead of plan.
In Europe we are and timing differences.
Consequently this all of our operating companies.
In particular our 4G build has, as expected, depressed our cash flows year we initiated an ambitious cost efficiency was impacted by rollout delays in the over the last two years.
Looking forward, project called Fit for Growth which UK and Germany.
we continue to expect that the level of capital we anticipate will deliver significant long-term spending will return to a more normalised benefits in terms of both cost savings and level of capital intensity and we will generate enhanced strategic flexibility.
Executing these the expected 1 billion of incremental cash programmes with minimal disruption flow by the 2019 financial year.
Our results are reviewed in more detail later in this report, but overall I am satisfied KDG and Ono acquisition integration that we have made important progress A key strategic focus for the Group in improving the financial performance is to gain competitive fixed networks of the business.
600m to meet the growing demand for Combined annual cost and capex converged services.
Part of the execution More on our performance: Pages 30 to 37 synergiesby 2018 previously 540m of this strategy is to acquire companies where we can see a clear return on that investment.
KDG and Ono, two leading 6.3bn cable companies, were acquired in 2013 and 2014 respectively.
In total Net Present Value of synergies was 5.0bn we expected to generate combined Cost Project annual cost and capex acquisition efficiency Spring synergies of approximately 540 million 242,000 execution by the 2018 financial year, mainly from Vodafone DSL customers migrated migrating fixed and mobile customers onto our own infrastructure and combining backhaul and core networks 2.9m and rationalisation of back office functions converged services customers Acquisition and procurement.
I am pleased to say that integration mostly KDG and Ono progress on integration has been better than expected and we now aim to deliver annual synergies totalling 600 million.
14 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Performance against 2016 Cost efficiency financial year guidance We continued to make good progress on Based on guidance foreign exchange rates, costs this year within the scope of our Fit for EBITDA for the 2016 financial year was 108% Growth programme.
As a result we were able 11.9 billion, in line with the 11.5 billion of the mobile build target met to reduce overall customer costs through to 12.0 billion range set in May 2015.
On the commercial efficiencies and drive down the same basis our free cash flow was 1.0 billion, support cost base in Europe.
This helped offset 87% consistent with our positive free cash increased network costs driven by the Project Europe 4G coverage, slightly behind flow guidance.
Spring roll-out, and inflationary pressures 90%target in our high growth markets in AMAP.
Our Looking ahead Group-wide initiatives are driving a meaningful improvement in our cost base.
These include a The key goals for the year ahead are to build 1bn focus on direct cost optimisation: commercial on the improving commercial execution evident incremental cash flow from Spring by 2019 efficiencies: network & IT transformation last year, further enhance customer service, opportunities: centralised procurement and monetise the Project Spring investments, shared services: zero-based budgeting: and continue our focus on cost efficiency and grow cost & capex synergy savings at acquired the dividend to shareholders.
companies, combined with comprehensive With effect from 1 April 2016, our presentation local market initiatives.
currency will change from sterling to the euro We introduced a zero-based budgeting to better align with the geographic split of the methodology for the first time this year Groups operations.
of which there were three key components.
The first was an absolute cost reduction We expect EBITDA to grow organically across Group functions, which was fully by 36%: this implies a range of 15.7 billion implemented in March 2016, delivering to 16.2 billion at guidance exchange rates.
Secondly, We expect free cash flow of at least 4 billion.
for Group operational units such as data Total capital expenditure is now targeted In Spain the integration of Ono has proceeded centres and Shared Services we established to be in the mid-teens as a percentage successfully.
We have so far connected over productivity targets to drive efficiencies of annual revenue: this is higher than 800 mobile base station sites to Onos fibre to further across the organisation.
And thirdly, the 13%14% range that we previously save on backhaul costs.
In addition, the launch we set multi-year targets for each of our local anticipated, as we believe that there are last May of Vodafone One, our fully converged markets to drive margin expansion.
attractive investment opportunities available cable, mobile and TV service, has attracted to further accelerate our growth and improve 1.5 million customers.
Overall we have already The revenue growth combined with our secured 100% of the original 240 million of cost our long-term strategic positioning.
strict cost control and efficiency measures and capex synergies targeted.
We now expect is enabling us to achieve greater operational The Board intends to grow dividends per to deliver 300 million of annualised savings.
leverage and begin to expand margins.
For the 2017 financial year We have also made solid progress in Germany, and beyond, dividends will be declared and we have already managed to secure in euros and paid in euros, pounds sterling and 80% of the original 300 million synergy US dollars, aligning the Groups shareholder 100m target.
We have migrated 242,000 customers returns with the primary currency in which Fit for Growth net savings from zero based off our DSL platform on which we pay high we generate free cash-flow.
budgeting in Group functions monthly fees onto KDGs cable infrastructure.
In November, we launched Vodafone Red One, our converged offer, which now has 54,000 80% customers.
Finally, we have identified further Procurement spend centralised by 2019 opportunities for savings in procurement and Nick Read other efficiency measures and as a result we Chief Financial Officer are now targeting synergies with a NPV of Note: 3.5 billion, up from 3.0 billion previously.
1 Before the impact of M&A, spectrum purchases and 15 restructuring costs.
