FINANCIAL REVIEW continued MEDICLINIC AL NOOR COMBINATION ASSETS The Combination became effective on Intangible assets increased from 642m at 15 February 2016.
The results of Al Noor have been 31 March 2015 to 1 927m at 31 March 2016 mainly consolidated from that date.
The integration of because of the goodwill recognised in respect Al Noor is ongoing and the performance until now of the Al Noor acquisition.
is in line with expectations.
TAX The fair value exercise over the opening balance The Groups effective tax rate was increased from sheet of Al Noor remains provisional at 31 March 4.3% to 22.4%.
In the prior year, the tax rate was 2016 as permitted by IFRS 3.
Since the Group is in impacted by the release of 43m Swiss income tax discussions with UAE medical insurance funders liabilities in relation to historic uncertain tax positions.
and other third parties about conforming Al Noors For the period under review, the transaction cost commercial practices with the rest of the Group, relating to the Al Noor Combination was nonthere is still a degree of uncertainty about the fair deductible for tax purposes and this had a tax value of certain acquired assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, the non-deductibility expected to be finalised during the next year.
of the accelerated IFRS 2 charges affected the tax charge by 3m.
CASH FLOW The Group continued to deliver strong cash flow.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF The Group converted 96% 2015: 109% of SHARES ADJUSTMENT underlying EBITDA into cash generated from operations.
Cash and cash equivalents increased During the period under review, shares were issued at from 265m to 305m.
As required by the accounting standards IAS 33 paragraph 26, an adjustment was made to INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS the weighted average number of shares in issue for the current and the prior year.
Basic earnings per Interest-bearing borrowings increased from 1 618m share for the prior year was adjusted and decreased to 1 841m.
The increase is mainly because of the by 1.1 pence from 45.7 pence to 44.6 pence and basic bridge facility which was utilised to fund the tender underlying earnings per share for the prior year offer to Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shareholders.
decreased by 0.8 pence from 36.6 to 35.8 pence.
The refinancing of the bridge is underway and details will be provided on conclusion thereof.
2016 2015 'm 'm Interest-bearing 1 841 1 618 Less: cash and cash 305 265 equivalents Net debt 1 536 1 353 Total equity 3 570 1 840 Debt-to-equity capital 0.4 0.7 ratio 58 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT UNDERLYING NON-IFRS FINANCIAL DIVIDEND POLICY AND DIVIDEND MEASURES Following the completion of the Combination of Mediclinic International Limited and Al Noor, the The Group uses underlying income statement Board has reviewed and amended the dividend policy reporting as non-IFRS measures in evaluating to target a pay-out ratio of between 25% and 30% of performance and as a method to provide underlying earnings.
The Board may revise the policy shareholders with clear and consistent reporting.
The Group's non-IFRS measures are intended to remove The Board proposes a fi final dividend of 5.24 pence from reported earnings volatility associated with the per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2016. following types of one-off income and charges: Together with the interim dividend of 1.66 pence per restructuring provisions: share for the six months ended 30 September 2015 profi t loss on sale of signifi cant assets: paid on 7 December 2015, the total fi final proposed dividend refl ects a 25% distribution of underlying past service cost charges credits in relation to Group earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders.
pension fund conversion rate changes: signifi cant prior year tax and deferred tax Shareholders on the South African register will be adjustments: paid the ZAR cash equivalent of 119.5244 cents accelerated IFRS 2 charges: 101.5957 cents net of dividend withholding tax per signifi cant tariff provision charges releases: share.
The ZAR cash equivalent has been calculated using the following exchange rate: 1:ZAR22.81, being mark-to-market fair value gains losses, relating to the 5 day average ZAR GBP exchange rate on Friday, ineff ective interest rate swaps: 20 May 2016 at 3:00pm GMT Bloomberg.
signifi cant impairment charges: signifi cant insurance proceeds: and signifi cant transaction costs incurred during acquisitions.
The Strategic Report, comprising pages 2 to 59, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: AR The Group has consistently applied this defi nition of underlying measures as it has reported on its fi financial performance in the past as the directors believe this additional information is important to allow shareholders to better understand the Groups trading performance for the year.
It is the Groups intention to continue to Edwin Hertzog consistently apply this defi nition in the future.
Non-executive Chairman INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE AND CORPORATE EXPENDITURE On 24 August 2015, the Group acquired a 29.9% shareholding in Spire for 447m.
The investment in Spire contributed 6m to the Groups underlying earnings.
In addition, corporate expenditure was incurred amounting to 8m, of which 6m relates to the fi finance charges in respect of the bridge facility.
59 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Seamus Keating Dr Edwin Hertzog Ian Tyler Danie Meintjes Craig Tingle Desmond Smith Dr Edwin Hertzog the Remgro group, before joining Craig Tingle in senior fi finance roles in the UK and the Mediclinic Group in 1985 as Italy.
Mr Keating was non-executive Chief Financial Offi cer Non-executive director and the Hospital Manager of Mediclinic director and chairman of the audit Chairman of the Board Appointed Sandton.
Mr Meintjes was appointed committee of Mouchel plc from 15 February 2016 Appointed as a member of Mediclinics November 2010 to September 2012.
15 February 2016 Executive Committee in 1995 and He is currently Chairman of First Craig Tingle joined the Mediclinic as a director in 1996.
He holds Derivatives plc and a non-executive As a specialist anaesthetist, Group in 1990 and has a career an Honours degree in Industrial director of BGL Group.
He has been Dr Edwin Hertzog was invited to spanning over 25 years in the Psychology from the University of Chairman of Mi-pay Group plc since join the then Rembrandt Group healthcare industry in executive and the Free State and completed the April 2014.
He continues to serve now Remgro in 1983 and became non-executive capacities.
He was Advanced Management Program at as an independent non-executive the fi first Managing Director of appointed as the Financial Director Harvard Business School.
director of the Company subsequent Mediclinic International Limited at of Mediclinic International Limited to the reverse takeover by the its establishment during that year.
In Committee memberships: in 1992 and continues as the Chief Company of Mediclinic International 1992 he became executive Chairman Financial Offi cer of the Company Disclosure Committee, Investment Limited.
He is a fellow of the of the Company until August 2012 Committee, Clinical Performance and subsequent to the reverse takeover Chartered Institute of Management when he retired from his executive by the Company of Mediclinic Sustainability Committee Accountants.
role, but remained on the Board International Limited.
After his as non-executive Chairman.
He resignation from the position of Committee memberships: continues as the Chairman of Financial Director in 1999, he stayed Audit and Risk Committee, Ian Tyler the Company subsequent to the on as a non-executive director until Investment Committee reverse takeover by the Company of Senior Independent Director 2005, when he was appointed Chief Mediclinic International Limited.
He Financial Offi cer of Mediclinics Appointed continues to serve as non-executive operations in Dubai.
Mr Tingle was 5 June 2013 Desmond Smith Deputy Chairman of Remgro and appointed Chief Financial Offi cer of is a past non-executive director of Ian Tyler undertakes the role of Mediclinic in September 2010.
He Independent non-executive director the Distell, Total SA and Transhex Senior Independent Director holds a B. Sc.
Forestry degree from Appointed groups.
He is also a past Chairman for the Company.
He served as the University of Stellenbosch and 15 February 2016 of the Hospital Association of South Chief Executive Offi cer of Balfour an Honours degree in Accounting Africa as well as the Council of Beatty plc from January 2005 to Desmond Smith was the Chief Science from the University of Stellenbosch University and holds March 2013, having been the Chief Executive Offi cer of the Sanlam South Africa.
He is also a qualifi ed the following qualifi cations: Operating Offi cer since August 2002 Group from April 1993 to December Chartered Accountant with the M. B. Ch.
F. F. A. SA and and prior to that, Finance Director.
1997 and of the Reinsurance Group South African Institute of Ph.
He is currently the Chairman of of America South Africa from Chartered Accountants.
Bovis Homes Group plc and Cairn March 1999 to March 2005.
He Dr Edwin Hertzogs non-executive As previously announced, Mr Tingle Energy plc and is a non-executive is the present Chairman of both directorships listed above qualify as will retire on 15 June 2016. director of BAE Systems plc.
During his career he has his other signifi cant commitments, served on various boards.
Mr Smith 14 February 2016 he was Chairman Committee memberships: Disclosure for the purposes of Provision B.
3.1 of of Al Noor Hospital Group plc Committee, Investment Committee was appointed as an independent the UK Corporate Governance Code.
non-executive director of the and he continues to serve as an Committee memberships: Investment independent non-executive director Mediclinic International Limited Committee Chairman, Nomination in 2008 and also as the Lead of the Company subsequent to the Seamus Keating Committee, Clinical Performance and reverse takeover by the Company Independent Director of Mediclinic Sustainability Committee Chairman in 2010.
Mr Smith continues as an of Mediclinic International Limited.
Independent non-executive director He is also Chairman of AWE independent non-executive director Appointed of the Company subsequent to the Management Limited, a joint venture 5 June 2013 between Lockheed Martin, Jacobs reverse takeover by the Company of Danie Meintjes Seamus Keating has over Mediclinic International Limited.
Mr Tyler is qualifi ed as a Chief Executive Offi cer 20 years experience in the global Chartered Accountant.
is an actuary by profession having technology sector in both fi finance qualifi ed as a Fellow of the Institute Appointed Committee memberships: and operational roles and was a of Actuaries London and is a 15 February 2016 Nomination Committee Chairman, main board director of Logica plc past-president of both the Actuarial Audit and Risk Committee, Danie Meintjes has been the Chief from 2002 until April 2012 having Society of South Africa 1996 Disclosure Committee Chairman, Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic joined Logica as Group Finance and the International Actuarial Remuneration Committee International Limited since Director in 1999.
He was Logica plc Association 2012. and Clinical Performance and May 2010 and continues as the Chief Chief Financial Offi cer from 2002 Sustainability Committee Committee memberships: Executive Offi cer of the Company until 2010 when he became Chief Audit and Risk Committee subsequent to the reverse takeover Operating Offi cer and head of its Chairman, Nomination Committee by the Company of Mediclinic Benelux operations.
Prior to his role International Limited.
He served in at Logica plc, he worked for the various management positions in Olivetti Group from 1989 until 1999 60 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION Alan Grieve Nandi Mandela Jannie Durand Prof Dr Robert Leu Trevor Petersen Trevor Petersen Jannie Durand Alan Grieve Limited in 2010 and continues as an independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-executive director of the Company subsequent to the Appointed Appointed reverse takeover by the Company of Appointed 15 February 2016 15 February 2016 Mediclinic International Limited.
He 15 February 2016 obtained both his masters degree Alan Grieve worked with In 1996 Mr Petersen resigned Jannie Durand joined the Rembrandt and his doctorate in economics from Price Waterhouse & Co now from the University of Cape group on 1 April 1996.
He was the University of Basel.
 and Arthur Town UCT to take up a appointed as the Chief Executive Young now Ernst & Young prior partnership in the merged fi rm of Committee memberships: Offi cer of Remgro Limited on to joining Compagnie Financire  Inc.
In his current role with Richemont S. A. s predecessor served as a partner of the national Remuneration Committee more than 19 years experience in companies in 1986.
He is a former fi rm from 1997 to 2009 and served the investment industry, he acts as Director of Corporate Aff airs of as the Partner-in-Charge of Cape non-executive director of various Compagnie Financire Richemont Town and as Chairman of the companies, including, Distell Group Nandi Mandela SA, as well as non-executive director Western Cape Region.
Mr Petersen Limited, FirstRand Limited, Grindrod of Reinet Investments Manager SA.
currently serves as the Chairman of Independent non-executive director Limited, RCL Foods Limited and Mr Grieve holds a degree in business the Finance Committee of UCT.
Mr Durand Appointed administration from Heriot-Watt is an independent non-executive was appointed as a non-executive 15 February 2016 University and is a member of the director on the boards of Petmin director of Mediclinic International Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Ltd and Media24 Pty Ltd a Nandi Mandela is a director of Limited in June 2012 and continues Mr Grieve was appointed as an Linda Masinga & Associates, a town subsidiary of Naspers Ltd and is as a non-executive director of independent non-executive director currently the Managing Trustee of planning and consultancy fi rm the Company subsequent to the of Mediclinic International Limited in since 2003.
Prior to that she was the Woodside Village Trust.
Trevor reverse takeover by the Company September 2012 and continues as an has served professional membership employed by the Tongaat-Hulett of Mediclinic International Limited.
independent non-executive director Group from 1992 to 1997, before associations such as the South He holds an Honours Degree in of the Company subsequent to the African Institute of Chartered joining BP where she worked in Accountancy from the University reverse takeover by the Company of various sales and public aff airs Accountants and was elected the of Stellenbosch and a Masters of Mediclinic International Limited.
Chairman of the national body in positions from 1997 to 2003.
Philosophy in Management Studies Ms Mandela was appointed as 2006 and 2007.
He was appointed from Oxford University.
He is also Committee memberships: as an independent non-executive an independent non-executive Audit and Risk Committee, a qualifi ed Chartered Accountant director of Mediclinic International director of Mediclinic International with the South African Institute of Investment Committee Limited in 2012 and continues as an Limited in 2012 and continues as an Chartered Accountants.
independent non-executive director independent non-executive director Committee memberships: of the Company subsequent to the of the Company subsequent to the Investment Committee, Prof Dr Robert Leu reverse takeover by the Company of reverse takeover by the Company Nomination Committee of Mediclinic International Limited.
Independent non-executive director Ms Mandela holds a Bachelors He holds an Honours Degree in Appointed degree in Social Science from the Accountancy from the University of 15 February 2016 University of Cape Town, completed Cape Town and is also a qualifi ed the Associate in Management Chartered Accountant with the Robert Leu is professor emeritus of programme at the University of Cape South African Institute of the University of Bern in Switzerland.
Town and obtained a Certifi cate in Chartered Accountants.
Complementary to his academic Strategic Management from the New career as full professor in economics Committee memberships: York New School University.
at the Universities of St. Gallen Remuneration Committee and Bern, Prof Leu has acted as Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee memberships: economic adviser to executive and Clinical Performance and Committee, Nomination Committee legislative bodies on all policy levels Sustainability Committee in Switzerland and to international institutions, in particular to the WHO, the OECD and the World Bank.
Since 1993 he has served on the Board of Directors of various companies, in particular Hirslanden, Arcovita President and Visana Vice President since 2014.
He is also President of the Alliance for a Free Health Care System in Switzerland since 2013.
Prof Leu was appointed as an independent non-executive director of Mediclinic International 61 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SENIOR MANAGEMENT AS AT 31 MARCH 2016 Gert Hattingh Dr Ronnie van der Merwe Koert Pretorius Dr Dirk le Roux David Hadley Dr Ole Wiesinger The Group Chief Executive Officer, Dr Dirk le Roux David Hadley Dr Ole Wiesinger Danie Meintjes, is supported Group ICT Executive Chief Executive Officer: Mediclinic Chief Executive Officer: Hirslanden by an experienced and capable Middle East including Al Noor Dr Ole Wiesinger joined the executive management team, with Dr Dirk le Roux joined Mediclinic in August 2014 as the Group David Hadley joined the Mediclinic Hirslanden group in 2004 as extensive industry experience and the Hospital Manager of Klinik organisational knowledge.
Prior to joining Group in 1993, and worked in a Mediclinic, he served in various variety of administrative roles in Hirslanden.
He was appointed continued growth of Mediclinic as the Chief Executive Officer of is testament to the strong managerial roles including as human resources, finance, operations Managing Director of ThinkWorx and hospital management before the Hirslanden group and also management team and their served as a director of Mediclinic ability to successfully execute Consulting, Chief Information being seconded to Dubai in 2007 to Officer at Media24, General Manager oversee the opening of Mediclinic International Limited from 2008 up the Groups strategy.
He was appointed to the Combination.
Prior to joining for IT Strategy and Risk at ABSA The biographies of Danie Meintjes, Bank Limited, as well as the Head as the Chief Executive Officer of Hirslanden, he served in various Chief Executive Officer, and Mediclinic Middle East in 2009 and management positions of the MGSof IT at the Development Bank of Craig Tingle, Chief Financial Officer Southern Africa.
He holds a DCom has also served as a member of Euromed Group in Germany from retiring on 15 June 2016 are Mediclinics Executive Committee 1995 and was appointed as the Chief Informatics degree from the AR provided on pages 60 to 61.
University of Pretoria, a Master in since 2011.
Mr Hadley holds a Executive Officer of MGS-Euromed Bachelors degree in Commerce from Group from 2003 to 2004.
He holds Business Administration cum laude, a Postgraduate Diploma in Data the University of South Africa and a doctorate in medicine from the a Master in Business Administration University of Erlangen, Germany and Metrics and a Bachelor in Gert Hattingh Civil Engineering.
with distinction from the University a Postgraduate Diploma in Health Group Services Executive of Liverpool.
Economics from the European Gert Hattingh joined the Mediclinic Business School, Germany.
Group in 1991 as group accountant.
Dr Ronnie van der Merwe He served in various management Koert Pretorius positions in the Mediclinic Group Chief Clinical Officer and was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer: Mediclinic Dr Ronnie van der Merwe is a Company Secretary in 2010 and Southern Africa specialist anaesthetist who worked Group Services Executive in 2011. in the medical insurance industry Koert Pretorius joined the Group He holds an Honours Degree in before joining the Group in 1999 in 1998 as the regional manager of Accountancy from the University as Clinical Manager.
He established the central region of Mediclinics of Stellenbosch and completed the the Clinical Information, Advanced operations in South Africa, after Advanced Management Program at Analytics, Health Information which he was appointed as the Chief Harvard Business School.
He is also Management and Clinical Services Operating Officer of the Mediclinic a qualified Chartered Accountant functions at Mediclinic, and is Group in 2003.
He was appointed with the South African Institute of currently appointed as the Mediclinic as the Chief Executive Officer of Chartered Accountants.
Groups Chief Clinical Officer since Mediclinic Southern Africa in 2008 2007.
He was appointed as a director and also served as a director of of Mediclinic International Limited Mediclinic International Limited in 2010 up to the Combination.
He in 2006 up to the Combination.
holds the medical degree M. B. Ch.
B He holds a Bachelor degree in from the University of Stellenbosch, Accounting Science from the a diploma in Anaesthetics from the University of the Free State and College of Anaesthetists of South a Master of Business Leadership Africa DA SA and completed degree from the University of the Fellowship of the College of South Africa.
Anaesthetists of South Africa FCA SA.
He also completed the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
