Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 68 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 69 Directors report Remuneration unaudited Summary of differences between the current and proposed executive remuneration policy Remuneration Current policy Proposed policy Rationale for change Directors element Annual review with changes Increases are dependent on the results of Should a significant change in role or responsibility be made outside of Salary effective 1 September.
the annual review, with changes normally the annual salary review cycle, the RemCo requires flexibility to adjust However, the Company effective 1 September and are normally base salary to align with expanded responsibilities.
remuneration continued is under no obligation to in line with the average increase for the It would also allow the RemCo to reflect the individuals development and award an increase following wider workforce, inflation and market data.
performance in a role e. g. for a new appointment where base salary may the review.
Increases are However, increases may be made above be increased over time rather than set directly at the level of the previous dependent on the results this level at the RemCos discretion to take incumbent or market level.
of the annual review, in line account of individual circumstances such with the average increase as an increase in scope and responsibility During the threeyear vesting period the for the wider workforce, or to reflect the individuals development inflation and market data.
and performance in a role or for alignment executives have made significant progress, to market.
clearly delivering on all strategic objectives.
Executives contribute Executives will no longer be required to Given recent changes in pension regulations impacting both annual Pension between 6% to 7.5% of contribute to their pensions.
Company allowances and lifetime allowances the RemCo has, in line with emerging their base salary.
Company contributions will continue to be offered in market practice, allowed Executives to cease personal contributions contributions range from a range from 9% and 12.5%.
and monetise Company pension contributions on a case by case basis 9% to 12.5%.
Includes various insurance, The CEO is to be given a car allowance.
Alignment with common industry practice.
Other incapacity and season Other benefits may be provided as benefits ticket allowances.
Cash award up to 100% Maximum shortterm cash award to The award has been increased to redress the disproportionate balance Bonus STIP ofsalary increase from 100% to 150% of base salary between long term and short term compensation.
Based on KPI No change in KPIs or their The current performance conditions and weighting are considered Watson, brokers and the major shareholder, The RemCo also regarded the current structure performancemeasures: relativeweighting.
appropriate and are not proposed to change.
LTIP and Bonus awards in respect aswell as consideration of the risk exposure of the remuneration policy to be too heavily of the performance period ended 15% cash flow: 40% of the shortterm award to be The bonus is based on the financial year, and 40% of the award will be arising from the executives remuneration weighted towards the long term and considered 31 August 2016 settled in shares, subject to a two year deferred for a further two years.
The deferred element aligns with the 30% earnings: being in the lower quartile relative to market, it appropriate to redress the balance of the deferral period conditional upon continued Companys strategic threeyear plan and viability statement.
LTIP awards made to Directors in 2013, 30% NAV: and employment subject to RemCo discretion it was concluded that this authority should award levels between the STIP and LTIP.
based upon two relative TSR performance 25% personal objectives.
in the event of an executive being a not be utilised but that the RemCo should The RemCo has therefore concluded that the conditions, achieved a disappointing threeyear GoodLeaver.
immediately undertake a strategic review of maximum normal incentive potential of 350per vesting level in 2016 of 0per cent.
cent of salary should, in future, be split into a Up to 250% of salary, Up to 200% of salary normal LTIP award The maximum normal award has been reduced to redress the balance primarily due to the majority of the comparator LTIP award normal LTIP awards to vest at the end of a three year period between the longterm and shortterm awards.
The intention is to replace maximum 150per cent of salary annual bonus groups, against which the LTIP is measured, Although the RemCo considered the vest at the end of a three dependent on the following performance the two existing TSR targets which have an equal weighting with three currently 100per cent and a maximum 200per having a capital growth, rather than an remuneration components remained year period dependent on conditions: targets which, the RemCo considers, will better align the awards with the cent of salary PSP award currently 250per incomefocused, strategy.
This was exacerbated appropriate, the composition of the two LTIP the performance of the Companys strategic objectives and to shareholders interests: i 50% of the award is to be linked to cent.
In order to ensure that Executive Directors by the geographic diversification of the Group TSR comparator groups were assessed for Companys TSR against growth in underlying earnings per share i The Groups strategy is to create superior income focused returns and remain appropriately aligned with shareholders compared with theselected comparators.
the following performance suitability against the Companys strategic relative to inflation specifically, the with a sector leading distribution as a benchmark, distribution growth interests, 40per cent of any annual bonus will conditions: objectives.
Until recently, the Group had consumer pricesindex : outperforming CPI is considered sufficiently stretching.
This creates a The bonus awards the short term incentive be deferred into shares for two years.
significant exposure to both Australian i 50% of the award is clear link to the Companys strategic objectives of distribution growth, plan STIP for the year ended 31 August ii 25% of the award remains linked to linked to the FTSE reducing the cost of capital and generating superior income returns: and Swiss assets alongside its continuing 2016, based on specific KPIs, achieved an TSR performance relative to the FTSE Proposed resolutions to approve EPRA NAREIT investments in Germany, with a clearly EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe ii This constitutes one of the existing performance measures and, whilst outcome of 55 per cent, similar to previous changes to the remuneration policy Developed Europe Index stated focus on generating income returns Index, an existing benchmark which it does not link directly to any of the Companys strategic objectives, it years.
This resulted in the overall package In order to implement the aforementioned TSR: and for shareholders for which the Company was includes within its broad comparator does directly link shareholder returns to executive remuneration, and for the executives, including salary, benefits, changes, shareholder approval will be required ii 50% of the award is group constituents with European therefore remains appropriate albeit with a reduced weighting : and recognised as a sector leader.
The bespoke bonus and LTIPs, being in the lower quartile at the 2017 AGM for a revised remuneration linked to a bespoke peer property exposure: and TSR comparator group however comprised iii This creates a link to the Companys strategic objectives of enhancing of remuneration for FTSE 250 companies of policy.
The current remuneration policy can group TSR.
of companies targeting capital growth with iii 25% of the award is linked to the total both the quality of its portfolio and distribution growth.
For the CEO the total pay be found in the 2014 annual report, available 25% to 100% of the shares property return performance of the predominantly UK exposure.
UK assets have achieved for 2016 amounted to only 62 per cent It was not considered necessary for an additional holding period to be on the Companys website.
A full version of awarded will only vest, UK portfolio relative to the IPD UK All experienced sustained capital value growth applied to the LTIP awards, as the threeyear vesting period aligns with of the expected target remuneration outlined in the proposed new policy can be found on on a straight line basis, if PropertyIndex.
throughout the performance period, particularly the Companys strategic plan and viability statement.
the implementation scenario on page57 of the page 72.
The main differences between the performance is between the Vesting levels vary between 25% and in London, where the Group had only limited 2014 Annual Report.
No shareholding guidelines have been introduced for the Directors, but median of the benchmark current and proposed remuneration policy are 100% depending on performance exposure.
The intention for future LTIP awards this position is being reviewed by the NomCo.
Directors shareholdings and the performance summarisedopposite.
The RemCo concluded that this resultant achieved.
Full details are in the policy table is to therefore remove the bespoke TSR are shown on page 80. measures predefined on page 72. remuneration outcome, but particularly the comparator group, and continue to use the TSR outperformance target, outcome of the LTIP, did not correctly reflect subject to the RemCos measure relative to the broader EPRA Index, the executives performance nor did it align discretion.
combined with earnings per share and total with shareholder returns achieved for the same return measures in order to better align the The above policy provides flexibility for the RemCo to make payments in connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where the period.
Although the remuneration policy permits awards with the Companys strategic objectives payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a the RemCo to exercise discretion over the LTIP and to shareholders interests.
compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
It also provides clarity on the awards, after consultation with Willis Towers approach that would be adopted upon the internal appointment of a new executive director or for an appointment of a new executive director following ademerger, merger or acquisition or following the appointment of a new nonexecutive director.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 70 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 71 Directors report Remuneration unaudited Directors Policy report remuneration continued on remuneration Not subject to audit It is proposed that the remuneration policy, approved by shareholders at the January 2015 AGM, be amended to more closely reflect the executives Statement of implementation Annual bonus Nonexecutive Director performance and to be more suitably aligned to both strategy and shareholder interests.
A summary of the changes of the executive remuneration of remuneration for the 2017 remuneration Executive Directors will be able to earn a policy can be found on page 69.
No changes are proposed to the nonexecutive policy.
Details of both policies can be found below and, if approved by financial year The table below shows the fee structure for bonus of up to 150 per cent of salary based on shareholders at the AGM on 23 January 2017, will take immediate effect.
If the amended remuneration policy on pages Underlying Distributable Earnings 30 per cent, Nonexecutive Directors for 2017.
71 and 75 is approved by shareholders at the Adjusted NAV growth 30 per cent, Operating Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Nonexecutive Directors 2016 fees 2017 fees AGM on 23 January 2017 it will take immediate Cash Flow 15 per cent and personal objectives Remuneration comprises an annual fee for the Chairman and for Nonexecutive Directors.
Additional fees may be given at the discretion of the Board, effect.
In the event that the amended policy Chairman of the Board 25 per cent.
40 per cent of any bonus will be for specific roles such as the chairman of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
All fees are paid in Sterling.
allinclusive fee 88,000 94,500 is not approved, the current policy will remain deferred in shares for two years.
Set out below is a summary of the Basic nonexecutive fee 40,000 43,000 for financial measures are deemed to be Component Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Termination planned implementation of the amended policy commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective Audit and Risk Committee for the financial year ending 31 August 2017.
Chairman fee 47,500 50,500 disclosure of the targets and performance A fixed market competitive The remuneration committee Fees of the Nonexecutive Directors are not appointed for a Annual fee fee to attract and retain reviews the fees periodically Directors other than alternative specified term but are appointed against them will be provided in a future Remuneration Committee Salary Chairman fee 45,000 48,000 nonexecutives of sufficient compared with a peer group, Directors are determined by the for a term which expires when remuneration report when they are no longer quality to constructively challenge taking into account the time spent, Board, provided that such sums either the Director is i not considered commercially sensitive by the Board.
2016 2017 the executives in delivering the company size, ownership, sector, do not exceed in the aggregate reappointed following retirement Given the augmented size of the Company and Mike Watters 372,383 391,000 5% Groups strategy.
risk and other company specific 420,000 or as the Company may in accordance with the Articles LTIP the accompanying additional responsibilities, factors.
Its recommendations are by ordinary resolution approve.
of Association: ii removed or Stephen Oakenfull 241,080 278,100 15% a 3,000 increase has been approved by the The LTIP awards will be made post the AGM then presented to the Board for vacates office: iii resigns or Adrian Horsburgh 241,080 253,100 5% Board for each Nonexecutive Director and a and will therefore be subject to the new final approval.
does not offer themselves for Donald Grant 224,000 235,200 5% 6,500 increase for the Chairman, which are still performance targets, if this revised policy is reelection: or iv terminates their below market average.
These increases will take appointment on three months approved by shareholders.
The performance The average salary increase for employees for notice.
There is no provision for effect from 1 September 2016 and will bring targets are shown in the summary table of the the 2017 year was 6.3 per cent.
As executive loss of office payments.
This is within the elements of the new remuneration policy on salaries are in the lowest quartile compared to 420,000 aggregate limit set out in the Articles page 73.
Executive Directors will receive an LTIP The Nonexecutive Directors do not receive remuneration other than fees but are entitled to be paid all reasonable travelling, hotel and other expenses the market, an increase was awarded above of Association and the approved Nonexecutive award over shares worth 200 per cent of salary, properly incurred in attending meetings of the Board, committees of the Board, general meetings or otherwise in connection with the business of that of inflation.
A 15 per cent salary increase remuneration policy, to which no change with the relevant performance targets being theCompany.
was awarded to the Deputy CEO to bring his isproposed.
based on underlying distributable earnings per salary closer to that of the CEO and to recognise share 50 per cent, relative TSR 25 per cent Letters of Appointment Annual General Meeting his increased responsibilities within the and relative total property return 25 per cent Each Nonexecutive Director has a Letter of Appointment, the terms and conditions of which are available for inspection at the Companys executiveteam.
Details of the proposed new remuneration policy all measured over a threeyear period.
can be found on the following pages.
Theannual measures are intended to align the awards with Pension and benefits report on remuneration for the financial year Remuneration policy for the Executive Directors the Companys strategic objectives and with Company pension provision will be 12.5 per cent ended 31August 2016 can be found on shareholder interests.
Inparticular: The key principles of the executive remuneration policy are to attract, retain and motivate to ensure the long term success of the Company.
Performance of salary for the CEO and 9 per cent of salary page76.
measures and targets for incentive awards are selected so as to provide alignment with our key strategic goals.
A summary of the elements of the a the EPS measure is designed to incentivise for other Executive Directors.
Other benefits executive remuneration policy is shown overleaf.
The RemCo recommends the resolutions to distribution growth to shareholders: will comprise life assurance, private medical approve the new remuneration policy and the insurance, car allowance CEO only, incapacity b the relative TSR measure retained from annual report on remuneration to shareholders, benefit, season ticket allowance and directors the previous policy but with a reduced and hopes that shareholders will support the and officersinsurance.
weighting measures the total shareholder respective resolutions at the AGM on 23 January return of the Company against an 2017, to ensure that the executives are more appropriate index, and is appropriate fairly rewarded in future.
because it provides a direct link between shareholder returns and compensation: and Michael Farrow c the relative total property return Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
measure is designed to incentivise the 27 October 2016 enhancement of portfolio quality together .
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 72 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 73 Directors report Remuneration unaudited Policy report on remuneration continued Summary A summary of the elements of the executive remuneration policy is shown below and the links to the Companys strategic priorities can be found on page 13.
Component Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Applicable performance measures Claw back Exit payments A fixed market Normally reviewed annually with changes effective 1 September.
None None Termination of the service contract can be given by either Base salary competitive However the Company is under no obligation to award an increase party by way of notice in writing for a period not exceeding 12 Increases are dependent on the results of the annual remuneration base following the review.
Payment may be given in lieu of notice, subject to the review, and are normally in line with the average to attract and Companys sole and absolute discretion, up to a maximum of increase for the wider work force, inflation and retain executives of one years basic salary.
There is no provision in the contracts market data.
However, increases may be made sufficient quality to for loss of office payments, other than those required by above this level at the RemCos discretion to take deliver the Groups employmentlaw.
account of individual circumstances such as an strategy.
increase in scope and responsibility or to reflect the individuals development and performance in a role or for alignment to a market level.
Part of the overall The Company contributes monthly to the Directors personal pension The Company contributes between 9% and 12.5% None None Payments would cease on the leaving date.
At the Companys discretion, a cash allowance of equivalent oftheir base salary.
comprehensive value may be offered.
Values vary by Directors and are remuneration and reviewedperiodically.
Part of the overall Life assurance As the costs of providing benefits will depend on a None None All benefits would cease on the leaving date.
Other package providing Directors individual circumstances, the RemCo has Private medical insurance benefits comprehensive not set a monetary maximum.
Season ticket allowance Directors and officers insurance Car allowance Other benefits may be provided as appropriate A short term Performance will be assessed in line with specific KPIs, 75% of Designed to offer an annual bonus of between 0% to KPIs based on: The deferred shares are If the employment of an executive is terminated for any reason Bonus STIP incentive to reward the award will focus on financial measures and 25% on personal 150% of the executives base salary.
Payable in cash subject to a two year deferral or if he is under notice of termination whether given by the 1.
15% operating cash flow executives on objectives.
The purpose of the personal objectives is to encourage and deferred shares.
period conditional only upon executive or the Company at or before the date when a bonus 2.
30% underlying distributable earnings their personal leadership, loyalty of staff and to communicate with stakeholders, continued employment.
might otherwise be payable, he will have no right to receive a 40% of award to be settled in shares, subject to a performance and particularly shareholders, in a transparent manner.
30% adjusted NAV growth subject to the RemCos bonus or time apportioned bonus, save that the RemCo will two year deferral period.
the Companys discretion such as in the have discretion to award a time apportioned bonus to a Good 4.
25% personal objectives performance in line An executive is entitled to dividends on shares under event of long term illness Leaver for the year of cessation.
The financial KPIs 13 are calibrated according to the level of the STIP award which will accrue over the deferral with shareholder ordeath.
budgetmet period and will be paid on vesting.
Less than 90% budget Nil Meeting budget 75% 120% of budget 150% A long term Structured as a rolling annual award of performance shares with a The aggregate number of shares which may be Awards will vest at the end of a three year period dependent on the In circumstances where If the executive leaves employment of the Company other LTIP award incentive to align threeyear performance period.
awarded may not exceed 23,000,000 over the following performance conditions: an error has been made than as set out below, the award will lapse or cease to be the executives 10year life of the LTIP.
in determining the extent exercisable on the leaving date.
Awards are granted as: 50% of the award is to be linked to underlying distributable interests with those to which the performance Individual awards in any financial year shall not earnings per share.
25% of the award will vest upon attaining If the executive leaves employment for reasons such as ill Nil cost options to acquire shares: or of the shareholders conditions were met, financial be greater than 200% of the executives base earnings per share comparable with the immediate preceding health, redundancy or retirement or any other reason at the and to promote the results have been materially Contingent rights to receive shares salary, but in exceptional circumstances an award financial year, with 100% vesting achieved for average annual discretion of the RemCo or in the event of a takeover, scheme long term success misstated or the executive can be made up to 400% of the executives base outperformance of CPI during the performance period of 1%: of arrangement, demerger or winding up of the Company, the Such awards may carry award dividends entitling the executive to of the Company.
has contributed to serious salary, providing that such an award does not RemCo, acting fairly and reasonably, will determine whether dividends which would have been received on the shares during the 25% of the award to be linked to FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed reputational damage to the exceed 7,000,000 shares.
and to what extent a performance target shall then be deemed vesting period, payable either in cash or shares.
25% of the award will vest for median Company or engaged in to be satisfied.
Subject to that determination, the award will performance with 100% vesting achieved for upper quartile serious fraud or misconduct, vest in proportion to the extent of the vesting period which has performance: and the RemCo, in its absolute expired at the date of the relevant event.
25% of the award to be linked to the relative total property discretion, may determine return of the Companys UK assets in comparison to IPD UK All In the event that an executive is not reelected by shareholders that an award will cease Property Index.
25% of the award will vest once performance at an annual general meeting of the Company, the vesting of or lapse or impose further reaches that of the benchmark with 100% vesting achieved for any awards will be subject to the discretion of the RemCo.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 74 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 75 Directors report Remuneration unaudited It is unlikely that additional compensation would Short term incentive: Bonuses are based on the Executive service contracts be offered for the forfeiture of any award from Groups performance and that of the individual and recruitment remuneration a previous employer but if such buyout awards and are awarded on similar principles as those arrangements Policy report were to be granted, the RemCo would generally given to the executive, but are subject to the All executive directors have a service contract, seek to structure the awards on a comparable discretion of the executive.
Payment of the comprising the remuneration elements detailed basis to awards forfeited.
bonus is usually conditional upon the employee in the remuneration policy.
There is no fixed being employed by the Group and notice not length of service but the contract can be Where an executive director is an internal on remuneration continued having been served on the date the bonus terminated by either party giving the other notice promotion, the normal policy is that any legacy ispaid.
in writing for a period not exceeding 12 months.
arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if Long term incentive: Employees are eligible to On termination of the service contracts, an executive director is appointed following the participate in the Restricted Stock Plan RSP the applicable payments for each of the Implementation scenarios of the executive remuneration policy Overriding RemCo discretion Companys acquisition of or merger with another at the discretion of the RemCo.
Under the RSP remuneration elements are shown above.
showing minimum, target and possible maximum remuneration The RemCo may, acting fairly and reasonably, company, legacy terms and conditions would share awards may be given as either a nil cost However the Company reserves the right to and having due regard to the performance behonoured.
option award or as a contingent award.
RSP make additional payments where such payment of the Group during the vesting period, awards are subject to performance targets is made in good faith in discharge of an existing Mike Watters CEO Stephen Oakenfull Deputy CEO In the event of the appointment of a new determine to what extent the performance set by the RemCo of which 50 per cent of the obligation or by way of damages for breach of nonexecutive director, remuneration targets are deemed to be satisfied, and the award is conditional on a corporate element 000 000 such an obligation or by way of settlement or arrangements will normally be in line with the number of shares that vest.
The RemCo may 3,000 2,000 with KPIs aligned to those of the executives Long term Long term compromise of any claim arising in connection 1,840,257 structure set out in the Policy Table for non adjust upward or downwards the extent to LTIP, and the remaining 50 per cent is derived 2,620,373 with the termination of an executive directors Short term Short term executive directors.
which a LTIP award would otherwise vest if 2,500 from the grade achieved in each individuals office or employment.
Any such payments Fixed Fixed it considers that such level of vesting is not annual performance review averaged across Reelection of Directors 1,500 may include but are not limited to paying any reflective of overall corporate performance the performance period, the personal element.
2,000 fees for outplacement assistance and or the In May 2014, the Company entered the FTSE or of the executives personal performance.
60% Shareholders approved the RSP at the EGM 60% directors legal and or professional advice fees 250 and therefore, in line with the Code B.
7.1 Inappropriate circumstances, the RemCo may held on 29 November 2013 and authorised in connection with his cessation of office or requirement, all the Directors will be subject 1,500 1,000 amend a performance condition provided that Directors to allot shares for the purposes of the employment.
to reelection by shareholders at the AGM.
797,382 1,154,125 the amended condition is not materially less RSP up to a maximum number of 23,000,000 In the event that an executive director is not The executive service contracts are available for 1,000 or more challenging to satisfy than the original 35% 34% ordinary shares.
No shares have yet vested reelected, it should be noted the executive 23% inspection at the Companys registered office.
Furthermore, if before 500 under the scheme.
Directors service contracts all require a notice 25% 26% 469,875 310,707 500 the end of the performance period, there is a For future executive recruitment the same period of between six months and one year, Notice of Termination: For all employees, a demerger, statutory reconstruction, change of elements and parameters would be applicable 100% 39% 17% 100% 41% 18% and for any bonus or LTIP award which has not notice period of up to three months is required control, compulsory acquisition or exercise prior as shown above.
The base salary of new 0 0 yet vested the RemCo may determine whether to terminate the contract and payment in Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum to loss of corporation tax relief, the RemCo shall, executives would be compared to the current and to what extent a performance target will lieu of notice will be given in appropriate acting fairly and reasonably, determine whether executives and set at an appropriate level besatisfied.
and to what extent a performance target shall to the role.
Bonuses, benefits and pensions Adrian Horsburgh Property Director Donald Grant CFO then be deemed to be satisfied.
Employees of the European portfolio are paid in would be in line with current executives and Statement of consideration of 000 000 Euros, all others are paid in Sterling.
Employees inclusion in the LTIP scheme would be at the employment conditions elsewhere Subject to the discretion of the RemCo, the 2,000 2,000 are not consulted about executive pay but the Long term Long term in the Company remuneration policy may be amended to RemCos discretion within the limits set out in RemCo takes into account changes in employee Short term Short term the policy table.
There would be discretion to accommodate minor changes, for administrative, All employees have contracts with terms in line 1,679,499 pay when determining executive pay.
1,558,319 apply different performance measures or targets Fixed Fixed regulatory, tax or legislative purposes, without with standard market practice.
Remuneration 1,500 1,500 for an initial incentive award in exceptional obtaining shareholderapproval.
is similar in structure to the executive pay Statement of shareholder views circumstances.
The RemCo may provide costs structures, containing the same three elements: The RemCo reserves the right to make any The Company meets regularly with its major and support if the recruitment requires relocation 60% 60% remuneration payments and payments for loss Fixed element: All employees are offered a shareholders and any feedback on remuneration 1,000 of the individual.
1,000 of office: including exercising any discretions base salary.
These are normally reviewed has been taken into consideration during the 730,374 available to it in connection with such payments annually with changes effective 1 September establishment of this policy.
Marc Wainer and 676,319 notwithstanding that they are not in line with and increases are in line with those offered to Bernie Nackan are Nonexecutive Directors 35% 35% 500 the policy set out above where the terms of the executives.
However, as with the executives, 500 of the Company, representing the major 23% 23% 26% 26% 287,449 payment were agreed: i before the date the the Company is under no obligation to award 264,719 shareholder Redefine Properties, and were Companys first remuneration policy approved an increase following the review.
Benefits present at the Board meeting that reviewed 100% 39% 17% 100% 39% 17% by shareholders in accordance with section 439A and pension entitlements vary with the level theremuneration policy amendments.
0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum of the UK Companies Act 2006 came into effect: ofseniority.
ii before the policy set out above came into Fixed pay consists of current base salary, benefits and pension.
effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholderapproved Benefits include a season ticket, health insurance and a car allowance for Mike Watters only.
remuneration policy in force at the time Pensions are calculated on nine per cent of base salary for Stephen Oakenfull, Adrian Horsburgh and they were agreed: or iii at a time when the DonaldGrant, and 12.5 per cent of base salary for Mike Watters.
relevant individual was not a director of the Short term remuneration includes the bonus at 0 per cent of base salary minimum, 75 per cent of Company and, in the opinion of the RemCo, the payment was not in consideration for the base salary target and 150 per cent of base salary maximum.
individual becoming a director of the Company.
Long term remuneration is based on at 0 per cent of base salary minimum, 100 per cent of base Forthesepurposes payments includes salary target and 200 per cent of base salary maximum.
the RemCo satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed atthe time the award is granted.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 76 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 77 Directors report Remuneration Bonus The maximum bonus for the year ended 31 August 2016 was capped at 100per cent of annual base salary.
Annual report Bonuses are based on the performance against three financial KPIs and each individuals personal objectives.
Each financial KPI is apportioned a different weight when awarding the bonus: personal objectives contribute 25per cent of the award, operating cash flow represents 15per cent of the award, underlying distributable earnings and adjusted NAV represent 30per cent each.
The personal objectives award is at the RemCos discretion and is designed to encourage leadership, loyalty of staff and communication with on remuneration stakeholders, and shareholders in a transparent manner.
In reaching its decision the RemCo considered the leadership required to steer the Company through the transformational AUK acquisition, the positive results of an employee survey, the increased importance and time spent on CSR matters, as demonstrated by the Companys first CSR awards and a 65per cent improvement in the GRESB rating, and the commitment shown towards shareholder communications throughout the year.
The executives were all instrumental in achieving the high level of shareholder support at the EGM and the capital The information provided in this part of the Directors remuneration report will detail how the remuneration policy has been implemented during the year raise in February 2016. ended 31 August 2016.
This report, together with the Chairmans annual statement, will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General The financial KPIs are compared to the Board approved budget as follows: Meeting to be held on 23 January 2017.
Level of budget met Bonus awarded Single total figure of remuneration for Nonexecutive Directors Less than 90% budget Nil The table below shows the remuneration paid to all Nonexecutive Directors who served during the financial year ending 31 August 2016, with a Meeting budget 50% comparable annual fee figure for the financial year ended 31 August 2015.
The Nonexecutive Directors do not receive any remuneration other than fees but are entitled to be paid all reasonable travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred in attending meetings of the Board, committees of the 120% of budget 100% Board, general meetings or otherwise in connection with the business of the Company.
The actual target ranges for 2016 for the financial performance measures have not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information.
Retrospective disclosure of the target ranges will be made in next years Remuneration Report once the information is no longer Annual fees Annual fees 2015 2016 considered commercially sensitive.
Greg Clarke Chairman 80,000 88,000 Personal Michael Farrow Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 40,000 45,000 KPI Cash flow Earnings NAV growth objectives Total Gavin Tipper Chairman of the Audit Committee 42,500 47,500 Weight of bonus award % 15 30 30 25 100 Sue Ford 35,000 40,000 2016 performance: % of maximum payout achieved 100 50 0 100 1 Robert Orr appointed 23 April 2015 35,000 40,000 Award to all Executives: % of salary 15 15 0 25 55 Marc Wainer 35,000 40,000 Bernie Nackan 35,000 40,000 Disclosure of 2015 annual bonus financial performance targets Total 302,500 340,500 The RemCo is committed to publishing the financial performance targets once they cease to be commercially sensitive.
The financial performance targets 1 Actual fees paid in 2015 were 12,489. that applied in respect of the year ended 31 August 2015 are no longer commercially sensitive: accordingly, the targets and the Companys performance against these targets are now set out below.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors The table below shows remuneration paid to the Executive Directors during the financial year ending 31 August 2015 and 2016.
The 2015 annual bonus awards were based 75 per cent on financial performance and 25 per cent on the individuals performance during the year.
Payments have been adjusted prorata where Directors have only served for part of the year.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration Some of the salaries shown above have been adjusted prorata from the applicable start date for the Executive Directors.
The actual annual salary for the year ending 31 August 2015 and 2016 for each of the Directors is shown below: Annual Salary for the year ending 31 August 2015 2016 1 Mike Watters 354,650 372,383 Stephen Oakenfull 229,600 241,080 Adrian Horsburgh 229,600 241,080 Donald Grant Appointed 3 August 2015 224,000 224,000 1 Mike Watters also received a net amount of R266,400 for the 2016 financial year circa 12,600, in his capacity as Nonexecutive Director of Redefine Properties Limited.
He will not be offering himself for reelection at the Redefine Properties AGM in 2017.
