2 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Message from the Chairman The strategy to return the Group to profitable growth is on track Results overview The strategy to return the Group to profitable growth is on track.
We delivered results ahead of expectations in a difficult trading environment, benefiting from a good summer performance, stronger trading in December, improved utilisation and early progress with our margin improvement initiatives.
The ongoing restructuring of our operations will make the Group more efficient and effective.
This work, together with targeted growth in specic customer groups and our strengthened capital base, will help ensure our planned recovery and offset the challenges facing the Group.
Alun Cathcart Total revenue was up 1.9% at 1,276 million.
Underlying profit before tax was 37.8 million 2004: 52.1 million, with the impact of the weaker pricing environment and investment in recovery strategy initiatives partially mitigated by volume growth and a good utilisation performance.
Underlying earnings per share were 3.4 euro cents 2004: 5.6 euro cents.
The net exceptional charge before tax of 13.2 million was primarily due to restructuring costs and rights issue expenses.
Certain re-measurement items and economic hedges generated a net valuation gain of 5.2 million.
Total profit before tax was therefore 29.8 million 2004: loss before tax 20.0 million and total earnings per share were 2.3 euro cents 2004: loss per share 2.4 euro cents.
Capital structure and dividend The deficit on the distributable reserves of the Company, announced at the end of 2004 and preventing the payment of a dividend, was addressed by way of a reduction in the share premium account.
This was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 25 May 2005, by the Court and became effective on 23 June 2005.
Avis Europe plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 2005 results ahead of expectations in a difficult trading environment In order to strengthen the balance sheet and provide capital for to improve the basics of the business is well underway and the Groups recovery strategy, a 4 for 7 rights issue at 35 pence we have seen the first encouraging signs of initial benets, per share was announced on 16 June 2005.
The issue of new which are set out on pages 4 to 6 of this report.
Alongside shares was successfully completed with 97.2% being taken Phase I, we are now beginning to implement the second phase up by the closing date of 26 July 2005 and the balance being of the recovery strategy, which aims to both grow revenues in placed in the market the following day.
Net proceeds from the chosen customer groups and to substantially restructure the rights issue were 166 million, after expenses.
Both elements are built upon fundamental analysis of the business.
The Board confirms its intention, announced at the time of the rights issue, not to recommend payment of a final dividend Employees and Directors for the year ended 31 December 2005 in view of the continued I would like to take this opportunity to thank Murray Hennessy, difficult market conditions.
The Boards current expectation who has done an outstanding job in leading the development is to recommence the payment of dividends when the financial and initial implementation of a robust recovery strategy in a and trading position of the Group allows.
highly competitive market, supported by the strengthened Board and senior management team.
Outlook Overall expectations for 2006 remain broadly unchanged.
The commitment and dedication of employees throughout our The Group continues to face a number of challenges: a network has remained high during a further challenging year, negative pricing environment reinforced by experience in the for both the Avis and Budget businesses.
We recognise that the first couple of months: inationary cost pressures and specic recently announced restructuring process has been a difficult cost increases, reecting tougher eet market conditions: and a time for our employees and would like to thank them for their higher finance cost.
These factors are expected to be materially understanding while we implement the necessary changes.
offset by: improving volume trends from the latter part of last year, which are expected to continue: the anticipated initial Once again our employees commitment to our customers savings from the restructuring programme: and lower spend has been reected in the number of industry awards the Group on initiatives.
continues to win for outstanding service.
Strategic development On behalf of the Board I would like to express our gratitude The Group has made significant progress with the for the efforts of such loyal and talented people for the work implementation of our recovery strategy, to address the they are doing to ensure the success of our recovery strategy.
structural change taking place within the car rental industry and enable margins to recover and profitable growth to be Alun Cathcart restored.
The first phase, comprising a series of initiatives Chairman
