Chairmans Statement Building our future It is my pleasure to report another year of achievement for your company, with robust increases in customer numbers, mobile revenue and operating cash flow, enabling us to substantially increase returns to shareholders.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Chairman Dividends March 05 4.07p per share per share March 04 2.0315p per share March 03 1.6929p per share Share March 05 4bn Purchases March 04 1.1bn Nil March 03 and technology functions last year.
We are building on these Executing our strategic goals achievements through our One Vodafone programme to drive Last year we outlined six strategic goals, designed then to further benefits from our global footprint.
ensure the delivery of increased value to our customers and shareholders as we move into a new era in mobile Extending our global reach telecommunications.
I believe we have made significant progress, particularly with the consumer launch of 3G and the We have continued to pursue selective opportunities to ongoing implementation of our One Vodafone programme.
expand our geographic footprint, with a particular focus on Central and Eastern Europe.
In March, we announced that In November, we announced the full roll-out of our consumer 3G offering across 13 markets.
This was an important step in we had entered into conditional agreements with TIW of our 3G strategy and followed the success of the Vodafone Canada to acquire 79% of the share capital of MobiFon S. A.
Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card introduced in February in Romania, in which we already have a 20% interest, and last year.
The enhancements that 3G brings will enable us to 100% of the share capital of Oskar Mobil a. s. in the Czech build on the success we have achieved with Vodafone live!
Both companies are fast growing mobile operators since the service started in October 2002.
We now have that will benefit further from the global services and scale almost 31 million active Vodafone live!
users and have a total benefits that Vodafone can deliver.
We expect that completion of 2.4 million 3G devices registered on our networks.
will take place before the end of June 2005.
and Vodafone Mobile Connect are prime In October, the merger of Vodafone Holdings K. K. and examples of how we offer services that are focused on specific Vodafone K. K. in Japan was completed following our customer needs.
The most recent examples of this approach successful tender offer to increase our shareholdings in have been the launch of Vodafone Simply, which caters for both companies.
This clearly demonstrates our long-term those customers who want an uncomplicated and straightcommitment to the strategically important mobile market forward mobile experience, and the simplification of our in Japan.
The merger has created a simplified company roaming tariffs with the introduction of Vodafone Travel Promise.
structure which has already contributed towards greater operational effectiveness and financial efficiencies and, Our ability to launch common services across so many although the business is currently not performing as well as markets at the same time is evidence of how Vodafone is beginning to deliver the advantages of scale and scope and, we would wish, I am confident that, in time, our investment in particular, shows the benefit of creating central marketing will prove to be very rewarding.
Strategy 1 | Chairmans Statement Building our future In December, we signed a Partner Network Agreement with Foundations committed total funds of over 2.5 million, SmarTone in Hong Kong, bringing the number of our Partner including the provision of free calls to and from the affected Networks to fourteen.
SmarTone, now fully rebranded region as well as employee matched donations in a number of SmarTone-Vodafone, is one of Hong Kongs leading mobile countries.
A summary of our corporate responsibility activity in the year is set out later in this report, with full details operators in multimedia services.
available in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which I believe you will be pleased to read.
Responsible behaviour Mobile telecommunications brings many positive social, Delivering value to shareholders environmental and economic benefits, although for some it Your Board believes that with the continuing financial also brings concerns about possible health effects.
Our approach strength of your Company it is possible to increase returns to is to continue to support research aligned with the World shareholders through enhanced dividend payments and share Health Organisation's priorities and to provide customers and purchases.
In November, the interim dividend was increased local communities everywhere we operate with up to date, by 100% and the directors are now recommending that the reliable information in plain language.
We are committed to final dividend is also increased by 100%.
communicating clearly to ensure people have the information they want to make decisions on mobile telecommunications.
We have also continued with our share purchase programme and in the year to 31 March 2005 purchased approximately For Vodafone, corporate responsibility is about understanding 3 billion shares at a cost of 4 billion.
We shall be seeking the expectations of our stakeholders and taking appropriate shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM action to meet those expectations.
We are, therefore, for the purchase of up to a further 4.5 billion of shares integrating corporate responsibility into the business and during the current financial year and I look forward to this is reflected in our strategic goals, our values and our your support.
During the year, Vodafone and its operating companies made Effective leadership charitable donations of 33 million to The Vodafone Group Foundation, local Vodafone Foundations and social projects.
As part of a new organisational structure designed to assist To support the humanitarian rescue operation following the in the delivery of the Groups strategic goals, Sir Julian HornAsia Tsunami disaster, Vodafone, its employees and Smith was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 1 January Informing parents and children in the UK Many parents are concerned that their children might receive inappropriate content on their mobile phones or be induced to take part in chat rooms or internet games.
The industry has developed services to help parents address these issues but many people are not aware these services exist.
Vodafone UK produced a Parents Guide to Mobile Phones to help inform people.
We worked with the National Family and Parenting Institute NFPI which has expertise in dealing with child-related issues.
The Guide provides clear and comprehensive information for parents about new services available on mobile phones which mean children can use their mobiles without putting themselves at risk.
Over 22,000 hard copies of the Guide were distributed and the booklet is available as a pdf on the Vodafone UK and NFPI websites.
Vodafone UK also worked with other mobile operators to produce B-Aware, an educational pack for schools, tackling difficult issues such as bullying and the use of internet chat rooms on mobiles.
Over 1,200 schools requested the packs.
In this role, Sir Julian leads a new function, Global Verizon Wireless, will succeed Ken Hydon.
Andy Halford joined Business Development, which is responsible for delivering Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director, Vodafone UK.
In 2001 Vodafones products and services portfolio into the Groups he was given regional responsibility as Financial Director for affiliates and Partner Networks.
The Global Business the UK, Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa before moving Development team has also assumed responsibility for to his position with Verizon Wireless in 2002. expanding and consolidating our footprint through our On 1 January, I was delighted to welcome Sir John Bond to Partner Network programme and any acquisition activities.
the Board as a non-executive director.
Sir John, who is Group It was a great pleasure for us all that the Queen awarded Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, one of the worlds largest Julian a Knighthood in her last birthday honours list.
banks, brings with him many years experience and a track The honour was very much deserved and is appropriate record of success in international markets, particularly in Asia recognition of the outstanding contribution he has made to and the Americas.
His skills will be of great benefit to the Board.
the success of your Company.
At the conclusion of the AGM to be held in July, our Financial For the first time, all the directors are retiring and Director, Ken Hydon, will retire.
Ken was one of the first seeking re-election this year.
This is a responsible step directors of your Company and he has done a superb job in forward as we seek to maintain the highest standards of helping to guide the Company from its origins to the world corporate governance.
His financial discipline and acumen has It is only with the support and commitment of all employees, enabled Vodafone to invest significantly in customers, at all levels, that we are able to continue the growth of infrastructure and acquisitions whilst maintaining financial Vodafone.
In thanking them all, I look forward to their ongoing strength and flexibility at all times.
He will be missed by contribution to achieving further progress in the current year.
his colleagues and we wish him a very happy and well deserved retirement.
Also retiring at the AGM will be Sir David Scholey, a nonexecutive director since 1998.
Davids wise counsel will also be missed and we thank him for his service and contribution to the Board over many years.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL We have announced that Andy Halford, who, until the end of December, was Chief Financial Officer at our US affiliate, Chairman Vodafone Simply Most important functions are on 5 buttons on the handset reducing the need to use the menu Features Home button.
Takes you back to the main screen.
This button lights up when you receive a message.
Simply press the button to listen to your voicemail messages, or view text or picture messages.
Press the button to get access to your friends and familys contact details.
Use this button to set the ringing volume to normal or loud, or turn it to silent and have the phone vibrate instead.
This button allows you to lock the handset, so that you don't accidentally call anyone.
Benefits Large screen, easy to read with large text Large buttons Helpful tips on the phone Strategy 3 |
