The annual dividend paid of 34.85 cents per share or 19.152 pence per share represents an increase both in dollar and sterling terms over the past year of 26%.
During 2005, we have repurchased some $11.6 billion Chairmans letter of shares.
Of these, 7% were cancelled and the remainder were placed into treasury.
I mentioned earlier that this had been a testing year for the board.
In strategic terms, the advent of sustained high oil prices presents new and different demands for the development of the groups business over the long term.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER BP has just completed a demanding year.
BPs business has always been one with a long stride: During 2005, we have seen the price of crude oil rise to levels the groups continued development for the long-term benefit that only two or three years ago would not have seemed at of shareholders over the next five to 10 years and beyond all likely.
As a result, and coupled with a sound operational has been an area of strategic focus for the board throughout performance implementing our long-term strategy, we have the year.
seen the group produce record results.
However, the group While our core strategy, explained in the Performance suffered the explosion at the Texas City refinery in the US.
review section on pages 8-26 of BP Annual Report and Our people and our performance were also affected by Accounts 2005, remains substantially unchanged, it is the Asian tsunami, by the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico constantly reassessed in the light of developing circumstances.
that buffeted our offshore and onshore facilities, impairing For example, the launch of the BP Alternative Energy business production and distribution, and by other events.
2005 was represents a greater focus on the manner in which this therefore a year of contrasts, which has been testing for business is viewed and the importance we attach to your board and immensely challenging for our executive alternative forms of energy production for the future.
management team, led by John Browne.
While scrutiny and shaping of strategy are principal BPs ability to meet these challenges and, through concerns of the board, the detailed monitoring work of them all, to deliver excellent performance depends on the our board committees has continued, with the amount of work of the 96,200 people we employ.
It also depends on business they consider increasing annually.
For instance, the the exemplary leadership provided by John Browne and ethics and environment assurance committee under Walter the tremendously able team he heads.
Their determination, Masseys chairmanship enhanced its focus in the area of experience and creativity are needed to rise to the challenges personal and process safety procedures in the light of the our business faces.
I would like to thank John, his team Texas City incident, while the challenge of meeting new and all our staff around the world for their contribution financial reporting and accounting measures has been in 2005 and to recognize the value they have created for overseen by the audit committee, chaired by Sir Ian Prosser.
Given the spread and complexity of the groups interests During 2005, we continued our policy of returning cash and assets, the work of the board committees is a major task in excess of our investment requirements to our shareholders and I would like to thank the chairmen and members of these both through buybacks and through our progressive dividend committees for their efforts over the past year.
I am pleased to confirm a dividend, to be paid in work carried out by those committees allows the board as 2 Making energy more a whole to focus on the strategic issues, which in turn leads executive and non-executive succession for the future.
to an effective use of board time.
The work of each of the The nomination committee in particular is continuing to committees is described in more detail in the Governance: review the skills needed on the board to rise to the evolving board performance report on pages 38-44 of the Notice challenges faced by BP and the work of the board in the of Meeting and in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005. coming years.
I am pleased that, during the year, we have been able If 2005 was a demanding year, I am sure that 2006 will to contribute to the debate on corporate governance best continue to stretch the abilities of both the board and the practice.
The past few years have seen a swathe of regulations executive team.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank in response to high-profile corporate scandals and failures.
These interventions have led to detailed examinations of corporate governance regimes in the UK, US and Europe as well as the rest of the world.
The frameworks within which companies and boards operate vary significantly, just as the systems of legal and financial regulation differ.
Above all, governance systems and processes must be fit for purpose Peter Sutherland for each different company in the legal and capital markets Chairman in which they operate.
Where markets do not offer adequate 6 February 2006 safeguards to shareholders, governance practices must evolve to fill that gap.
While the board evaluation exercise we undertook this year indicated areas in which our practices should develop, the internal and external endorsement our board has received reassures us that the governance of your company is state-of-the-art.
Our work on board succession and development continues.
During 2005, we said farewell to our two longestserving directors, Sir Robin Nicholson and Chuck Knight, whose substantial contributions we acknowledged last year.
At the forthcoming AGM, Michael Miles will step down.
Michael has served on the BP board since June 1994.
He has made significant contributions to both the audit and the ethics and environment assurance committees.
His experiences of working in the Far East have been of particular value to us in recent years as the markets in that region have become so important.
We shall miss Michaels contributions at the board and his commitment to board and committee work.
Against this background, the work of the chairmans committee and the nomination committee, both of which I chair, continues.
Processes have been established for BP Annual Review 2005 3
