Chairmans statement 04 Board of directors 2005 was another year of excellent The past year has seen significant change for our Board.
Increased I am delighted that Sir Tom McKillop agreed to join last year as our Deputy Chairman.
Subject to his election, he will take earnings and strong capital generation over from me as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2006.
As chief executive of AstraZeneca PLC he have enabled us to continue investing enjoyed wide experience of operating successfully in different for organic growth, as well as raise our international markets and his comprehensive understanding of financial services from his previous directorship of a major dividend significantly and embark on a bank will be of great value to us.
programme of repurchasing our shares.
We bade farewell to Sir Angus Grossart, Lord Vallance, Eileen Mackay and Iain Robertson as non-executive directors, and Financial performance Fred Watt as Group Finance Director.
Their contribution during In 2005, Group operating profit increased by 16% to 8,251 a period of dramatic growth and change for RBS has been million 2004 7,108 million.
Total income grew by 14% to highly appreciated, as has their experience of the economic 25,569 million 2004 22,515 million, while operating expenses cycle and its impact on business.
On behalf of the Board also grew by 14% to 11,298 million 2004 9,871 million.
I would like to pay tribute to their loyal service and express our thanks for the valued contribution they have made.
We have maintained a high level of efficiency across the Group, reaping the benefits of scale from our Manufacturing Over the same period we have welcomed the appointment of operations while continuing to invest in our businesses.
two new non-executive directors, Janis Kong and, with effect from 1 March 2006, Bill Friedrich.
I am confident that, with their All acquisition integration benefits are being achieved at or different backgrounds and experience across our key markets, ahead of expectations.
The integration of Churchill, acquired both will greatly strengthen the Board as we embark on our in September 2003, was completed in September 2005 with next phase of growth.
benefits in excess of those forecast at acquisition.
On 1 February 2006 Guy Whittaker joined the Board as Group Capital Finance Director.
He is an experienced senior executive of the Our first use of additional capital is to invest in profitable highest calibre, with great breadth of international experience business growth, and we see many opportunities to do so in financial services.
On 14 February 2006 the Group was also across the Group.
Whilst having no plans for large acquisitions, very pleased to announce the appointments of Johnny Cameron, we will continue to evaluate good opportunities to supplement Chief Executive of Corporate Markets, and Mark Fisher, Chief organic growth, using strict investment criteria and leveraging Executive of Manufacturing, as executive directors, with effect our proven integration capabilities.
In addition, it has always from 1 March 2006. been our plan to be capital generative beyond the development needs of our businesses, and our 2005 results represent an Outlook important milestone in that ambition as we are able to return Leaving an organisation which has been so important to me capital to shareholders in the form of an increased dividend for the last 18 years will mark a milestone for me also, but and share buyback.
I am pleased to be doing so at a time when the business is in such good shape.
We have demonstrated our ability Staff profit sharing to generate capital consistently from a stable and diverse Reflecting the strong financial performance of the Group, platform and I believe we are well placed to take advantage we are delighted that our staff are once again sharing in our of the many opportunities that lie ahead, for the benefit of our success with a profit share for the year at 10% of basic salaries.
Sir George Mathewson, Chairman Chairmans statement 05 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Group review
