Chairmans statement We continue to make good progress in the implementation of our 2005 was an excellent year for Anglo American.
Supported by strong metal prices, the Group once again achieved record earnings.
The Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT process.
SEAT is being period was dominated by the continued strength of metal markets implemented at around 40 major sites in 16 countries.
The local reports and by our strategic review.
Conditions were significantly more being generated help to improve our interactions with surrounding challenging for our Paper and Packaging and Industrial Minerals communities, our local development impacts and our risk management.
However, despite the strong commercial performance, the Board continues to be profoundly dissatisfied with the Groups We are involved in a variety of international partnerships, including the safety performance.
A new drive is under way to deliver further UN Global Compact, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, improvements in 2006. the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
We were also strong advocates of the G8 acting The outcome of our strategic review is addressed in detail in the chief to address poverty in Africa, including pledging $2.5 million to support executives statement.
It will lead towards a Group that is more the New Partnership for Africas Development NEPAD Investment focused on core extractive competencies and better able to realise Climate Facility.
We were pleased to receive Business in the value for shareholders.
Communitys International Award as the company judged to be making the biggest contribution to the Millennium Development Goals Although economic cycles are still with us, we are seeing a more in Africa.
sustained uplift in many commodity prices than has been experienced for some years.
This has been driven chiefly by the impact of Chinese Governance growth.
Indeed, coupled with growing optimism about Indias There have been extensive changes amongst the executive directors.
prospects, we appear to be on the cusp of a realignment in the world Tony Lea and Barry Davison retired from the Board at the end of 2005. economy.
This has major implications for our Group.
The growth of the Both are continuing to play a role in the Group and we are grateful to leading emerging market economies is relatively materials-intensive them for their service as directors and for the major contributions which as they devote a higher proportion of their growing wealth to they have made to the Company.
We welcomed Ren Mdori to the infrastructure.
Chinas consumer preferences also mean that it remains Board as finance director and David Hathorn and Simon Thompson, the leading market for platinum jewellery and a major source of demand respectively chairmen of the Paper and Packaging, and Base Metals and for diamonds.
Moreover, Chinese, Indian, Russian and Brazilian Industrial Minerals divisions.
multinational companies are emerging both as significant competitors and as potential partners.
There have also been changes amongst our non-executive directors.
Maria Silvia Bastos Marques is standing down at the annual general Safety meeting and I am grateful for the perspectives that she brought to During 2005, 46 people lost their lives at our managed operations our deliberations.
As anticipated in last years annual report, Ralph compared with 49 in 2004.
These figures are unacceptable, Alexander joined the Board in April 2005 as an independent noninconsistent with our values and must be improved.
To this end: executive director and we were also pleased to welcome Peter Woicke, formerly chief executive officer of the International Finance we have established a new peer-review mechanism to identify and Corporation, to the Board at the beginning of 2006.
For a few spread best practice: months during 2005, due to the importance of ensuring continuity, we all our senior executives have been through DuPont safety training were not compliant with the Combined Codes provisions on the and a similar leadership programme is being implemented across the composition of the Board.
As promised, recent changes have restored organisation: us to full compliance.
we have established a framework of 12 safety management standards: and we have developed a comprehensive Safety Improvement Plan.
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart This plan is based on three pillars: the creation of a mindset that Chairman accepts zero injuries as a realistic objective: ensuring that we learn from each incident and take action to prevent repeats: and adherence to a set of simple, non-negotiable standards.
Sustainable development In the face of climate change, we must play our part in reducing carbon emissions.
We have a number of perspectives: as major consumers of energy: as coal producers: as producers of platinum a key element in autocatalysts and fuel cells and as managers of forests.
In terms of actions already under way: we have set initial targets for improving energy efficiency: investment proposals must include an assumed cost of carbon: we are investing in coal-bed methane projects: and in Australia, we are evaluating an ambitious project involving conversion of coal to liquid fuels and potential carbon capture and storage.
02 02 | | Anglo American plc Anglo American plc Annual Repor Annual Report 2005 t 2005
