Directors Statement on Corporate Governance The full Board met on eight occasions and these meetings were attended by Statement of Appliance of the Principles in the Combined Code all directors.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in The Chairman also talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in July 2003 by complying with with the other non executive directors without the executives present.
The the Code of Best Practice as reported in the Statement of Compliance on Chairmans performance was appraised by the non executive directors early page 30.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is in 2005 as he was only appointed in July 2004. set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration Report on page 31.
There were no circumstances arising during the year where it was necessary to record unresolved concerns in the Boards minutes.
Directors The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group and The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its leadership.
clear division of responsibilities which was approved and agreed in writing by It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and reviews the Board during 2004.
Mr M A Stacey as Chairman was not independent as performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for setting the defined in Code Provision A.
3.1 on his appointment as he was Chief Executive Groups values and standards and for ensuring its obligations to shareholders, until January 2001, but Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on employees and others are met.
appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
The non executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging and The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its contributing to the development of strategy.
The performance of management effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all is monitored, as is the integrity of financial information and effectiveness directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, of financial controls and risk management systems.
The non executive principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the for the executive directors and have an important role in the appointment contribution of non executive directors and the relationship between of new directors.
them and the executive directors.
The Board meets regularly and receives reports from the Chief Executive on the Groups activities and from the Group Finance Director on financial 3.
Board Balance and Independence performance and treasury matters.
Strategic issues and other items The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non executive including such matters as capital structure, financial reporting and directors, is of a size and includes skills and experience appropriate for controls are considered in line with a schedule of matters reserved for the the requirements of the business.
decision of the Board which was updated and approved by the Board during the year.
If a decision is not reserved for the Board then authority lies, in Details of the non executive directors considered to be independent are accordance with an authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee provided above.
For the period from 1 January 2004 to 30 June 2004 when of the Board, the Chief Executive, an executive director or the managing Mr M A Stacey resigned the Board consisted of five executive and five non directors of the individual business units.
executive directors of whom four were considered to be independent.
From 30 June 2004 there have been three independent non executive directors in The Chairman is Sir Colin Terry and the Chief Executive is Mr T Twigger.
The senior independent non executive director is Sir Alan Cox.
On 1 March 2005 Dr R W Greaves and Mr J J Stobie resigned from the Board The independent non executive directors are considered by the Board to be so that half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will consist of independent Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill and Mr D A Robins.
Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2004 and Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on appointment as Chairman attendance is shown in the following table: on 1 July 2004.
of whilst Meetings The senior independent non executive director is Sir Alan Cox.
He is available appointed attended to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Audit Sir Alan Cox Chairman 3 3 Mr P J Hill from 26.8.
Appointments to the Board Mr D A Robins 3 3 The Nominations Committee considers any new appointments to the Board Sir Colin Terry until 26.8.
04 2 2 but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint is taken by the Board as a whole.
A majority of members are independent non executive Remuneration directors and the Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
During the year the Mr D A Robins Chairman 5 5 Board approved terms of reference for the Nominations Committee which Sir Alan Cox 5 5 are available on the Companys website.
04 2 2 Prior to the appointment of Mr P J Hill and Mr S G Young on 1 January 2004, Sir Colin Terry until 30.6.
04 2 2 the Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and agreed a description of the roles and Nominations capabilities for the respective appointments.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman from 26.8.
04 2 2 Prior to the appointment of Sir Colin Terry as chairman, a job specification Mr M A Stacey Chairman until 30.6.
04 1 1 was prepared, including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
Sir Alan Cox 2 2 Sir Colins other significant commitments were disclosed to the Board Mr D A Robins 2 2 before appointment.
He is Chairman of the Engineering Council UK.
04 2 2 Nominations Committee were unanimous in deciding that Sir Colin Terry Mr T Twigger 2 2 had the appropriate skills and experience to be appointed Chairman and did not consider it in the best interests of the Company to use an external search agency or to advertise.
28 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are B.
Directors Remuneration available for inspection.
The letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment required and on appointment their other significant 1.
The Level and Make-up of Remuneration commitments were disclosed along with the time involved.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration No executive director has a non executive directorship or chairmanship packages needed to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the of a FTSE 100 company.
A significant portion of an individual directors remuneration External search agencies were used for the appointments of both Mr P J Hill is performance related through a combination of cash bonus and share and Mr S G Young, which commenced on 1 January 2004.
Other than Mr Hill schemes in order to align their interests with those of the shareholders and and Mr Young there have been no new appointments to the Board during the to incentivise them.
Executive share options when granted are only at year.
The Nominations Committee met to discuss the appointment of Sir market value.
Colin Terry as Chairman and the structure of the Board, the balance of skills The level of fees for non executive directors is set to reflect the time and the plans to move to a position where half the Board consists of commitment and responsibilities of the role after consulting independent surveys independent non executive directors.
Non executive directors are not entitled to receive share options.
None of the executive directors serves as a non executive director for 5.
Information and Professional Development another company.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of The Remuneration Committee has appointed Towers Perrin to advise on a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
remuneration packages for executive directors.
Towers Perrin conducted a On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction to the benchmarking exercise of the value of the total remuneration received by business.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new non executive directors.
The Committee considered this advice when reviewing executive directors should they wish to do so.
salaries to take effect from 1 January 2005.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to offer executive directors knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior contracts requiring one years notice from the Company.
Should the management, receiving reports on the business and visits to the Groups Company terminate the contracts in breach of the contract terms then operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing and damages would be due which are equivalent to remuneration for the updating their knowledge and capabilities.
unexpired period of notice less 5%.
The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge 2.
Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of three members, all their duties.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board has approved written Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board terms of reference for the Committee which are available on the Companys procedures are complied with and that there is a good information flow website.
During 2004 Towers Perrin were appointed as advisors to the within the Board.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary Committee: they have no other known connection with the Company.
are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration The non executive directors believe that it is in the best interests of the packages, including pension arrangements, for all executive directors and Company for Mr P E Green to continue to combine the role of Company senior management and for agreeing the fees for the Chairman.
The Finance Secretary with his responsibilities as an executive director for legal, Committee of the Board is responsible for setting the fees of the non compliance and administrative matters given his 22 years of experience as executive directors within the limits set in the Articles of Association.
a chartered secretary at a senior corporate level and their ability to obtain No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
independent professional advice if that were deemed necessary.
This will be kept under regular review.
It is proposed to submit new share option and long term incentive schemes for shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Performance Evaluation C. Accountability and Audit During the last 12 months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees.
Following completion of an independently supplied questionnaire by all directors, the Chairman led two 1.
Financial Reporting separate discussions to consider the Boards behaviours and processes.
This report and accounts contains an explanation of the directors Certain areas were identified for improvement or action.
The Audit and responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by Remuneration Committees also considered their own performance.
The the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman that the business is a going concern.
and Chief Executive in discussion with other non executive directors.
The non executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Internal Control The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard 7.
Re-Election shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against material general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms full implementation of the intervals of no more than three years.
Non executive directors are appointed guidance issued by Turnbull.
for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Act relating to the removal of a director.
The process adopted by the Board for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company is as follows: Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted for election 1.
The Board receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state of the or re-election will be provided in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings it receives Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 29 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance reports from the external auditors and the internal audit department.
The Committee reviews at each meeting the activities of the Internal Audit Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using a risk model.
function and regularly reviews its effectiveness.
This risk model is based on three areas of risk: business risk, inherent risk and control risk.
The model produces a risk score for each operating unit, D. Relations with Shareholders based on the above risk areas and incorporating ten separate risk indicators.
This exercise, completed annually in November by means of an extensive 1.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders internal audit questionnaire, produces a risk league table, which is used to prioritise internal audit visits.
Other factors such as the length of time The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private since last visit, management reviews and year to date operating results investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional are also taken into consideration to ensure a continuous assessment of investors and analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief internal risk.
On average, each operating unit currently receives an internal Executive and Group Finance Director.
This encompasses such issues as audit visit every two to three years.
Following each internal audit visit, a strategy, performance and policy.
detailed report is written which includes all findings and recommendations.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive.
These reports are reviewed by senior management, both at head office The Chairman and other non executive directors are available to attend and at the operating unit concerned and recommendations are followed meetings with shareholders if they are requested to do so.
In addition to the up to ensure that they have been implemented.
Chief Executives regular reports, directors may develop an understanding 3.
Annually a review of the risk environment is presented to the Board for of the views of major shareholders from presentations by the Companys their consideration along with the effectiveness of the system of internal brokers to the whole Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
This review covers material controls, including financial, Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
operational, compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys Operations Executive regularly reviews various types of risk identified in the businesses and a summary of the key risks is 2.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting presented to the Board twice a year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for 5.
On an annual basis, each business managing director provides written communication with its shareholders.
All proxy votes are counted by the confirmation that the business for which he is responsible has been in Companys Registrars and the level of voting on each resolution is made compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
available at the end of the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at 6.
Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in place the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate issues and there is and the risks which remain uninsured.
a resolution relating to the report and accounts.
The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
Groups cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional operating It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of the Annual General Meeting costs represented 110% of operating profit before exceptional operating and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days costs and goodwill amortisation in 2004. before the meeting.
Audit Committee and Auditors Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code The Board has appointed an Audit Committee consisting of three The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the independent non executive directors under the Chairmanship of Sir Alan Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 Cox.
The Board is satisfied that amongst the Committees members there Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services is recent and relevant financial experience.
Authority with the following exceptions: The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee a A.
3.2 at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, did not which are available on the Companys website.
During 2004 the Committee comprise independent non executive directors.
This has been rectified met on three occasions.
On two of these occasions the external auditors following the resignations of Dr R W Greaves and Mr J J Stobie on attended to discuss the scope and the results of the annual audit in detail 1 March 2005. which included the main risks facing the Group along with any other items b B.
1.1 and Schedule A annual bonuses for executive directors were which the auditors or the non executive directors wished to discuss.
The pensionable in order to be consistent with other senior employees.
Audit Committee also reviewed the internal control environment of the It should be noted that, unlike for uncapped senior employees, Group and received reports from Internal Audit as described above.
contributions were not made in respect of the value of other taxable benefits.
The Remuneration Committee has decided that bonuses for The Company places great importance on the independence of its auditors and, executive directors will no longer be pensionable and therefore any together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
bonus paid in respect of 2004 performance will not be pensionable.
The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the c B.
2.1 the Remuneration Committee now consists of three independent appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
non executive directors but until 30 June 2004 Mr M A Stacey was a member of the Committee.
Mr Stacey was not considered to be The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees to be paid to external independent as he was a former Chief Executive of the Company.
auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
The Companys general d C. 3.1 for the short period from1 July 2004 to 26 August 2004 Sir Colin policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: Terry remained a member of the Audit Committee even though he was audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to undertake Chairman of the Board in order that there might be three members.
those services which they are required to, and most suited to, perform eg bank covenant letters.
The Audit Committee is required to approve any fees to the external auditors in excess of 100,000.
Going Concern taxation: the Companys principal tax advisers are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation for general consulting work where this could impair their independence that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational or objectivity.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue During the year arrangements were put in place to enable employees to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial statement also constitutes part of the Financial Review on pages 16 and 17. reporting or otherwise.
These arrangements allow for proportionate and independent investigation and for appropriate follow-up action.
30 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004
