Corporate governance report The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to their independent judgement to bear on issues brought before the Board and Board Committee the Companys shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group.
They bring considerable knowledge and experience from other areas of business and the light of the establishment of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the revised public life, together with an international perspective, and their views carry significant weight in Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees, the Board has reviewed its corporate governance the Boards decisions.
They also meet as a group without executive Directors being present.
There arrangements and does not anticipate having to modify significantly its current corporate governance was one such meeting in 2003 04 when the matters discussed included the composition of the structure, policies and procedures, to ensure substantial compliance with the revised Code.
Board, the role and performance of the executive Chairman, the Groups strategy on product management and development, and the appropriateness of the data presented to the Board.
As the revised Code takes effect in respect of accounting periods starting on or after 1 November 2003, this report has been prepared on the basis of the previous Combined Code on Corporate The Board is aware of the guidance contained in the Code on situations where the offices of Governance the Code.
However, the report does contain some additional disclosures in Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are combined.
In the case of Misys, the Board believes recognition of the introduction of the revised Code.
that there is a sufficient distribution of responsibilities at the top of the Company to ensure that effective power is not unduly concentrated in the hands of one individual.
The current balance of The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant with all the provisions of the existing executive Directors five and independent non-executive Directors six is such that no individual Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2004, except as noted elsewhere in this Annual Report.
or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking.
THE BOARD During the year the Managing Director had responsibility for the Groups business overall, with The Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, four other executive Directors and responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the Banking and Securities, and Healthcare Divisions six non-executive Directors including the senior non-executive Director, Sir Dominic Cadbury.
being under the control of their respective Chief Executive Officers on the Misys Board.
Their biographies appear on pages 26 and 27.
The Board collectively has a wide range of relevant Following the retirement of the Managing Director, the divisional Chief Executive Officers report business, financial and global experience, which is vital to the successful direction of a global direct to the executive Chairman.
Responsibility for the strategic development of the Group is company.
As part of the Companys orderly programme of succession planning, two executive shared amongst the Chairman, the Corporate Development Director, and the divisional Chief Directors have retired since the last Annual Report.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the Companys business and In addition, as described above, the Board has a majority of independent non-executive Directors determines Group strategy, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines of high quality.
The Board intends to maintain that majority of independent non-executive Directors major investments.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision including approval for the foreseeable future.
Sir Dominic Cadbury has been nominated by the Board as the senior of the accounts and dividends, significant strategic decisions, Group budget, transactions and independent Director, and provides an alternative to the Chairman as a contact at Board level settlement of litigation over a certain amount, fundamental changes to the internal control for shareholders.
system, the adoption of new employee incentivisation plans, and the delegation of authority A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate circumstances, to take to committees and individual Directors.
The full schedule is available on the Companys website.
independent professional advice in respect of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board members receive sufficient and the Company.
In addition, all Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who also acts as timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties General Counsel, for advice.
and make further enquiries where necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the quality and quantity The Chairman is also charged with ensuring that all new Board members are equipped to fulfil of this information and recommends adjustments as necessary or advisable to enable the Board their duties and responsibilities.
As part of the early familiarisation programme, new nonto focus more readily on the important issues.
From time to time, the Board also receives detailed executive Directors are encouraged to meet the executive Directors individually and engage in presentations from non-Board members on new opportunities for the Group or other matters of an induction programme of visits to different businesses within the Group where they have the significance.
The Board meets at least eight times a year nine times during 2003 04 aiming to hold opportunity to meet the senior management.
The Company has embarked on a programme of two meetings each year in the United States.
The Board also reviews whether the number of personal development tailored to the needs of the executive Directors and other members of the regularly scheduled meetings is appropriate for the anticipated needs of the business.
Group Operating Board, using an outside facilitator, in order to enhance their performance as a The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors and considers that each team and as individuals.
of them is able to devote the necessary amount of time to the business of the Company.
During the year the Directors conducted an evaluation of the performance of the Board.
Each No executive Director has more than one non-executive directorship with a FTSE 100 company.
Director completed, on a non-attributable basis, a detailed questionnaire, the results of which The Chairman is a non-executive Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc and Chairman of were collated by a consultant and reported back to the Board by the Chairman.
A similar exercise its Audit Committee.
The Board is of the opinion that this appointment does not significantly was conducted in relation to the performance of the Audit Committee.
In each case, suggestions for impinge on his duties as Chairman of Misys.
improving the performance of the Board and Committee were discussed and, where appropriate, The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors are independent as defined in the implemented.
In the current year, the Board intends to conduct a further review of its revised Code.
The non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability by bringing performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
30 Non-executive Directors are appointed for a three year term after which their appointment may be reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: extended by mutual agreement.
It is envisaged that a non-executive Director would not ordinarily reviewing the risks associated with the Groups businesses: serve on the Board beyond nine years.
reviewing periodic reports on the internal audit function: In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, any Director who at the date of the reviewing and approving PwCs terms of engagement, fees and non-audit fees: and notice convening the Annual General Meeting AGM has held office for more than 30 months reviewing PwCs strategy for the audit of the 2004 financial statements.
since being appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in General Meeting, is obliged to retire from office but is eligible for re-appointment.
Tony Alexander will be standing for re-election The Nomination Committee, chaired by George Farr, consists of all the non-executive Directors at the forthcoming AGM but only for a one year term in compliance with the revised Code, as he and meets as necessary, liaising closely with the Chairman.
It met three times during 2003 04 will have served on the Board for nine years as at 1 May 2005. twice during 2002 03.
It assesses the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
The Committee BOARD COMMITTEES plays an important role in succession planning for the Board and key senior executives and Responsibilities at Board level are divided among six standing Board Committees, which operate performs regular assessments of the requirements of the Board as a whole.
within formally defined written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee oversees the search and selection process for new These are complemented by an active internal audit function.
Further details on internal control are Directors and aims to do so in compliance with the recommendations under the revised Code.
provided in the section below.
As such the Committee seeks to make appointments on merit and against objective criteria.
The Group Operating Board comprises the executive Directors, the Chief Technology Officer, The Committee also seeks to satisfy itself that there are in place plans for orderly succession of the Group Human Resources Director, and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
It is appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
Over the past two years the chaired by Kevin Lomax.
It meets approximately four times a year four times during 2003 04 Committee, and the Board as a whole, has successfully and smoothly managed the retirements and has responsibility for the development and implementation of Group strategy as well as the of three executive Directors, recruited two new independent non-executive Directors and co-ordination of Group-wide initiatives.
approved the promotion to the Board of three senior employees.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Tony Alexander, consists of all the non-executive Directors The most recent appointment to the Board was of Ian Dyson, effective 1 October 2003.
To and met three times during 2003 04 twice during 2002 03, with the Finance Director, Group identify suitable candidates for this appointment, the Committee engaged the services of a Financial Controller, Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors,  search firm and also canvassed other advisers for names.
LLP PwC invited to attend as appropriate.
On two occasions during the year the Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury, consists of all the nonmet the external auditors without any executive Directors present.
The Internal Audit Manager executive Directors and meets when necessary.
It met eight times during 2003 04 five times has direct access to the Committee Chairman.
Executive Directors are invited to attend the Committees meetings as the During the year the Committee was further strengthened by the appointment of Ian Dyson members consider appropriate.
Details of the Committees main functions, and its remuneration who brings recent and relevant financial experience from his role as Finance Director at The policies for the Companys Directors and senior executives, are provided in the Remuneration Rank Group Plc.
In January 2004 the terms of reference of the Committee were amended in the light of the revised The Treasury Committee was established by the Board to review the function and operation of Code.
The Committees duties include the review and approval, where required, of the draft the Groups centralised treasury, whose primary role is to manage the foreign exchange interest results prior to publication, the effectiveness and reliability of the Groups system of internal rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operation of the business.
In view of the specialised control, the internal audit function, any changes to financial reporting requirements and matters nature of these matters, it was felt that the Board would be better served by having a Committee arising from the annual Group audit.
specially appointed to deal with them rather than their being dealt with by the General Purposes The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups auditors is of paramount Committee as previously.
The Committee is governed by written terms of reference and meets as importance to shareholders and has established a framework for monitoring and approving the necessary 25 times during 2003 04, reporting its decisions to the next meeting of the Board.
Its level of non-audit fees eg accounting, tax or other financial consultancy related work paid to membership comprises the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Corporate Development Director, the Group auditors in order to identify and minimise any conflicts of interest.
The non-audit fees the Group Treasurer and Ian Dyson as the non-executive Director member.
The minimum attendance paid to PwC amounted to 1.3m, or 59% of total fees paid.
The Audit Committee believes that required is two Directors, one of whom must be the Chairman or the Finance Director.
the quality and independence of the audit process was not adversely affected by PwCs non-audit The General Purposes Committee transacts routine business of the Board.
The Committee work for the Group.
The Committee also considers internal audit and management control issues.
operates within clearly defined written terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets when During the year the Committees work has included: necessary 93 times during 2003 04 43 times during 2002 03 and reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis.
All the Directors, together with the Company Secretary, are members reviewing the Groups draft 2003 financial statements and 2003 interim results and related of the Committee, with a minimum of two Directors required to attend.
announcements, prior to Board approval, together with PwCs reports thereon: 31 Corporate governance report continued The attendance record of each Director during the year is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Board Committee Committee Committee Operating Board Number of meetings held during the year 9338 4 A G L Alexander 9338 Sir Dominic Cadbury 8237 I Dyson appointed 1 October 2003 5224 G L Farr 9235 R A Ingram 5224 Dr J Zech 8237 J K Lomax 9 4 H Evans 9 4 R K Graham retired 31 December 2003 5 2 I Martin 7 4 J P McMahon 8 4 T K Skelton 8 4 J G Sussens 8 4 The General Purposes Committee and Treasury Committee hold a large number of ad hoc AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE meetings attended by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above table.
The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors,  LLP, and concluded that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS level of independence.
The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a purposeful relationship with its investors and in June 2003 a Head of Investor Relations was appointed to further develop this INTERNAL CONTROL area.
The Chairman, the Finance Director, and the Corporate Development Director hold briefing The Groups system of internal control comprises a number of distinct individual processes meetings with financial analysts and institutional shareholders, including presentations following and procedures.
When taken together, they provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance the interim and final results announcements, and their views are communicated to the Board.
against material mis-statement or loss.
The following describes the main features of the internal control system.
In addition, business and market briefings are held throughout the year to ensure that the analysts and investing community receive a broader view of the Groups operations and the RISK MANAGEMENT issues faced by the business.
A comprehensive risk management process has been developed that identifies and evaluates the The senior independent Director has met with shareholders upon request on two occasions in key business, operational, financial and compliance risks that are considered to be important both the past year.
In addition, the Company has solicited investor input into the proposed changes from an overall Group and individual business perspective.
The process involves each division to executive compensation.
The Board, including the non-executive Directors, have access to reviewing, on an ongoing basis, the most important risks to which the business is exposed and the services of Makinson Cowell, who provide independent advice concerning the relationship ranking these according to whether business unit management consider them potentially to have between the Company and its institutional investors.
a high, medium or low impact on their operations.
In addition the businesses are required to The principal communication with private investors is through the Companys website review the control processes in place that manage and or mitigate the potential exposure to the business of these risks occurring.
com, the Annual Report and financial statements, the Interim Report and the AGM.
All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders with the opportunity to The business risks are evaluated and approved at an operating Board level and are then reviewed question the Chairman and the Board.
The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from by the Misys Group Operating Board who determine which risks, in their opinion, are the most individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
significant to the Group overall.
These are reported to the main Board and senior executives are The financial and other information, including presentations to analysts and investors in audio and given responsibility to deal with any items requiring action and to report regularly on progress.
text formats, is made available on the Companys website.
Further details are contained in the Investor Information section on page 81.
32 FINANCIAL MONITORING AND REPORTING Detailed financial budgets are prepared annually by the business units and culminate in a projection of anticipated profits, cash flow and potential investments for the Group.
The Group budget is formally approved by the Board.
Actual performance, as reported internally in monthly financial statements and key performance indicators, is then compared with the control budget on a monthly basis and, together with regular updated forecasts, are reviewed by divisional management and the Board.
There is a high emphasis placed on cash generation with cash flows and balances monitored at business, divisional and Group level by a system of weekly and monthly cash reports.
Treasury and taxation policies are reviewed at least annually and are themselves subject to regular reporting to the Board.
AUTHORITY LEVELS Defined levels of authority at Group, divisional and business unit level are established for the approval of major development projects, contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed regularly and approved by the Group or divisional Board as appropriate.
INVESTMENT APPRAISAL Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are reviewed rigorously against the Groups standards for investment return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions before contractual commitment.
SYSTEM OF OPERATING UNIT CONTROL PROCEDURES Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by regular Board and management meetings, attended by Misys executive and divisional Directors.
Financial controls and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is circulated to all business units, regularly updated, and published on the Groups intranet.
Written confirmation of compliance with internal financial control policies is obtained from the finance directors and general managers of the operating units.
In addition, compliance with the Groups policies and procedures is monitored by means of regular visits to operating units by the Groups financial management.
INTERNAL AUDIT The internal audit function, through a structured review process, assesses at operating unit level, the key financial controls and compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The central Group functions, including Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of internal audits work plan.
The work plan and key findings of the internal audit process are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The process and systems described above have been in place during the financial year ended 31 May 2004 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirm that they have reviewed its effectiveness.
On behalf of the Board Dan Fitz General Counsel and Company Secretary 22 July 2004 33
