Audit Committee report The Companys Audit Committee meets, as at 25 September oversee the process for dealing with complaints received 2004, the requirements of the revised UK Combined Code by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act New York Stock Exchange controls or auditing matters and the condential, anonymous requirements, as applicable to non-US companies.
A copy submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable of the Committees terms of reference is publicly available accounting or auditing matters: and within the Investor section of the Companys website.
adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for the Role of the Audit Committee Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy Finance The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Director and all other members of the Executive Committee, which is consistent with the Companys overall statement review the Companys public statements on internal control of business ethics.
and corporate governance compliance prior to their consideration by the Board: Audit Committee composition The Committee is chaired by George Fairweather who, review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, as a Chartered Accountant and the finance director of misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider the a FTSE 100 company, has current and relevant financial Companys response to any such occurrence: experience and is considered to be the Committees financial expert.
The Committees other members are Drummond Hall, review managements evaluation of any change in internal Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller.
The Committee wishes controls over financial reporting: to retain the knowledge, experience and judgement of the Chairman of the Board but, reecting recommendations review with management and the external Auditors any within the Smith guidance, Roger Carr resigned from the financial statements required under UK or US legislation Audit Committee during the year and attends at the invitation before submission to the Board: of the Committees Chairman.
All of the Committees members are Independent Non-Executive Directors establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness as dened in both UK guidance and US legislation.
of the Group Assurance function: Audit Committee meetings assume direct responsibility for the appointment, The Committee meets at least four times a year.
compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing During 2003 04 five full meetings of the Committee of the external Auditors, including review of the external were held, which all the then current Committee audit, its cost and effectiveness: members attended.
pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external Auditors and the fees to be paid for that work along with the monitoring of the external Auditors independence: Mitchells & Butlers 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Audit Committee process The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined Overseeing the Groups Sarbanes-Oxley compliance work in its terms of reference, through a series of Audit Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are The disclosure controls and procedures operated by presented for review.
The Committee commissions reports, the Group either from external advisers, the Director of Group Assurance, or Company management, after consideration of the Companys Substantial litigation involving the Group major risks or in response to developing issues.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets privately with the external The Committees own terms of reference and its effectiveness.
Auditors and the Director of Group Assurance at least four times a year and liaises with Company management in considering The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by areas for review by the Committee.
the Audit Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
Adequate time is allowed between the Committees During the year, the Committees meetings considered the review and the Boards approval for any actions or further following matters: work requested by the Committee to be completed.
Interim and full year financial results Evaluations carried out by the Committee in the year have been performed with the assistance of the Director of Group The scope and cost of the external audit Assurance.
The Committee monitors these reviews and may consider the use of external advisers in the future.
Any non-audit work carried out by the Groups external Auditors and trends in the non-audit fees in accordance During the year, the external Auditors lead audit partner stood with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguarding down for health reasons.
The appointment of his replacement of audit independence was overseen by the Audit Committee.
The scope of the annual internal audit plan, the Internal External Auditors independence Audit departments terms of reference and its resourcing The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the utilisation of the external Auditors for non-audit work that is in The external Auditors interim and full year reports compliance with the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Auditors may carry out certain specified non-audit Periodic internal control and assurance reports from the work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the Committee, Internal Audit function up to a monetary limit of half the audit fee per transaction and subject to an annual total cap of no more than the audit The effectiveness of the external Auditors and consideration fee.
Any other work for which management wishes to utilise of their reappointment the external Auditors must be approved by the Committee.
Periodic reports on any allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing procedures and the effectiveness George Fairweather, Chairman of the Audit Committee of these procedures 30 November 2004 The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Management representations and waivers granted to the external Auditors Any major changes in the Groups internal controls The co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions The Groups framework for the identication and control of major risks The adoption of a code of ethics for the Executive Committee Corporate governance developments in the UK and the US Monitoring of the Groups International Financial Reporting Standard conversion exercise Mitchells & Butlers 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
