Corporate governance Combined Code compliance provides assurance through reports from the Director The Board is committed to compliance with the principles of Group Assurance that the significant risks faced by of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code the Group are being identied, evaluated and appropriately on Corporate Governance the Code and considers that managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost the Company has complied throughout the year ended and opportunity.
25 September 2004 with all the provisions of the Code.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Following the findings of the Higgs Committee on the role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors and the reports from the Director of Group Assurance on Smith Committee on audit committees, a revised Combined the work carried out under the annual internal audit Code was issued in July 2003 the Revised Code.
Its plan: and provisions became effective for companies financial periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003 and technically reports from the external Auditors.
do not impact this Company until its year which commenced on 26 September 2004.
The Company has, however, already Through the monitoring processes set out above, taken steps to meet the requirements of the Revised Code the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness and considers that as at 25 September 2004, it was fully of the system of internal control during the year ended compliant and remains so.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure The Board is responsible for the Groups system of to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised internal control and risk management and for reviewing that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute its effectiveness.
In order to discharge that responsibility, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that the Board confirms that it has established the procedures context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
and the Board is not aware of any change to this status These procedures have been in place since the Group was up to the approval of this Annual Report.
listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
In line with recent developments in good corporate Business performance is managed closely and in particular, governance and to comply with the Groups US obligations the Board and the Executive Committee have established under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group has developed processes, as part of the normal good management of the a process to review the effectiveness of internal financial business, to monitor: control based on the framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive the COSO framework.
This process will be utilised to series of strategic reviews: evaluate internal financial controls during 2004 05 and a report on the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial financial performance, within a comprehensive financial controls under the COSO framework will be made as at the planning and accounting framework: end of that financial year.
capital investment and asset management performance, With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment to insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group reviews: and regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability risk management, through an ongoing process, of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude which accords with the Turnbull guidance and of the risks involved.
Mitchells & Butlers 9 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate governance continued Board and committee structure Directors biographical details are set out on pages 26 and 27 of To support the principles of good corporate governance, the the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 and Board and committee structure operates as set out below: these include their main commitments outside the Company.
The Board Mike Bramley and Roger Carr will retire by rotation and The Board consists of the part-time Non-Executive Chairman, offer themselves for reappointment at the Annual General four Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Drummond Hall, having been The appointment of a fourth independent Non-Executive appointed a Director during the year, will also retire and offer Director during the year means that the balance between himself for reappointment.
Details of the Executive Directors Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors complies service contracts are set out on page 17.
The Chairman with the requirement of the Revised Code.
and the four independent Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
There are nine regular Board meetings planned for 2005, with further ad hoc meetings as required to consider matters Chairman which are time critical.
There were eight meetings during Roger Carr is Chairman of the Board and has responsibility 2004 and there was full attendance, except for one meeting for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that when Mike Bramley and Sir Tim Lankester were unable all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their to attend.
Despite being unable to attend this meeting, these roles.
He also ensures that appropriate communication Directors were nevertheless provided with all the papers and is maintained with shareholders.
information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
During the year, he has been appointed as Chairman of Centrica plc, having previously been a non-executive The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic director of that company.
He has resigned from the direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore Industrial Development Advisory Board of the Department approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
of Trade & Industry and the CBI Council.
The Board It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance is satisfied that he is able to fulfil his commitment to of past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Company.
the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance Chief Executive and compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and has responsibility financial and human resources are in place for the Company for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a schedule for managing the Group.
He has authority to approve of matters which are reserved for its attention which are capital expenditure projects up to a level authorised published on the Companys website.
The Board has adopted objective criteria for the appointment Senior Independent Director of Directors and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Sara Weller is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Executive have been dened in writing.
Her responsibilities include being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues to raise.
She meets The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring annually with the Independent Non-Executive Directors, good information ows to the Board and its committees and without the Chairman present, to review the performance between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors, of the Chairman, having taken account of the views of the as well as facilitating the induction of Directors and assisting Executive Directors.
with their professional development as required.
The Company Secretary is responsible, through the Chairman, Committees for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
The Committees of the Board each have written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available The following were Directors of the Company during the year: in the Investor section of the Companys website.
Appointed Executive Committee Roger Carr Chairman 10.2.
03 The Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10.2.
03 consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars 15.4.
03 executives as shown on page 27 of the Annual Review and George Fairweather Independent Non-Executive Summary Financial Statement 2004.
03 Tony Hughes Managing Director, Restaurants 15.4.
03 The Committee meets every four weeks and has everyday Karim Naffah Finance Director 15.4.
03 responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops Sara Weller Senior Independent the Groups strategy and revenue and capital budgets for Non-Executive Director 15.4.
It reviews and recommends to the Board Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive any significant investment proposals.
03 Drummond Hall Independent Non-Executive The Committee monitors the financial, operational and Director 30.7.
04 customer service performance of the Group and allocates Mitchells & Butlers 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers The Chairman evaluates the individual performances employment issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent pool of talent and develops senior management manpower Director led a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors planning and succession plans.
without the Chairman present to review the performance of the Chairman.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which is chaired by George Fairweather, Non-Executive Directors consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company has experienced independent Non-Executive The Chairman of the Board attends at the invitation of the Directors who represent a strong source of advice Committees Chairman.
In addition to the Chairman, who was independent on his appointment, there are four Further details about the Committee are included in the Non-Executive Directors, who the Board considers to be Audit Committee Report on page 12. wholly independent as they have never been employed by or had a material business relationship with the Group: Remuneration Committee have no family ties with the Groups advisers, Directors or The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by senior employees: do not hold cross directorships or have Sara Weller, comprises the four independent Non-Executive significant links with other Directors through involvement Directors.
The Chairman of the Board attends by invitation in other companies or bodies and do not represent a of the Committees Chairman.
Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 18, the Independent Non-Executive Further details about the Committee are included in the Directors received no remuneration from the Company.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into account their other Nomination Committee responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit sufficient The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, who time to their prospective directorship.
chairs the Committee, the four independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
Its terms of reference All Directors are briefed by use of comprehensive papers provide that the Committee is responsible for nominating, in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups operations to the Board and also for succession planning.
It met three is enhanced by business presentations and operational times during the year to consider these matters, with all the visits outside Board meetings to the Companys businesses.
then current members attending, except on one occasion Separate strategy meetings and ad hoc meetings with senior when Sir Tim Lankester was unable to be present.
The Committee appointed external consultants Ian Jones Re-election of Directors & Partners to nd candidates for the one directorship lled The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves during the year.
A candidate prole and objective selection for re-election at least every three years.
The proposals for criteria for that search were agreed.
reappointments at the 2005 AGM are set out on page 3 of the AGM Notice.
General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Independent advice Executive Directors or any one Executive Director together Members of the Board may take independent professional with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access senior executives.
It is always chaired by a Director.
It attends to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously Shareholder relations by the Board or an appropriate committee.
The Company has a programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity Board evaluation to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, The Board engaged external consultants, Spencer Stuart, the progress of the business.
The Chairman and the Chief to assist with a Board effectiveness review during the year.
Executive report to the Board the views of major shareholders The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provided about the Company, and the Non-Executive Directors are a brief for the assessment of the Board and its Committees, available to major shareholders on request.
Institutional which was effected through individual meetings with the investors and analysts are also invited to briengs by the Company Secretary and each Director.
Topics covered included Company after the announcement of its interim and final the overall impression of the Board and its effectiveness, results.
The content of these briefings is posted on the organisation of the Board, Committee organisation, roles of Companys website, www.
com, together with general the Board members, Board composition, Board involvement information about the Company so as to be available to and communication with shareholders.
Feedback was provided all shareholders.
to the Board through a written report and presentation, which was discussed by the Board.
The Annual General Meeting provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
This report concluded that the Board functioned well and The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination that the mix of skills and experience of Board members Committees attend to answer questions.
ensured that sound and balanced judgement was exercised in strategic assessment and decision taking.
The Board will continue to critically review process and effectiveness in the year ahead.
Mitchells & Butlers 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
