CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board adopts an effective system of Corporate Governance to fulfil the Groups corporate responsibilities and the achievement of its financial objectives.
"This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration report on pages 22 to 26, explains the manner in which the Board of MITIE Group PLC has applied the principles of good governance and the code provisions prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel and published in June 1998 the ""Hampel Code""."
It is the policy of the Board of MITIE Group PLC to manage its affairs in accordance with these principles and provisions and achieve the highest standards of Corporate Governance.
Board and Committee Structure Board of Directors The Board of MITIE Group PLC currently comprises six Executive and four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their biographical details, shown on page 19, demonstrate the range of experience, skill, and independent judgement they each bring to the Board.
As mentioned elsewhere in this report, David Telling resigned as Chairman on 25 September 2003 with David Ord, an Independent Non-Executive Director, taking over the Chairmanship.
The Board considers that the appointment of the Chairman from the existing Board members provides the stability and consistency required to run the Board effectively.
This appointment was recommended by the Nomination Committee and approved by the full Board.
During the year the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Donald Macpherson, retired.
Sir John Jennings was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in his place.
A new Independent Non-Executive Director, Cullum McAlpine, was appointed on 1 April 2003 to add to the Groups complement of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
This appointment was made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee resulting from its ongoing review of the balance of the Board.
Due regard was given to Mr McAlpines skills and experience, as well as his other commitments, when considering his appropriateness for the position.
Each new Director receives papers that include a copy of MITIE Group PLCs Memorandum and Articles of Association, various Committee terms of reference, and copies of recent Board minutes and supporting papers.
New Directors are formally introduced to the Board as a whole and invited to visit any number of sites and operations to help familiarise themselves with the Groups business.
Any Director, on appointment and throughout their service, is entitled to receive any training they consider necessary to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities effectively.
This is at the Groups expense.
All Directors are appointed by the Board as a whole and after recommendations from the Nomination Committee have been received.
All new Directors are subject to re-election by the Shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
One third of the Board is subject to re-election each year, ensuring that, based on the current Board composition, all Directors will have been subject to re-election over a three year period.
This is in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
None of the Executive Directors has service contracts with notice periods greater than twelve months.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors fixed-term agreements are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and the Head Office.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The criteria used by management for determining independence are in accordance with the criteria detailed in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
The Board does not consider Non-Executive Director shareholdings to impinge upon their independence.
Indeed, such shareholdings not only ensure that the Non-Executive Directors interests are aligned with those of Shareholders, but are also in keeping with the whole ethos of the MITIE Group.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is responsible for the running of the Board, and Chief Executive, who is responsible for the running of the Group in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
This ensures that there is a balance of power and authority such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Board met seven times during the year for regular Board meetings.
In addition to these regular Board meetings, there were a number of additional meetings to deal with specific matters.
The Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors on several occasions during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, which includes strategy and performance, acquisitions, capital expenditure and the safeguarding of the assets of the Group.
At least a week before each Board meeting, each Director is supplied with an agenda and sufficient supporting papers that provide the appropriate information required for the Directors to properly discharge their duties.
Included within these papers are detailed results for each of the Groups operating disciplines, as well as on an overall basis.
Other papers include a treasury report detailing the cash position across the Group and proposals regarding future potential acquisitions, disposals, start-ups or restructurings.
The monthly financial results and analyses are circulated in months where no Board meeting is held.
The Board constantly reviews the quality, nature and presentation of information provided and requests changes where the Directors feel such changes will offer information that is more appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed, including advising on all governance matters.
If necessary the Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense, although no advice has been sought to date.
To ensure that undue reliance is not placed on a particular Director or Committee member, no individual Director is Chairman of more than one Committee.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee met on a regular basis during the year.
In addition to these formal meetings the Committee members were in regular communication and met less formally on a number of other occasions.
The Committee is responsible for the overall day-to-day management of the business.
Its current members are the Executive Directors of MITIE Group PLC and it is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises all four Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
The Committee met three times during the year to examine and consider matters relating to the affairs of the Group.
These matters included the review and examination of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, the internal financial control procedures in place for controlling the Groups business, and compliance with accounting standards and generally accepted accounting principles.
In particular, the Committee focuses on any changes in accounting policy and practices, major judgemental areas, significant adjustments or problems resulting from the statutory audits, and the going concern assumption.
The Committee is also responsible for considering among other things the fees, nature and scope of work, effectiveness and independence of the Groups external Auditors as well as their appointment, re-appointment and removal as necessary.
The external Auditors and the Company have regular dialogue concerning matters of independence and a report is made formally to the Audit Committee on this matter at least once a year.
When appropriate the external Auditors provide non-audit services to the Group and independence matters are given careful consideration prior to their appointment.
The Group is looking to broaden the range of service providers in this area, but will always appoint those who offer the best service to the Group and who are best placed to advise the Group.
In addition, the independence of the external Auditors is further safeguarded by the internal controls within Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding the segregation and nature of the services being provided.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Detailed presentations to the Committee are made, on request, by the Groups internal risk management department.
However, reports are always submitted to the Committee to update its members on the departments activities.
This helps the Committee assess the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and the internal risk management department itself.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2005.
The Groups external Auditors normally attend the Audit Committee meetings and, at the request of the Committee, the Group Finance Director and other senior executives from the Group will also attend.
The Committee has access to the external Auditors advice, and that of other independent professional advisors, without the presence of the Executive Directors if it considers this necessary.
28 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises all four Non-Executive Directors.
They usually meet at least twice a year and met five times during the year under review.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework of executive remuneration and determines on its behalf specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
Advice is sought from external remuneration consultants as and when considered necessary.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the balance and composition of the Board to ensure that it contains the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to properly discharge its duties.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments, after considering the job specification and the candidates specific skills, experience and other commitments, succession planning and any adjustments to the Boards balance and composition considered necessary.
The Committee usually meets at least once a year with additional meetings taking place as and when requested by any Committee member.
The Committee met once during the year under review.
Meeting Attendance All Directors are encouraged to attend all meetings of all the Committees of which they are members and it is recognised by the Board that they make every effort to do so, rarely missing a meeting.
Current Directors combined actual attendance at regular Board and Committee meetings is shown in the following table: ACTUAL MEETING POSSIBLE DIRECTOR ATTENDANCE MAXIMUM David C Ord 14 16 Ian R Stewart 10 10 Colin S Acheson 10 10 N Roger Goodman 9 10 Colin S Hale 10 10 Ruby McGregor-Smith 9 10 Bill Robson 10 10 Sir John Jennings 17 17 Manish J Chande 16 17 Cullum McAlpine 10 12 Shareholder Communications The Group is committed to maintaining an ongoing relationship with institutional and private Shareholders and welcomes such dialogue.
Formal presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts twice a year after the release of the interim and final results.
Individual requests for meetings are usually satisfied by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Other Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, are available to Shareholders on request.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available if Shareholders have concerns that they believe are not being addressed by the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
Principal channels of communication with investors continue to be through news announcements, the publication of the Interim Report and Annual Report and Accounts, and the Groups website www.
Both institutional and private investors are welcomed at the Annual General Meeting.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Directors Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 26 includes details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the Directors.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Directors are also responsible for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of these systems.
These systems have been designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Any such systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
A review of the operation and effectiveness of this framework has also been undertaken and was performed in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
Key features of the current system of internal control are discussed below.
In addition, Directors continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement that come to managements and the Boards attention.
The review process adopted by the Board includes the following: Group Organisation and Culture By its statements and actions, the Board emphasises a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior management and financial performance.
The Executive Committee concentrates on the formulation of strategic proposals to the Board and operational decision making.
The individual operating companies Managing Directors manage their businesses with the support of senior management.
Information Systems There is a comprehensive system of reporting to the Board, based on an annual budget prepared in line with the business plan, half-yearly forecasts and regular reporting of operating results.
Key operational performance indicators are continuously monitored by the Executive Directors and senior management.
Individual Company Controls Each operating Company regularly reviews its risk profile using a common strategic risk framework.
Early warning mechanisms, together with the system for reducing the risks, are documented.
The operating companies refine each framework in the light of the changing aspects of their businesses.
Furthermore, individual companies complete an annual Statement of Internal Controls, which requires the Board of each Company to consider formally its own systems of internal control with specific reference to areas of judgement, compliance with regulatory and Group requirements, and risks to its operations.
Risk Management The internal risk management department within the Group undertakes an annual review programme to address internal control and risk management processes with particular reference to the Turnbull Report.
The departments recommendations and conclusions are forwarded to the relevant level of management, Executive Committee and Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Hampel Code.
The Directors have also considered the implications of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, which will apply to the Company for the 2004 05 financial year.
The Directors consider that the Company is already substantially compliant with the new Combined Code.
30 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
