com 45 Report on corporate governance The Board supports high standards in corporate governance.
Their appointment is subject to one months application during the financial year of the principles in Section 1 notice from either the Company or the Director.
Towards the end of of the Combined Code published by the Hampel Committee on the three-year period, the Board will consider whether to continue Corporate Governance in 1998 is described in the appropriate the appointment for a further three-year period.
sections of this statement and in the report on directors remuneration on pages 51 to 62.
The Directors consider that the At the time of a Directors appointment to the Board, an internal Company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 induction programme is provided on the Groups strategic and of the 1998 Combined Code, except for the service contract in business plans and developments to date.
The content of this respect of Rudolf Grger, which is for a xed term ending on induction programme and, where appropriate, any additional 31 October 2005 in recognition of local market practice, but will training which may be required by the Director is kept under review.
convert to a one-year rolling contract after the end of this initial Directors are also advised of their legal and other obligations as a period.
Additionally, in the event of termination of Mr Grgers Director of a listed company.
employment within 12 months of a change of control of mmO 2 or its German business, the employer is obliged to make a cash In accordance with the revised Combined Code and the Companys payment equal to two times his base salary and bonus.
The Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-election amount of bonus payable will be that expected for an on-target every three years.
On-target bonus is equal to 80 per cent of base salary.
The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Code Company and provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company on Corporate Governance the revised Combined Code which is within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets out the Companys values The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders arrangements in the light of the revised Combined Code and and other stakeholders are understood and met.
this report also reects changes which have been made as a consequence of that review.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year together with an annual off-site conference to review and discuss The Board corporate strategy.
Additional meetings are held as necessary.
During The Directors biographies appear on pages 41 and 42. the financial year ended 31 March 2004, the Board met nine times.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it Chief Financial officer, two further executive Directors, and seven for decision, including the approval of strategic plans and the annual independent non-executive Directors, which is considered to be an operating plan, significant investments and capital projects, and effective size and balance for the Company.
The Board considers that treasury and risk management policies.
All Directors take decisions all the non-executive Directors are independent under the criteria set objectively in the interests of the Company.
out in the revised Combined Code, including David Arculus at the date of the announcement of his appointment as Chairman from Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28 July 2004. timely delivery of papers by management to Directors for each Board meeting, so that the Directors have enough information The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the to be properly briefed.
Where issues arise at Board meetings, the Chief Executive officer has been set out in writing and agreed Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed and, where by the Board.
necessary, appropriate further enquiries are made.
Andrew Sukawaty, the Deputy Chairman, is recognised as the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company senior independent Director to whom concerns can be conveyed Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible independently of the Chairman or Chief Executive officer or Chief to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, Financial officer by other Directors or by shareholders.
maintaining compliance with all applicable rules and regulations, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment The differing roles of executive Directors and non-executive Directors and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board are clearly delineated, with both having duciary duties towards as a whole.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take, shareholders.
if necessary, independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years.
During the financial year, the non-executive Directors entered into revised Whilst not actively involved in the day-to-day management of the letters of appointment setting out their expected time commitment Company, the non-executive Directors play an important role in and key elements of the role, reecting the guidelines in Sir Derek bringing their independent judgement and considerable knowledge Higgs review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and experience to the Boards deliberations with their advice being 46 mmo2.
com Report on corporate governance reected in management meetings.
They have regular contact with Attendance senior managers in the business.
The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Board Committee meetings held during the year is detailed in the table below: During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with nonNomination executive Directors without the executive Directors present and the and non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present Audit Governance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee under the leadership of the senior independent Director.
One of 9 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings 8 meetings these latter meetings was to review the performance of the D Varney 9 n a 2 n a Chairman.
P Erskine 9 n a n a n a D Finch 9 n a n a n a During the financial year, the Board conducted an internal review R Grger 9 n a n a n a of its performance and that of its principal Board Committees and D McGlade 8 n a n a n a individual Directors.
Each Director completed a comprehensive 1 K Thexton 7 n a n a n a questionnaire and there were one-to-one interviews between the A Sukawaty 9 n a 2 8 Chairman and each Director.
Directors were asked to comment on D Arculus 9 2 2 n a matters such as the culture and approach of the Board, the effective D Chance 9 4 2 n a setting of strategy based on information about the business and S Hodge 9 4 n a 8 how the market operates, the quality and timeliness of information N Kroes 9 2 n a 8 provided, the composition of the Board, the role of the senior I Meakins 8 2 n a 7 independent Director, Board meeting processes, the form of P Myners 9 n a 2 7 continuing professional development, and communication of Board n a non-applicable as not a Committee member.
The results of this review were considered 1 Kent Thexton resigned from the Board on 4 February 2004. in one-to-one discussions with the Chairman and collectively at a Board meeting.
The Directors concluded that the Board and its Arrangements were made for any Directors who were unable to Committees operated effectively and that, as individuals, the attend meetings to discuss the agenda items with the relevant Directors were each contributing to the overall effectiveness Chairman of that meeting in advance.
Board Committees There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional The Board has delegated authority to the Committees described shareholders and fund managers and summaries of these discussions below on specic matters.
All of the Committees have formal terms and meetings are provided to the Board.
In addition, the Board of reference.
Minutes of meetings are formally recorded.
received a presentation on the findings of an independent investor audit.
These summaries and reports enable the Directors to gain an The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in and Remuneration Committees were reviewed and revised during the Company.
the year in the light of the recommendations in the Higgs Report and Sir Robert Smiths report on the role of audit committees.
The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance As part of that review, the Nomination Committee was renamed the in respect of legal action against its Directors.
The terms of reference of these Committees are posted on the Companys website and are The Board has adopted appropriate governance policies dealing available, on request, from the Company Secretary and General with the conduct of Board affairs and has delegated responsibility Counsel who acts as Secretary to these Committees.
The Board for monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole, reviews the membership of the Committees on an annual basis allocation of resources within agreed plans, implementation of at the start of each financial year or more frequently as policies and decisions relating to specic value-related commitments circumstances require.
to the Executive Committee and designated managers in accordance with a schedule of delegated authorities.
During the year, the Board disbanded the Finance Committee and delegated its responsibilities for reviewing and approving nancing and investment decisions to the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer and other specified senior managers.
Chairman: David Varney As referred to earlier, the Committee undertook a review of its terms The Chairmans Committee advises and assists the Chairman in the of reference following the issue of the revised Combined Code in preparation for Board meetings.
The Committee also acts on behalf July 2003 and reported back to the full Board.
The amended terms of the Board between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional of reference were approved by the Board in November 2003 and circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to convene a are available on the Companys website and, on request, from the meeting of the Board.
In addition to the Chairman, Peter Erskine Company Secretary and General Counsel.
and David Finch are members of the Committee.
Following the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, David Arculus The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Following will become Chairman of the Committee.
each meeting, the Committee members met with the external auditors in private.
The Committee members have also met privately Audit Committee.
Chairman: Stephen Hodge with the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee comprises Stephen Hodge, David Arculus, David Chance, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins.
The Committee worked to a structured programme of activities, with agenda matters focused to coincide with key events of the annual The Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the statements: reviews the Companys internal financial control system Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
The Committee and risk management systems: monitors and reviews the reviewed the following matters and reported its conclusions to the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: makes full Board: recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the financial disclosures contained in the Companys annual and the external auditors and recommends the audit fee and terms interim reports to shareholders and other interested parties: of engagement to the Board following appointment by the various accounting matters, including the Companys shareholders in general meeting: monitors and reviews the external accounting policies, raised by management and the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: considers auditors in the context of the financial disclosures: managements response to any major external or internal audit the Groups risk management process, including monitoring and recommendations: approves the appointment or dismissal of the progress on the management of key risks identied by the Head of Internal Audit: reviews the Companys procedure for Company and within the Groups operating businesses: handling allegations from whistleblowers: and considers other topics, the effectiveness of internal controls and measures to detect such as the Companys policies for preventing or detecting fraud and and prevent fraud: its code of corporate conduct business ethics.
the annual external audit plan for the Groups auditors.
This review included the audit objectives, auditor independence and Further details of the Committee and a report of its work during the objectivity policies, partner rotation, audit scope, team, financial year are set out below.
timetable, deliverables and fee proposal: the amount and purpose of non-audit fees.
As noted in last Audit Committee Report years annual report, the Board has adopted a formal policy The composition of the Committee was reviewed at the end of the governing the independence of the Companys external auditors previous financial year as part of the Boards overall review of its and dening those non-audit services that may be provided to governance committee arrangements.
Further details of the the Group, including those which require the prior approval of members of the Committee are set out in the biographies of the the Committee.
This was further reviewed and amended during Directors on pages 41 and 42. the financial year to provide for approval by the Chairman of the Committee of contracts relating to permissible tax services Stephen Hodge, as Chairman of the Committee, is considered by the up to an aggregated value of 25,000 between scheduled Board to be the audit committee financial expert and the member of Committee meetings.
Details of non-audit services are reviewed the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
He at each meeting of the Committee.
Further details of the receives an additional fee of 5,000 for acting as Chairman of the statutory audit and non-audit services fees are set out in note Committee, which is included in the Directors remuneration table 26 of the financial statements on page 90.
The policy also contained in the report on directors remuneration on page 57. covers employment of former auditor employees by the Company and audit partner rotation: The Company Secretary and General Counsel is secretary to the the external auditors year-end report and the findings of their Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board work and conrmation that all significant matters had been members.
Regular attendees to Committee meetings, at the satisfactorily resolved: invitation of the Committee, include the Chairman, Chief Executive the performance of the external auditors, which resulted in officer, Chief Financial officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the Committee recommending the re-appointment of representatives of the external auditors.
The Committee has  LLP as auditors to the Company: and authority to seek any information that it requires from any employee: the internal audit plan and resources for the internal audit authority to obtain independent professional advice: and access to function.
This review included detailed reports from the Head of sufficient resources generally to carry out its activities.
Internal Audit on progress on matters identied in the plan, current resources of the internal audit function and updates on matters requested by the Committee.
com Report on corporate governance The Committee has reviewed the ongoing and updated process for remuneration of the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company the handling of complaints received by the Company regarding Secretary and General Counsel, and members of the Executive accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for Committee, and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, the condential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns specic remuneration packages for each of these, including any regarding questionable accounting, auditing, employment, ethical or pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation other matters.
The Committee operates on the principle that members of the executive management should be The Committee received regular updates from the Company provided with appropriate incentives to encourage superior Secretary and General Counsel on corporate governance issues in performance and should, in a fair and responsible manner, be the UK and US, emanating from the revised Combined Code and rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 51 to 62.
The Committee also received minutes of all meetings of the Disclosure Committee.
Details of the remit of this Committee are The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and provided in the internal control section of this report.
comprising the other executive Directors and his senior executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Company, the preparation and maintenance of strategic plans for Chairman: David Varney the Group, and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the The Committee comprises David Varney, David Arculus, David Group as a whole.
Chance, Paul Myners and Andrew Sukawaty.
Following the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, David Arculus US corporate governance compliance will become Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is mmO American Depositary Shares are traded on the New York 2 responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Company is required to comply with Board and for recommending candidates for Board membership for those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented the approval of the Board.
by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to foreign issuers.
In the appointment of new Directors, the Committee reviews the current balance of skills on the Board.
It draws up a specication to Under the NYSE rules, listed foreign issuers, like mmO, must 2 include any specic knowledge or expertise it considers of future disclose any significant ways in which their corporate governance benefit to the Board having regard to the business throughout the practices differ from those followed by US domestic companies Group and the overall strategy.
External search agents are used under NYSE listing standards.
There are no significant differences in during the recruitment process.
The agents put forward a short list the corporate governance practices followed by mmO as compared 2 of candidates for the Committee to review before submitting its to those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing recommendation to the Board.
Whilst the Chairman of the Board standards, except that mmO follows the recommendations in the 2 chairs this Committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings when revised Combined Code with respect to membership of its the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
Nomination and Governance Committee which permits membership of this Committee to be composed of a majority of independent The Committee ensures that the performance of the Chairman, non-executive Directors.
The NYSE listing standards require that the senior independent Director and other Directors is regularly Nomination Committee be composed entirely of independent reviewed.
During the financial year, the Committee met twice.
It recommended Internal control to the Board those Directors who should retire by rotation and seek Responsibility re-election at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and considered the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of leadership needs and succession plans of the Group as a whole.
It internal control and risk management and for reviewing the also established a sub-committee of all the non-executive Directors effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to to review the performance evaluation processes and succession plans manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business for all Directors.
The process leading to the selection of the new objectives: any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute Chairman was conducted by an ad-hoc committee of independent assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman and advised by an independent executive search agency.
The Board sets the policy on Internal Control and Risk Management that is implemented by management.
This policy is in accordance Remuneration Committee.
Chairman: Andrew Sukawaty with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors The Committee comprises Andrew Sukawaty, Stephen Hodge, Neelie on the Combined Code.
Kroes, Ian Meakins and Paul Myners.
The Committee is responsible for determining the framework and broad policy for the mmo2.
com 49 Internal Control compliance, Risk Management and Internal Audit reported to an appropriate level of management and corrective are the responsibility of separate functions within the Company action is taken.
but they operate holistically to deliver an effective internal control system.
Assurance The Audit Committee receives a summary six-monthly report from In the case of joint ventures and associated undertakings, where the Chief Executive officer on the effectiveness of the Companys the Group does not have operating responsibility, our policy is to internal controls which is based on senior management reports on inuence and encourage our own high standards of Internal Control their area of responsibility.
This includes: and Risk Management and to offer practical advice wherever the Group risk registers, risk maps and dashboards: and appropriate.
the Group Corporate Governance Certicates authorised by the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer.
Control environment As referred to earlier in this report, the Audit Committee, on behalf Disclosure of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers the control procedures in the Group during the financial year.
It reviews materiality of information and the respective disclosure obligations reports from the Executive Committee and from both the internal in releases made to regulatory bodies.
This Committee assists the and external auditors, keeping under review the scope and results of Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer to evaluate the the audit and the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures in the auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Groups order to ensure that material information relating to the Group is internal auditors carry out regular assessments of the quality of the made known to them.
Internal Control and Risk Management process as part of their cyclical risk-based audit approach.
The Internal Control and Risk Annual assessment Management policies were reviewed during the year, and the The Board has reviewed the nature, extent and development of the Internal Control policy was updated.
significant risks to the business.
The Groups current key risks are summarised in risk factors on pages 39 and 40.
Risk management The Group has a detailed ongoing risk management process for On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed regularly identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and reported its the Company.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of The Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have the Groups annual strategic planning cycle and this includes the concluded, after evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups consideration of major business risks by senior management.
disclosure controls and procedures within the past 90 days, that mmO s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring 2 The risk management process comprises the following key elements: that material information relating to the Company is made known to Group operating companies and key functions in the business them by others within the Group.
The procedures provide reasonable carry out risk assessments, using workshop techniques, to assurance that problems are identied on a timely basis and dealt determine the nature and extent of risks facing the Company: with accordingly.
the Executive Committee undertakes a formal Group-wide risk review every six months, which is reviewed by the Board.
Risk There were no significant changes in the Companys internal controls management is a formal item at each Executive Committee or in other factors that could signicantly affect internal controls meeting: subsequent to the date of the most recent evaluation.
registers are produced which detail significant risks and indicate likelihood, impact, and the level of controls, together with These processes have been in place for the whole of the financial mitigating actions: year and have continued up to the date on which this document the prole of the significant risks from the registers is was approved.
summarised and tracked using a consolidated risk map: senior management is accountable and responsible for Business principles managing risks within the Group, supported by dedicated risk To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our managers.
These risk managers assist in embedding risk standards of business ethics and corporate governance, mmO has 2 management within the business culture via risk forums, team a set of Business Principles covering the whole Group including its meetings, training sessions and the Companys intranet: Directors and senior financial ofcers, which have been endorsed by the Internal Audit function also promotes effective risk the Chairman.
There have been no waivers or changes to these management in the business operations: and Business Principles during the year.
A copy of the statement is a fast track process for identifying and responding to evolving available on the Companys website.
These high-level principles are risks and significant changes to existing risks so that they are supported by a condential helpline and e-mail facility, which are 50 mmo2.
com Report on corporate governance available to employees who want to report incidents and for those statements, are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on who have questions regarding the application of the principles.
At last years Annual General Meeting the The Company also continues to require its business partners and number of proxy votes received for or against each resolution, suppliers to apply these principles when dealing with mmO.
together with the number of proxy abstentions, were indicated after 2 the vote had been dealt with on a show of hands.
In accordance Corporate responsibility with evolving best practice, all of the resolutions being proposed The Board takes regular account of significant social, environmental at the Companys 2004 Annual General Meeting will be conducted and ethical issues that affect the Group.
This includes risks and by way of a poll.
The poll results will be notied to the UK Listing opportunities that relate to our people, our supply chain, our Authority and published on the Companys website following customers, the environment and society around us.
verication by the Companys share registrar.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and The management of these issues are covered in the corporate Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions at responsibility section of this report, on pages 19 and 20, which the Annual General Meeting.
contains information in accordance with the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility, issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The Companys website provides financial and other business information about the Group.
It contains an archive of past We are also producing a separate externally veried Corporate announcements and annual reports, share price information and Responsibility report, which will be available in July 2004.
Copies of a calendar of events as well as information on mmO s approach 2 the report can be obtained from the Companys website or, on to corporate responsibility and the Companys Business Principles.
request, from the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Going concern Investor relations The Directors have reviewed the Groups liquid resources and The Company is committed to ongoing development of open and borrowing facilities, and the Groups budget and cash ow forecast effective communications with shareholders.
The Chief Executive for the year to 31 March 2005, and outline projections for the officer and the Chief Financial officer regularly meet with subsequent year.
On the basis of this review, the Directors are institutional shareholders and analysts and the Companys Annual satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the private investors and encourage their participation.
All substantial Directors adopt the going-concern basis in the preparation of the issues, including the adoption of the annual report and financial financial statements.
