Corporate Governance Introduction Antofagasta plc has an uncommon ownership structure for a UK-listed company.
The former Chairman, Mr. A A Luksic, and his family interests control 65.08% of the ordinary share capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital of the Company, principally through two investment vehicles, Metalinvest Establishment and Sandypoint Establishment.
A Relationship Agreement was entered into between the Company and the major shareholder in 1998 which requires, inter alia, transactions between any member of the Group and the major shareholder to be on arms length terms and approved by the independent Directors.
While incorporated in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Groups businesses, which comprise mining, transport and water distribution, are nearly all located in Chile, the largest copper-producing country in the world.
Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the operations of the Group with a view to maximising value to all shareholders.
Following changes to Board membership subsequent to the year end, the Board now has nine members, comprising an Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Two of the nine Directors including the Chairman are members of the Luksic family, and seven of the nine Directors are based in Chile.
The day to day operations of the Group are carried on through the boards of each division of the Group, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Antofagasta Railway Company plc railway and other transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution.
Each division is headed by a chief executive officer who reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of the Group.
The Antofagasta Board oversees these divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
In its consideration of Corporate Governance matters, the Board is mindful of the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
However, given the ownership structure and asset base of the Group, the Board believes that full adherence to the Combined Code is not practicable.
Nevertheless, the Board considers that its structure and balance set out in more detail below under Directors provide an appropriate basis for ensuring its effectiveness and the protection of the interests of all shareholders in the Company.
The Board describes below how it applies the corporate governance principles contained in the Combined Code which applied to the Company for the first time in respect of the financial year ended 30 December 2004.
A number of areas, principally in relation to board structure, in respect of which the Company did not comply with the detailed Code provisions are set out at the end of this report.
Directors The Board The Directors collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
Following three appointments after 1 January 2005, the Board currently comprises an Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors, five of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Seven of 51 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Governance these Directors, including the Chairman, are based in Chile, where the Groups operations are principally located and two Directors are based in the United Kingdom, where the Company is incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board normally meets approximately ten times a year, and is responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives, reviewing the Groups performance and overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
The Chairman will always seek to persuade the Board to act as a single team by obtaining consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will be taken by majority.
Agenda for Board meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation with the other Directors.
Responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
Accordingly, the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Antofagasta Railway Company plc railway and other transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution meet monthly to consider strategic, operational and risk management issues in more detail.
There is substantial overlap between membership of the Board of Antofagasta plc and these three divisional boards.
The chief executive officer of each division reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of the Group, and the Board oversees these divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing the performance of management.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting goals and objectives and also monitor the reporting of performance, through the activities of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
Directors who served during 2004 are set out on page 2.
As explained above, there have been a number of changes to Board membership both during and subsequent to 2004.
Mr. D E Yarur was appointed to the Board on 31 March 2004 as an independent Non-Executive Director and Mr. A A Luksic retired from the Board on 5 November 2004 when he was replaced by Mr. J-P Luksic as Chairman.
On 31 March 2005, Mr. P J Adeane ceased to be an Executive Director but continues to serve on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Three further Non-Executive appointments were made subsequent to the year-end.
Mr. G A Luksic was appointed on 6 April 2005 and Mr. J W Ambrus and Mr. G J Claro were appointed on 3 May 2005.
The recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director is Mr. C H Bailey, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr. G S Menendez is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee, until his retirement from the Board, was Mr. A A Luksic.
The Board does not have a Director formally designated as Chief Executive.
Chairman and Chief Executive As explained above, Mr. J-P Luksic replaced his father, Mr. A A Luksic, as Chairman upon the latters retirement from the Board on 5 November 2004.
Mr. J-P Luksics role is that of a full-time Executive Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that are expected to conflict with this role.
Mr. J-P Luksic was Deputy Chairman of the Board until his appointment and, until 26 November 2004, 52 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 was Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
He was not replaced as Deputy Chairman, but has been replaced by Mr. Marcelo Awad as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. Mr. Miguel Seplveda continues to be the Chief Executive Officer of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Mr. Marco Kutulas continues to be the Chief Executive Officer of Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Mr. J-P Luksic was the Boards unanimous choice to become Chairman.
He has significant knowledge and understanding of Chile and the Latin American mining industry through his experience on the Board of Antofagasta plc and formerly as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Board believes that he is best placed to continue to implement the Companys long-term strategy, which has created a major mining company and a constituent of the FTSE-100 Index, despite not meeting the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code at the time of appointment.
The Board also believes that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power by Mr. J-P Luksic having executive responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the structure of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees designed to devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman, and the delegation of management responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division.
Board Balance and Independence The Board considers five of its eight Non-Executive Directors to be independent Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. D E Yarur, Mr. G W Ambrus and Mr. R G Claro.
The Board is satisfied that this balance limits the scope for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards decision-making.
The Report of the Directors on pages 47 and 48 sets out biographical details of each Director and identifies those Directors standing for re-election.
Mr. Yarur, Mr. Ambrus and Mr. Claro meet the independence criteria set out in Code Provision A3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to their independence.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years, since he does not receive any other remuneration from the Company other than Non-Executive Directors fees, nor does he have any other relationships with the Company or its majority shareholder.
The Board is also satisfied that Mr. Menendez remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has also served on the Board for more than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled by the former Chairman, Mr. A A Luksic and his family and Banco fide Chile, part of the Quienco group.
This is because he does not receive any remuneration from the Group other than in a Non-Executive capacity.
His position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive director.
The Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menendezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Board given their wealth of knowledge and experience of the Group and of Latin America and the mining industry, and therefore proposes both for re-election.
53 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Governance The Board does not consider Mr. Jara, Mr. Adeane or Mr. G A Luksic to be independent.
Mr. Jara provides advisory services to the Group, as explained in the Report on Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 62 to 65.
Until 2004, he was also a partner in Jara del Favero, a Chilean law firm which provides legal services to the Group.
Mr. Adeane was an Executive Director employed by the Group until he became a Non-Executive Director on 31 March 2005.
Mr. G A Luksic is the brother of Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Mr. G A Luksic is also Chairman of Quienco S. A. and a director of its listed subsidiaries, some of which Mr. J-P Luksic and Mr. G S Menendez are non-executive directors and which, like Antofagasta, are controlled by the former Chairman, Mr. A A Luksic and his family interests.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. C H Bailey and Mr. R F Jara.
Mr. A A Luksic was a member and the chairman of the Nomination Committee until his retirement on 5 November 2004 and has been replaced by Mr. Menendez.
As explained above, Mr. Bailey and Mr. Menendez are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for new board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In fulfilling these responsibilities, the Nomination Committee consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Nominations Committee meets as necessary and at least once a year.
Its terms of reference are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
In making appointments, the Nomination Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
It considers the potential candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining industry in Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory environment and that he has sufficient time to devote to the role.
As explained above, a number of appointments were made in 2004 and to date in 2005.
The Non-Executive appointments were considered by the Nomination Committee and then by the Board, applying the criteria set out on pages 52 and 53.
As the Nomination Committee and the Board believed that it had been able to identify appropriate candidates through its knowledge of the appropriate industrial and geographical sectors, advertising the post or using a search agency was considered to be unnecessary.
The appointment of Mr. J-P Luksic as Chairman was considered directly by the Board as set out under Chairman and Chief Executive on pages 52 and 53.
The Chairman ensures that new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
In Mr. Yarurs case, this included a detailed briefing about the Group and its operations, information 54 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 on his duties and responsibilities as a director of a UK-listed company, meetings with members of senior management and visits to operational sites.
All shareholders were given the opportunity to meet Mr. Yarur at the Annual General Meeting held in June 2004.
A similar induction process is in place for the newlyappointed Non-Executive Directors.
Letters of appointment have been put in place for all Non-Executive Directors.
These require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Information and Professional Development The Directors receive information for review ahead of each Board or Committee Meeting.
In addition, they receive regular reports and forecasts for the Group and each significant operation to ensure that they remain properly briefed about the performance and financial position of the Group throughout the year.
All Directors have access to management, including the Company Secretary, and to such further information as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company also provides Directors with the necessary resources to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the Group as a whole.
The UK-based Directors visit Chile regularly and at least once a year, and the Chilean-based Directors also regularly visit the UK, again at least once a year.
The Company Secretary, together with Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Performance Evaluation The Board periodically considers its performance and effectiveness.
Following the appointment of Mr. J-P Luksic as Chairman towards the end of 2004, a performance evaluation was conducted in 2005 by Mr. G S Menendez, covering the Board, its committees and its individual members.
Mr. C H Bailey, as the senior independent Non-Executive Director was responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation were discussed with the Chairman and considered by the Board.
The Board took this into account in the decision to appoint additional Non-Executive Directors and to recommend the re-appointment of the Directors standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
A further evaluation will be conducted towards the end of 2005 to ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board in view of the changes that have been made recently.
55 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Governance Re-election Each Director is re-elected by shareholders at the annual general meeting following his first appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for up to one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation each year, and the Board ensures that each Director is re-elected at least once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
The Directors retiring and standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting are Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. J-P Luksic, Mr. P J Adeane, Mr. G A Luksic, Mr. J W Ambrus and Mr. J G Claro.
Biographical details of these Directors are set out set out in the Report of the Directors on pages 47 and 48.
The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Directors Attendance at Meetings in 2004 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2004, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number held: 11 4 1 3 1 1 A A Luksic 4 n a 1 n a J-P Luksic 11 n a n a n a P J Adeane 8 n a n a n a 2 C H Bailey 10 4 - 3 G S Menendez 10 4 1 3 3 3 R F Jara 10 2 11 4 5 5 D E Yarur 8 2 n a 2 1 Mr. A A Luksic retired as a Director on 5 November 2004 and therefore could only have attended 9 Board meetings during the year.
2 Mr. C H Bailey was unable to attend the Nomination Committee and Board meeting at which Mr. D E Yarurs appointment was approved.
He was nevertheless fully consulted and, having discussed the matter with the other committee members, he consented to the appointment prior to the meeting.
3 Mr. R F Jara stood down as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 10 May 2004 and therefore could only have attended 2 Audit Committee meetings and 1 Remuneration Committee meeting during the year.
4 Mr. D E Yarur was appointed as a Director on 31 March 2004 and therefore could only have attended 9 Board meetings during the year.
5 Mr. D E Yarur was appointed as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 10 May 2004 and therefore could only have attended 2 Audit Committee meetings and 2 Remuneration Committee meetings during the year.
All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in June 2004.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting at which his own position was being considered.
56 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a statement of the Companys policy on remuneration, and the remuneration details and shareholding interests of each Director are contained in the Report on Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 61 to 65.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable: state whether applicable accounting policies have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will remain in business.
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking any reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Boards statement on going concern is included in the Financial Review on page 32.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Any such system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to and including the date of approval of the 2004 Annual Report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing Authority.
57 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Governance This process is based on a Group-wide analysis of risks and controls in conjunction with each operation which is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis through the year.
The analysis covers the assessment of financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures including health, safety and environmental issues.
These procedures are complemented by an internal audit programme to examine the operation of controls in key areas.
As part of its normal process, during 2004, the Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, conducted an overall review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control covering all significant business risks.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Board takes into account the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and is responsible for the relevant policies of the Group.
Through the Groups risk management processes described under Internal Control above, key issues of social responsibility are identified and assessed.
More information on corporate social responsibility is given on pages 35 to 43 of the Annual Report.
Whistleblowing Procedures The Audit Committee, whose other functions are described below, is responsible for reviewing arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
These matters were considered by the Audit Committee in 2004, and whistleblowing procedures have now been approved by the Board.
These include the development of an Ethics Code which is being introduced across the Group, which includes a procedure to enable employees to raise concerns, anonymously if necessary.
An Ethics Committee, has also been formed which is responsible for implementing, developing and updating this code and investigating any allegations of impropriety.
The Ethics Committee reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee currently comprises Mr. C H Bailey chairman, Mr. G S Menendez and Mr. D E Yarur, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr. Yarur was appointed to the Audit Committee on 10 May 2004 and Mr. R F Jara stood down from the Committee on the same date.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice and normally four times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
The Audit Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
In particular, it reviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditors including their objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the provision of any non-audit services and for making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
It reviews the internal control and risk assessment procedures adopted by the Group described in the 58 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 section on internal controls above.
It also monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Directors statements on internal controls and reviews the going concern basis prior to endorsement by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employees and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
The Companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have provided non-audit services to the Company, principally relating to tax compliance in 2004 and which amounted to less than US$0.1 million.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditors are not in any way impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The Audit Committee has also considered the effectiveness of the external audit function through the year through meetings with Deloitte & Touche LLP, a review of their audit plan and a consideration of the results of work performed by the external auditors prior to release of the interim and full year results.
Relations with Shareholders Directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional shareholders and analysts in the United Kingdom, Chile and the United States.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Mr. C H Bailey, also attend a number of meetings with major shareholders during the year.
Other Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
These meetings ensure that the Board is able to develop an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
The Company carries out a formal programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group after the announcement of the interim and full year results.
In addition, mine production, transport tonnages and water volumes are published on a quarterly basis.
Copies of these results and production announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by the Company are available on its website.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders and the Board of Directors encourages their attendance.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of the resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
59 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained in the Combined Code throughout 2004 except as follows: Mr. J-P Luksic did not meet the relevant independence criteria at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 5 November 2004, as he was then Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. the Groups mining division.
Following the appointment of Mr. J-P Luksic as Chairman, the Board does not have a separately identified Chief Executive provisions A2.1 and A2.2 : Until Mr. D E Yarur was appointed as a Director on 31 March 2004, independent Non-Executive Directors did not comprise half the Board excluding the Chairman provision A.
3.2 : Until Mr. A A Luksic retired from the Board on 5 November 2004, a majority of members of the Nomination Committee were not independent Non-Executive Directors provision A.
4.1 : Until Mr. R F Jara stood down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 10 May 2004 and was replaced by Mr. D E Yarur, these two Committees were not comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors provisions B.
2.1 & C. 3.1 : and Performance related pay measures do not apply to all Executive Directors provision B.
60 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
