Directors report: The Directors present their report together with the financial statements 833 employees have options over the Companys Ordinary shares.
and auditors report for the year ended 4 January 2005.
Details of the outstanding options are given in note 23 on page 51.
In addition 189 German employees are currently participating in the Principal activities and business review German Employee Share Option Scheme.
There are currently no The Company is the ultimate holding company of a group of participants in the Companys US Employee Share Purchase Plan subsidiary undertakings engaged in the manufacture and marketing following the maturity of outstanding options during 2004. of carbon, ceramic and magnetic components for application in a Directors wide range of industries and services the Group.
A review of developments affecting the Group during the year and its prospects All those who served as Directors throughout the year under review are for the future appear on pages 1 to 13. listed on pages 16 and 17.
Disposals In addition Mr N Young was a Director at the beginning of the year but resigned as a Director on 14 September 2004 and The Company disposed of a number of its businesses during the year Mr M Robertshaw was appointed a Director of the Company on under review.
The Groups Auto and Consumer Business was sold for 20 October 2004.
Sir Alan Cox and Sir Clive Whitmore retired as US$55.5 million 30.5 million at a loss of 40.3 million.
The Companys non-executive Directors on 23 April 2004 and 31 December 2004 subsidiary, Morgan Advanced Ceramics Limited sold the business and respectively.
Mr M Flower was appointed a non-executive Director assets of its E M Coatings facility in the UK for 3.4 million at a loss of of the Company on 10 December 2004.
Since the year-end Mr S Heale 0.2 million: the Companys subsidiary, Morgan Advanced Ceramics was appointed a non-executive Director on 18 February 2005.
Inc. sold the business and assets of its Coatings facility in Peachtree In addition the Company announced the appointment of Dr H Eisele City, USA for US$6.35 million 3.55 million at a loss of 0.9 million: the and Mr M Lejman as executive Directors to be effective from U. S. Fulmer Brushholder business of the Companys subsidiary, National 1 March 2005.
Electrical Carbon Products Inc, was sold for US$2 million 1.1 million at a loss of 5.9 million: the Company disposed of its subsidiary, Morgan The details of those Directors who will be offering themselves for Advanced Ceramics SAS in France for 21.2 million 0.9 million at a election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting loss of 1.4 million.
on 22 April 2005 will be set out in the Circular to Shareholders which will be posted in March 2005.
Share capital Details of the background and experience of all the Directors and The Companys share capital, together with details of shares issued details of Board Committees on which they serve can be found on during the year including 58,019,093 Shares issued by the Company pages 16 and 17. pursuant to a Rights Issue in February 2004, are set out in note 23 on page 51.
Donations Financial results Morgan companies made the undermentioned charitable donations.
The loss after taxation for the year ended 4 January 2005 was United Kingdom 89,257 81.3 million 2003: loss 75.6 million.
Loss before tax for the same Overseas 79,625 period was 78.4 million 2003: loss 78.0 million.
Turnover was 168,882 795.9 million 2003: 849.6 million and operating profit before goodwill, amortisation and operating exceptionals was 53.7 million No political donations have been made.
Loss per share was 29.5 pence 2003: loss per Substantial shareholdings share 31.9 pence.
Capital and reserves at the end of the year were 240.4 million 2003: 259.8 million The retained loss of 83.1 million The Directors have been advised of the following holdings representing will be transferred to reserves.
The Groups accounting policies can 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company: be found on pages 32 and 33.
Company Number of Profit appropriations Ordinary shares % No dividends were paid in respect of the Ordinary capital relating to Schroder Investment Management Limited 29,199,031 10.06 the period under review.
It is not proposed to pay a final dividend.
Classic Fund Management A. G. 12,986,570 4.47 Policy on the payment of creditors Standard Life Investments 12,309,219 4.24 Morley Fund Management Limited 10,723,373 3.69 The Companys policy in relation to its suppliers is, where possible, to Legal & General Group Plc 10,027,472 3.45 settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms, provided that it is satisfied that the supplier provided the goods and services in accordance with the Post balance sheet events agreed terms and conditions.
The Company and its subsidiaries do not There have been no material events since the year-end.
follow any one code or standard on payment practice due to the diverse nature of the global markets in which the Group operates.
Auditors The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office Company at the end of the year was 25 days and for the Group and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the was 40 days.
Research and development Annual General Meeting The spend on research and development, which excludes the amounts spent working with customers by way of product The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on enhancement and application engineering, was 11.7 million during 22 April 2005 at St. Annes Manor Hotel, London Road, Wokingham, the year 2003: 15.7 million.
A Circular will be sent to shareholders in March incorporating the Notice of Annual General Meeting and detailing Personnel any special business to be transacted at that time.
Details of the Companys and the Groups personnel policies and By Order of the Board employee involvement are disclosed on page 23.
David Coker Secretary Employee share and share option schemes 22 February 2005 The Company operates a number of employee share and share option schemes.
Under the rules of the Morgan Crucible Long Term Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP.
Incentive Plan LTIP, awards have been made to 59 employees.
286773 Under the rules of the employee and executive share option schemes, 18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Directors report Corporate governance: Statement by the Directors on compliance with the During 2003 the non-executive Directors met without the Chairman Combined Code present.
However, reflecting the fact that in 2004 there was a new Chairman, during the year there was no meeting of the non-executive The Board of Directors of the Company supports the principles Directors without the Chairman present.
With Mr D Godwin now of corporate governance set out in the new Combined Code established as senior independent Director it is intended that this the Code on Corporate Governance introduced by the Financial practice will be reinstated in 2005.
It confirms that throughout the year ended 4 January 2005 the Company has been in compliance with the An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is Codes provisions, with the exception of separate non-executive in place.
Director meetings and Board performance evaluation.
Both are Chairman and Chief Executive discussed in detail below, and procedures to comply with both are Following the practice which has been in force within the Company currently being implemented.
In addition, the Board has considered, for many years, the roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are and where appropriate implemented, the guidelines on corporate separate.
This division of responsibilities is clearly established, set out in social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers, as writing, and agreed by the Board.
Board Balance and Independence Information on how the Company has applied the principles of In the year under review, the Company complied with the the Code and the ABI guidelines on corporate social responsibility requirement of the Code that there should be a balance of executive disclosure are included in this section on Corporate Governance, and non-executive Directors.
At the year end, in addition to the the review of Corporate Responsibility and the Report of the Chairman, the Board comprised two executive Directors and three Remuneration Committee.
During the year, all of the non-executive The Board maintains a Corporate Governance Manual which is Directors were deemed by the Company to be independent.
Since the year-end two additional executive Directors have been Directors appointed and the Nominations Committee is in the process of seeking further candidates as potential non-executive Directors to The Board ensure continuation of the correct Board balance.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its Appointments and Re-election to the Board effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims and The Nomination Committee ensures that the Code requirements of values, and ensured there is a framework of prudent and effective a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for nominations to controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Directors the Board are met.
Candidates for appointment as Director are confirm that during the year they have carried out a review of the considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and risk where appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for management, and of management performance evaluation.
implementing the Boards policy on succession planning to ensure that there is planned and progressive refreshing of the Board, as required Biographies of the Directors and their membership of relevant by the Code.
The election or re-election of any individual Director at Committees is shown on pages 16 and 17.
During the year, a number an Annual General Meeting is considered in each case and is of changes were made to the Board: following the Annual General recommended by the Board to shareholders in the circular sent to Meeting Sir Alan Cox retired on 23 April, Mr M Robertshaw was them with the Notice of Meeting.
Each Director must be re-elected appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 20 October, replacing every three years and reappointment for a second term is not Mr N Young.
Sir Clive Whitmore retired on 31 December 2004 and automatic.
Directors interests are disclosed and none of the Mr M Flower was appointed to the Board on 10 December 2004. non-executive Directors have any direct business relationships with The Board has named Mr D Godwin as senior independent Director the Company.
Further details on the process of selection of Directors in place of Sir Clive Whitmore.
Since the year-end Mr S Heale was are given in the Nomination Committee report.
appointed a non-executive Director on 18 February 2005 and the Company has also announced the appointment of Dr H Eisele and Information and Professional Development Mr M Lejman as executive Directors on 1 March 2005.
The Code requires that the Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to Attendance at Board meetings and at Audit, Remuneration and discharge its duties, and that all Directors should receive induction on Nomination Committee meetings are set out in the table below.
joining the Board and should regularly update and refresh their skills Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and knowledge.
Number held 6 5 6 2 Board papers are generally sent out five days before each meeting.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining Lars Kylberg 6 5 6 2 the Board, and all have letters of appointment confirming what is Warren Knowlton 6 2 expected of them.
The Directors have access to the advice and Sir Alan Cox 2 2 2 2 1 1 services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring Martin Flower 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and David Godwin 6 5 5 2 regulations are observed.
The Directors may also seek independent Joseph MacHale 6 5 5 2 professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with Mark Robertshaw 1 1 their duties as Directors, and a procedure is in place to facilitate this.
Sir Clive Whitmore 4 3 6 2 Nigel Young 3 3 Performance Evaluation During 2004 the Board agreed a process for monitoring its own The numbers in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings performance, and that of its Committees and individual Directors, a Director could have attended, allowing for the period during which as required by the Code: and will implement this in 2005. he was a Board or committee member if less than the full year Remuneration under review.
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration The Board met formally six times during 2004. report on page 25.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, Accountability and Audit including the acquisition and disposal of businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, the review of effective risk The Code requires the Board to present a balanced and management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
There is a formal agenda for each meeting of the The Annual Report provides this information under the Chief Board, with all Directors able to request items to be added.
Various Executives review, the Directors report and the financial statements.
matters are delegated to duly authorised subcommittees of the Board.
The Board also presents updated information in its interim reports and These committees met regularly in 2004. other price sensitive announcements.
19 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Relationship with Shareholders is set out on page 22 and the going concern statement is set out in Dialogue with shareholders the Financial Review on page 15.
The importance of dialogue with major shareholders in the Company is Financial Review recognised and meetings are held in order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Internal Control Executive and Chief Financial Officer make themselves available to The Code requires that the Board maintains a sound system of internal major shareholders as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys the time of the preliminary and interim announcements.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and and Senior Independent Director hold separate meetings with major maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing shareholders when requested.
Non-executive Directors are their effectiveness.
The Directors have delegated the establishment encouraged to attend investor briefings.
The Companys website is and implementation of the system to the Executive Committee and also used for informing existing and potential investors of Morgans the monitoring to the Executive and Audit Committees.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting controls provides reasonable, if not absolute, assurance that the assets The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of of the Group are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and the Board and by a representative of the Auditors.
At the end of the recorded in a correct and timely manner and that such controls Meeting the results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or for all attendees.
In addition, following the formal Meeting, individual irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, shareholders have an opportunity to meet personally with the Directors risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, and other senior management.
The internal control framework complements the Groups management structure.
The main features Board Committees of the formal system for assessing the potential risks to which the Group The terms of reference of the following Board committees are is exposed are summarised as follows: available upon request and are on the Companys website.
Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each global Audit business exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved by the Board.
Businesses present their revenue and capital Membership as at 4 January 2005 consisted of Mr D Godwin, expenditure budgets to the Executive Committee for approval.
Mr M Flower and Mr J MacHale who is the Committee Chairman, Monthly results for the Group are presented to the Executive all of whom are independent Directors.
The Committee has the Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any and the prior year.
The Groups annual and half yearly results are Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered reported externally, in addition to appropriate trading statements.
appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee also The annual results are audited and the half yearly results are meets with the auditors without the presence of executive Directors or reviewed by the auditors.
Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and The Audit Committees terms of reference are: of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial budget and the prior year.
Global Business management meetings are performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting also held regularly to review performance.
Presentations of actual and judgements contained in them: forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee by the Groups Global Business Presidents.
In addition, regular site visits are reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and, unless made by members of the Executive Committee.
expressly addressed by a separate Board Risk Committee composed of independent Directors, or by the Board itself, to review the Risk management The identification of major business risks is an Companys internal control and risk management systems: ongoing process, and is carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit internal Audit function: Committee, receives regular reports on financial, treasury, making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the taxation, insurance, pension, legal, information systems and social, shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the environmental and ethical risks from the Executive Committee.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Auditor The Global Business Presidents cover risk issues at their management and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the meetings and Business Risk Management Committees help ensure external Auditor: that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations.
reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the Audit process, taking Risk factors The business of Morgan is affected by a number of factors, into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory many of which are influenced by macroeconomic trends and are requirements: and therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although as described above the identification and management of such risks are developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the systematically assessed.
Supply chain related risks are now being external Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account incorporated into this systematic assessment.
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external Audit firm: and to report to the Board, Audit Committee and Auditors identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or The Code requires that the Board establishes formal and transparent improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the financial steps to be taken.
reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys Auditors.
This requirement The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in is met by the work of the Audit Committee, as described below, 2004 included: and by the audit work carried out by the Companys external reviewing the Groups 2003 financial statements and 2004 interim Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
The Audit Committee has received from results statements prior to Board approval: KPMG Audit Plc confirmation that its general procedures support their independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit reviewing the Circular for the Rights Issue: services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial statements Committee was that the Auditors objectivity and independence of the proposed International Financial Reporting Standards: was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit Plc.
20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance assessing the Groups main business risks and receiving regular Nomination updates on areas of risk in financial control in accordance with the Membership as at 4 January 2005 consists of Mr L Kylberg as Chairman, Turnbull Committee guidance: Mr D Godwin, Mr M Flower and Mr W Knowlton.
The Committee has reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit: and the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered confirmation of external Auditor terms of engagement and fee appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
structure, and monitoring the non-audit work of the Auditors, which in 2004 principally consisted of advice on the Rights Issue, and the The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments disposal of the Auto and Consumer business.
and makes recommendations to the Board.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed arrangements by which staff Mr L Kylberg chairs the Committee, but would not chair the of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the appointment improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, and is of his successor.
ensuring these arrangements are more widely promulgated.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge Remuneration and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, Membership as at 4 January 2005 consists of Mr D Godwin who is the prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a Committee Chairman, Mr J MacHale, and Mr M Flower.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting There is a clear policy in place for the appointment of a Chairman, remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including and this was implemented in 2003.
The policy requires that the pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also Nomination Committee prepares a job specification, including an recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising the need senior management.
The definition of senior management for this for availability in the event of crises.
A Chairmans other significant purpose includes the management below Board level.
The Committee commitments would be disclosed to the Board before appointment is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company and included in the annual report.
Changes to such commitments Secretary and the Director of Group Personnel, none of whom takes would be reported to the Board as they arose, and would be included part in discussion of their own remuneration or votes on any resolution.
in the next annual report.
The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman expected time commitment, as non-executive Directors are asked of the Committee.
to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
Their other significant commitments The Committee reviews contracts and authorises the remuneration, are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with a broad performance-related and discretionary bonuses including indication of the time involved and the Board is informed of performance targets and other benefits of the executive Directors.
The terms of appointment for non-executive All executive Directors are on 12 months notice of termination.
Directors do not include a notice period.
It is policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
Mr W Knowlton serves During 2004 one new non-executive Director and a new Chief as a non-executive Director of Smith and Nephew plc and his fees in Financial Officer were appointed.
The appointment process included this regard are shown on page 28. the use of external recruitment consultants to provide information on potential candidates and to draw up a shortlist to present to the The Committee uses specialist remuneration consultants where Nomination Committee, which then interviewed the candidates and appropriate.
These consultants have no other connection with submitted recommendations to the Board.
The Committee sets relevant criteria for awards granted by it under the Companys various share and share option schemes.
In 2004, shareholders were invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive schemes as defined in the Listing Rules and details of these schemes can be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 26.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in share schemes and bonuses nor do they qualify for pension benefits.
During 2004 this Committee met on six occasions.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares is set out on pages 25 to 29.
21 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By Order of the Board David Coker Secretary 22 February 2005 22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance
