NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 21 N Brown Group plc 21 Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement Combined Code The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and compliance with the principles in the Combined Code.
Measures will be implemented in 2004 to come into line with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the New Code, which applies to reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
This will apply to the company for the financial year commencing 1 March 2004.
This report sets out how the board has complied with the Combined Code 1998.
It also aims to provide, the additional level of disclosure required by the New Code and an explanation regarding those principles under the New Code with which the company has not yet complied.
Board composition The board currently comprises eight members of whom six are non executive.
There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, Sir David Alliance CBE, who is responsible for the effective operation of the board and the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is responsible for the groups operational performance.
The six non executive directors comprise the Chairman, Sir David Alliance CBE, the Deputy Chairman, Jim Martin, Nigel Alliance OBE, all of whom are regarded by the board as not being independent under the provisions of the Combined Code, and Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath, and John McGuire all of whom are considered by the board to be independent.
The senior independent non executive director is Ivan Fallon.
Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in October 1994.
Notwithstanding his length of service, the board regards Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his broad-based commercial experience, coupled with his extensive business specific knowledge gained during his nine years as a non executive director, are extremely beneficial to the board and that his ongoing directorship provides the board with a very valuable resource.
The board did not have a majority of independent non executive directors during the year.
The company is taking steps to address this with the first step being the appointment of a new independent non executive director, John McGuire, on 23 March 2004.
However, it is considered that the composition of the board during the year had the balance of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
All directors joining the board are required to submit themselves for election at the next following annual general meeting.
They are subject to re-election every third year thereafter.
All non executive directors have written letters of appointment.
These letters of appointment stipulate three-year renewable terms of office, and are subject to early termination provisions, for example allowing earlier termination without compensation in the event a director is not re-elected upon retirement by rotation in accordance with the articles.
In line with the New Code any non executive directors who have served for nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
As such, Sir David Alliance CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Board operation An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
The members of the board are shown on page 16 of this report.
The board met eight times during the year.
Director attendance was 100% by all members of the board, save for Jim Martin and Lord Stone of Blackheath who each missed one board meeting.
The board is collectively responsible for providing leadership and promoting the success of the group.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes decisions on all major strategy decisions, approval of financial statements, capital and operating expenditure and board membership and committees.
Currently, one of its meetings in each year is entirely devoted to the development of corporate strategy.
The board delegates the day-to-day management of the group to the J D Williams & Company Limited operational board.
Detailed briefing papers including management accounts are circulated to each director not less than seven days prior to each board meeting.
Procedures are in place to enable all directors to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their fiduciary duties and obligations and all board members have access to the company secretary.
The board does not currently undertake a formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees but is committed to putting in place and conducting such a process in the forthcoming year.
Committee structure The board has delegated specific authorities to a number of sub committees to deal with specific aspects of management and control of the group.
All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection on request.
The minutes of the meetings of these committees are circulated to all board directors.
The following committees of the board have been established: Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee The audit and remuneration committees consist wholly of independent non executive directors.
NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 22 N Brown Group plc 22 Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement Audit committee The audit committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is John McGuire who was appointed on 23 March 2004.
The other members are Ivan Fallon and Lord Stone of Blackheath.
All members of the audit committee are regarded as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee met twice during the year and is scheduled to meet three times in the forthcoming year.
The committee was chaired by Robert Youngjohns until 2 July 2003 when he resigned from the board.
Ivan Fallon deputised as chairman whilst the company was looking to appoint another non executive director to take over the chairmanship of the committee.
Consequently, for part of the year whilst the company was seeking to appoint another non executive director, the committee consisted of only two independent non executive directors.
There was 100% attendance by members of the audit committee.
The audit committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process both internal and external and its effectiveness.
The committee reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditors and considers the annual and interim financial statements before submission to the board.
The committee also reviews the system of internal control and reports its findings twice yearly to the board.
The committee holds an away day each year, which is a meeting to which certain executives of the company are invited, but otherwise the meeting is free from executive director or board attendance, including that of the chairman.
This meeting was not held during 2003, as it was considered more appropriate to wait until a full-time chairman of the committee had been appointed.
The 2003 meeting is to be rescheduled shortly and the away day for the forthcoming year is scheduled for November 2004.
The committee meets with the external auditors, in the absence of the executive directors, at least two times a year.
As stated above, part of the role of the audit committee is to review the independence of the companys auditors.
As noted in the remuneration report, the companys external auditors, Deloitte and Touche LLP have provided non-audit services to the company in the form of remuneration advice.
Other services such as tax advice and due diligence work have also been provided by them.
The audit committee is aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could give rise to a potential conflict of interests.
To address this concern raised by the audit committee, the remuneration committee will seek advice on executive remuneration issues, where appropriate, from independent advisors who do not provide the company with other services further details are set out in the remuneration report on page 24.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
The other members are Lord Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire who was appointed on 23 March 2004.
The remuneration committee met three times this year.
Robert Youngjohns sat on the committee during the year until 2 July 2003 when he resigned from the board.
This meant that for part of the year whilst the company was seeking to appoint another non executive director the committee consisted of two independent non executive directors.
There was 100% attendance by the members of the remuneration committee.
The purpose of this committee is to review and formulate the companys remuneration policy and consider how the company is applying the principles of the Combined Code in respect of directors remuneration.
Further details are set out in the remuneration report on pages 24 to 32 which will be put to an advisory vote by the members at the companys annual general meeting.
Nominations committee The nominations committee met three times this year.
There was 100% attendance by the members of the nominations committee.
The nominations committee is chaired by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other members are Sir David Alliance CBE, Jim Martin, Ivan Fallon and John McGuire who was appointed on 23 March 2004.
The formal terms of reference for this committee require it to make recommendations to the board for appointments of directors and other senior executive staff.
Where appropriate, the chief executive and company secretary attend nominations committee meetings.
Appointments to the board are made on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required.
Where appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
During the year the committee used the recruitment consultant services of Spencer Stuart when appointing John McGuire as a non executive director and also when appointing Dean Moore as Finance director.
The recruitment consultant services of Houston Consulting were used when appointing Mike Bullas as an executive director.
The company secretary is responsible for the induction of new directors.
New directors are provided with a comprehensive pack of information including terms of reference, information regarding the business and guidance on their roles as directors and meetings site visits with key contacts are arranged as appropriate.
The board intends to review the induction process during the forthcoming year and ensure that it is fully in line with the requirements of the New Code.
Internal control The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control, to give them reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
There are, of course, inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 23 N Brown Group plc 23 Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement The board continues to operate a formal risk management process throughout the group.
A cyclical programme of assessments of operational, financial and other business risks has been implemented at each principal operating subsidiary of the group each cycle comprising at least two reviews annually, which takes into account the internal controls that exist to mitigate the impact of those risks.
Any significant residual risks are then evaluated and action plans to further reduce their impact are initiated and monitored where necessary.
Nine such cycles have so far been carried out.
A risk management committee, which met three times last year, oversees the above process, reports progress to the audit committee and the committee thereafter report to the board and draws any appropriate matters to its attention.
This committee, together with the audit committee, is also responsible for ensuring that the principles of risk management and effective internal control are fully embedded within the organisation, a process which has continued to operate during the year.
The board of directors through the audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review.
As well as receiving regular reports from the risk management committee described above, the board through the audit committee discusses with the external auditors the results of their work and any resulting internal control issues, and also reviews the work carried out by the internal audit department, including monitoring the implementation of actions arising from previous audits.
The internal audit function is independent of management and the head of the function has direct access to the chief executive and the chairman of the audit committee.
Internal audit plans are discussed and agreed annually between the head of internal audit and the audit committee.
Appropriate internal financial controls are operated throughout the group, some of which have already been referred to in this statement.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a comprehensive financial reporting system which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
Relations with investors The company believes in the importance of good communications with shareholders, both institutional and individual investors.
Institutional investors, fund managers and analysts are kept informed of the companys overall strategy through regular meetings and roadshows.
All non executive directors are kept informed of shareholders views through detailed feedback at board meetings.
In the forthcoming year it is intended that the senior independent director takes steps to meet and fully understand the views of major shareholders.
We aim to ensure that all shareholders have full access to information we disclose and that they have opportunities to meet with management through one-to-one meetings or at events such as the AGM.
As well as being provided with a copy of our Annual Report and results announcements, our website provides shareholders with extensive information about the company.
Compliance with the Code The Group has complied with the provisions of the code of best practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 1998 throughout the financial year, with the following exceptions: Code Provision A.
Directors A3.2 The majority of non executive directors should be independent of management - the company is seeking to address this through the appointment of new independent non executive directors.
B. Remuneration B1.6 During the year the service contract of the chief executive provided that his service contract might be terminated on two years notice.
Discussions are continuing with Mr White concerning the reduction of his notice period to 12 months.
D. Accountability and Audit D3.1 The board should establish an audit committee of at least three non-executive directors - from 2 July 2003 until the end of the year the audit committee was reduced to two independent non executive directors due to the chairman of the audit committee retiring from the board on 2nd July 2003.
The process of appointing a replacement non executive director took longer than the board anticipated but it has appointed John McGuire as the new chairman of the audit committee.
Details of directors contract terms are shown in the remuneration report on page 28.
