CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD AND ITS PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES Remuneration Committee Four meetings were held during 2004.
Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
Attendance at meetings by individual directors during 2004 is shown Barry Gibson Chairman 4 next to the Directors name.
All of the Committees are authorised to Sue Lyons 4 obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the Tim Stevenson 4 attendance of external advisers at their meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Group in order to The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the perform its duties.
The full terms of reference of the Committees are remuneration of the Executive Directors including the Chief available on the Companys website at Executive, the divisional Chief Executives, the Chairman of the www.
Company and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual The Board of Directors remuneration package of each Executive Director including, where Twelve meetings were held during 2004. appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share incentive plans.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the Michael Davies Chairman to 5 May 2004 6 terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the David Ross Chairman from 5 May 2004 12 Committee.
The Committee will ensure that contractual terms on Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director 3 termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Barry Gibson Non Executive Director 11 Company, that failure is not rewarded and the duty to mitigate loss is, Sue Lyons Non Executive Director 12 where appropriate, fully recognised.
Tim Score Non Executive Director 0 Tim Stevenson Senior Independent Director 12 Nomination Committee Phil White Chief Executive 12 Four meetings were held during 2004.
Larry Durham Chief Executive Officer 2 Ray OToole Chief Operating Officer 12 Michael Davies resigned 5 May 2004 2 Adam Walker Finance Director 12 David Ross Chairman appointed to committee 23 June 2004 2 Sir Andrew Foster appointed to committee 15 December 2004 1 Company Secretary:Tony McDonald also acts as Secretary to the Sue Lyons 4 Chairman to 23 June 2004 Board Committees Tim Stevenson resigned from committee 15 December 2004 4 Sir Andrew Foster and Tim Score were appointed to the Board on 1 August 2004 The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the and 21 February 2005 respectively.
approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when Larry Durham resigned on 25 February 2004. they arise.
It will give full consideration to succession planning, and keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards executive and non executive.
The Committee will review annually the attention which includes the review and approval of Group strategy time required from a Non Executive Director and use performance and policies, major business acquisitions or disposals, major capital evaluation to assess whether the Non Executive is spending enough projects, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other time to fulfil their duties.
than in the normal course of business.
Safety Committee Audit Committee Four meetings were held during 2004.
Four meetings were held during 2004.
Sue Lyons Chairman 4 Tim Stevenson Chairman 4 Michael Davies resigned 5 May 2004 1 Sir Andrew Foster appointed to Committee 1 August 2004 1 Sir Andrew Foster appointed to committee 1 August 2004 1 Barry Gibson 4 Barry Gibson 3 David Ross resigned from Committee 5 May 2004 1 David Ross 4 Tim Score appointed to committee 21 February 2005 0 Tim Score appointed to committee 21 February 2005 0 Tim Stevenson 4 The Committee oversees the process for selecting the external auditor, assesses the continuing independence of the external auditor The Committee reviews the Groups safety practices, procedures and recommends approval of the audit fee to the Board.
It will ensure and safety record and has widened its remit to include that provision of non audit services does not impair the external environmental matters.
It will discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and any issues or concerns arising from the audit process.
The Committee reviews the internal audit programme, considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews managements financial reporting and risk management.
The Committee reviews the half-year and annual financial statements and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: and ethical practices within all its operations.
The Board has endorsed the development and implementation of management strategy: a set of principles which establish the framework for how its businesses the day to day management of the Group: operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest manner.
managing the executive management team: and fostering relationships with key stakeholders.
The Financial Reporting Council approved a revised Combined Code on corporate governance effective for financial reporting periods Tim Stevenson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board starting on or after 1 November 2003.
The Company has adopted considers all the Non Executive Directors to be independent.
The the revised Combined Code and continues to review its corporate Non Executives bring a variety of different experiences and governance practices on an ongoing basis.
considerable knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST PRACTICE bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Short The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with Section 1 of biographies of the Directors are to be found on page 33. the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
In the The Board meets at least eight times during the year.
During 2004 the opinion of the Directors the Group has complied with the Code Board held an off-site strategy meeting and visited businesses in the throughout the year apart from: United States.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, the main terms of which are shown on page 37 the annual evaluation of the board, its committees and individual together with the attendance record of the Directors.
During the year directors: the Chairman met with the Non Executives without the Executive the appraisal of the Chairmans performance by the Non Directors present to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management Following the appointment of a new Chairman during the year the of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and Board determined that it was appropriate to postpone the above budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management two items until 2005 and the process for this is now underway.
meetings, involving the Executive Directors and senior management from the divisions are held weekly to discuss current issues.
From 5 May 2004, when David Ross resigned from the Audit Committee, the Audit Committee did not have a member with The Company purchases liability insurance to cover the Directors and recent and relevant financial experience until the appointment of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Tim Score to the Committee in February 2005.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE The Board has established a number of committees with defined The Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive terms of reference and receives reports of their proceedings.
The principal committees are the Remuneration Committee, the The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial Committee.
The members of each committee, attendance and main leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is duties are shown on page 37. responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD are in place to achieve its goals.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments The Board consists of the Chairman, three Executive and five Non and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee will Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are prepare a description of the role and requirements for any particular held separately and the division of responsibilities between the appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
Chairman and Chief Executive is shown below.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: office during normal business hours and at the Annual General chairing and managing the business of the Board: Meeting of the Company.
The Non Executive Directors disclose to together with the Chief Executive, leading the Board in the Board their other significant commitments.
developing the strategy of the business and ensuring this is effectively implemented by the executive management team: External advisers are appointed when recruiting Board members: they ensuring that there is effective dialogue with investors concerning use as a basis for their search a description of the role and capabilities mutual understanding of objectives: required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility Committee.
for the composition and replenishment of the Board: and periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and performance.
38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE WORK OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The induction process includes: Before making a recommendation for an appointment to the Board a series of meetings with Directors and senior management the Nomination Committee will: tailored to the individuals needs, including site visits and meetings with divisional Chief Executives: prepare a job specification and a description of the capabilities provision of key information on Group policies and procedures: required for a particular post: an appropriate Directors training course: consider the current composition of the Board and mix of skills an opportunity, if requested by the individual or shareholders, for and experience: and the Director to meet with major shareholders fund managers.
where appropriate, and in particular where a vacancy for a Non Executive Director arises, use an external search consultancy PERFORMANCE EVALUATION and or open advertising.
Following the appointment of a new Chairman during the year and the During the year the appointment of the new Chairman was finalised.
resulting changes to the committee and Board composition, the annual The Committee appointed an external consultancy to conduct a performance evaluations of the Board, individual Non Executive search and a short list of three external and two internal candidates Directors and committees, other than the audit committee, were were considered for the post.
Following a review of the candidates postponed.
A process for performance evaluation has been agreed and and consultation with the Companys major shareholders, David Ross will take place early in 2005.
The performance of the Executive was put forward to the Board for approval and he became Chairman Directors is evaluated as part of their annual remuneration review.
RE-ELECTION Two new Non Executive Directors have also recently been appointed In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all to the Board.
The Committee concluded that there was a need for Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Non Executive Directors with a knowledge of the Regulatory Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at environment in which the Groups businesses operate and with least once every three years.
Non Executive Directors are appointed recent relevant financial experience.
External consultants were used for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non Executive Directors will and following a review of possible candidates Sir Andrew Foster and only be put forward for re-election if, following performance Tim Score were appointed to the Board in August 2004 and evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues February 2005 respectively.
to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
REMUNERATION AND SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The report on Directors remuneration, including details of Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial remuneration policy and service contracts, is set out on pages 42 to 48. information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management and advisers give presentations to the ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Board on significant matters during the year.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is Auditors are set out on pages 41 and 49. responsible for ensuring the Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Internal Control Board on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice The Boards responsibilities and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment or The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full whole.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational independent professional advice where considered necessary.
and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to assets of the Group, and are described below.
A formal induction process is in place for new Directors the aims of which are to: Key elements of the control framework Strategic and financial planning an annual budgeting and strategic build an understanding of the nature of the Company, its business planning process has been established whereby each division and and the markets in which it operates: constituent operating companies assesses its competitive position and establish a link with the Groups employees: goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy is translated build an understanding of the Groups main relationships including into a financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance management the performance of each division and Review of internal control effectiveness operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal The system of internal control and risk management, described monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the Executive above, has been in place for the year under review and up to the Directors at monthly divisional board meetings.
date of approval of this Annual Report.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Annual Fitness Check Process a self assessment review takes place Groups business objectives, and can therefore provide only at each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement sheet and to challenge the effective operation of key financial and or loss.
The effectiveness of this system has been regularly reviewed information systems controls within each material accounting cycle.
The internal control procedures in place accord with This process is led by divisional finance directors and is closely the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the monitored by group finance and validated by the internal audit Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Audit Committee and Auditors Capital investment a clear process is in place for the approval of The members of the Audit Committee, attendance and main duties capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits are shown on page 37. of the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital expenditure requires Board approval.
THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives Health and Safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks papers for consideration in advance of the meeting.
The papers have been established in all our businesses and the performance of reflect the agenda prepared by the Secretary in conjunction with the operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
There are a number of standing items considered during the year such as consideration of the internal and Risk management reporting process each division and operating external audit reports, review of the preliminary and interim company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and announcements, and review of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the results are cascaded through management levels and the Audit Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is Other items that were considered and discussed during the year reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of included the performance review of the external auditor, update on the key risks reported and presented to the Board on a twice yearly the conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards, plans to basis, unless exceptional issues arise.
The review covers strategic, evaluate the effectiveness of internal audit, key accounting issues and financial, compliance and risk management controls.
These procedures the external auditors fees.
are mandated and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their business objectives.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Internal audit the internal control system is independently Directors and by internal and external auditors.
Full minutes are kept monitored and supported by an outsourced internal audit function.
by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by The internal audit function reports to management and the Audit the Committee.
Outside of the meeting process the Committee Committee on the Groups financial and operational controls, and Chairman has regular contact with the Executive Directors, other reviews the extent to which its recommendations have been committee members and the auditors on a variety of topics.
Board level reporting on internal control during the year the Audit The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the Committee has reviewed regular reports from the internal audit independence of the external auditors.
As part of their determination department, the external auditors and executive management on the Committee considers a report by the external auditors on the matters relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk firms independence which is required in order to carry out their management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an professional duties and responsibilities as auditors.
The majority of independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting non audit work undertaken by the external auditors during the year affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular relates to three items.
These were tax advisory services, advice on the reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and Group are being managed.
forensic accounting advice on the Hatfield insurance claim.
All of these items the Committee believes would be impractical and costly to provide through another party.
Any significant non audit work proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, apart from tax advisory services, must be approved by the Committee in advance.
The Committee takes into account factors such as the nature of the work, cost and service levels when considering allocating non audit work to the external auditor.
40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Following a review by the Board of whistle blowing arrangements a STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES new Group policy was issued during the year to ensure a consistent The Annual Report contains the accounts and Directors remuneration report which are required by company law.
The approach across the Group.
Directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: The Company maintains regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and fund managers through a variety of meetings and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them presentations throughout the year.
Presentations are given by the consistently: Executive Directors following the full year and half year results to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: institutional investors, analysts and brokers which the Non Executive and Directors may attend.
In addition, the Companys brokers provide confidential feedback to the Company on the views of the major state whether applicable accounting standards have been institutions following the interim and final results.
During 2004 the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and biennial independent review was undertaken which asked for explained in the accounts.
feedback on financial performance and management from the Companys major investors.
The Directors confirm that these accounts comply with the above requirements.
During the year written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders and all shareholders receive copies of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report.
The Company has which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial introduced an electronic communications facility to enable position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts shareholders to receive documentation such as the Annual Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for and Accounts electronically and also to cast their votes by proxy safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable electronically.
The Company has also introduced an electronic proxy steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other appointment service for CREST members.
com, houses wide ranging information about the Group, including the final and interim announcements, Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary company websites.
The site was upgraded in February 2004 to meet the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act.
The Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and Directors on a variety of topics, and information is provided at the meeting on different aspects of the Groups activities.
All of the Companys directors are present at the meeting.
Proxy votes, including the number of abstentions, are displayed on the resolutions following the result on a display of hands.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
