Corporate Governance The non-executive Directors, apart from the Chairman, who was formerly Corporate Governance an executive Director of the Company, are considered to be independent UK listed companies are required by the Financial Services Authority the both in the sense outlined in the 1998 Code and in terms of the criteria laid designated UK Listing Authority to include a statement in their annual down by the National Association of Pension Funds for judging the accounts on compliance with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance independence of non-executive Directors.
Mr Williams, as Deputy and Code of Best Practice set out in the Combined Code published in 1998 Chairman, is considered to be the senior such independent Director.
In July 2003 a revised Combined Code the New Code The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The was published, incorporating recommendations made in the Higgs Report division of their responsibilities has been set out in writing, approved by on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and in the Financial the Board and is available on the Companys website.
Reporting Councils new guidance for audit committees.
The New Code will apply to the Company for the financial year ending 30 April 2005.
The Board meets regularly, normally monthly, to review trading results and has responsibility for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual During the year the Board established a corporate governance subBusiness Plan, financial reporting to and relationships with shareholders, committee, consisting of the Deputy Chairman, the Finance Director dividend policy, internal financial and other controls, financing and and the Company Secretary, to review the Companys compliance with treasury policy, insurance policy, major capital expenditure, acquisitions best practice and to make recommendations as to any changes that may and disposals, Board structure, remuneration policy, corporate governance be necessary to achieve compliance with the New Code.
accepted the Committees recommendations and now considers that the Company is already substantially compliant with the New Code.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed management The report which follows relates to compliance with the 1998 Code.
accounts are prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month The provisions of the 1998 Code applicable to listed companies are divided and, in advance of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all into four parts, as set out below: items to be discussed is circulated.
1 Directors Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, detailed below: currently comprising four executive and four non-executive Directors, details of whom are set out on page 8.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION AB AB AB AB F M Waring 13 13 5 9 1 1 S J Smith 13 13 5 6 1 J Astrand 13 13 5 5 9 9 1 1 P J Moorhouse 13 12 4 4 G T Murray 13 12 5 1 A T Noble 13 10 4 P Rogerson 6 5 2 1 2 2 1 1 R Williams 13 13 5 5 9 9 1 1 A Maximum number of meetings the Director was entitled to attend.
B Number of meetings attended 16 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 All Directors were present at the Annual General Meeting held in September appointments by selecting and proposing to the Board suitable candidates 2003, except for Mr Rogerson who was not appointed until November 2003. of appropriate calibre.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services of professional external head-hunters to help in the search for Mr Rogerson was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees in candidates.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are January 2004. available on the Companys website.
Attendance by executive Directors at meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were by invitation.
2 Directors remuneration The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of The external auditors attended three Audit Committee meetings.
The internal each Director are given in the Report on Remuneration on pages 12 to 15. audit manager attended two Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, the non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, but without 3 Relations with shareholders executive Directors present, met informally on six occasions during the year.
Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly fulfil information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
time of announcing the Companys interim and full year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Companys existing Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, one third or the number nearest to but The Chief Executive has written to the Companys 40 largest institutional not exceeding one third of the Directors shall retire from office.
Those to shareholders to advise that, in line with the provisions of the New Code, the retire in each year are those who have been longest in office since their Senior Independent Director and other non-executives may attend these appointment or re-appointment.
Any Director appointed by the Board briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
during the year is obliged to seek re-election at the next following Annual All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for discussion General Meeting and is not included when determining the one third to at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than the recommended retire by rotation.
It is therefore possible for a Director to serve four years minimum 20 working days notice is given.
In recent years the Company before seeking re-appointment by shareholders.
The Company is proposing has adopted the practice of issuing a brief statement at the Annual General to adopt new Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting to be Meeting, which is simultaneously released to the London Stock Exchange, held in September 2004 see Report of the Directors on page 11.
The Article on current trading conditions.
In addition, the Company issues brief governing the re-election of Directors will be amended to provide that all pre-close trading statements two months prior to the announcement of Directors be subject to re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
both our interim and full year results.
No current Director has served more than three years without being In compliance with the requirement in the 1998 Code, the Company has re-elected by shareholders.
adopted the practice at general meetings of the Company of advising In anticipation of the requirements of the New Code, the Board has shareholders of the numbers of proxy votes lodged on each resolution, established a Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Mr Williams, after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
All the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive are members.
Its main function is to lead the process for Board Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17 Corporate Governance INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION 4 Accountability and audit The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included in the to the Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a Chairmans Statement on page 2. comparison against their business plan and against the previous year, with regular review by management of variances from targeted INTERNAL CONTROL performance levels.
A business plan is prepared by management and Provision D2.1 of the 1998 Code requires the Directors to conduct an approved by the Board annually.
Each operating unit prepares a three year annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal business plan with performance reported against key performance controls.
The Turnbull Report, published by the ICAEW in September 1999, indicators on a monthly basis together with comparisons to plan and prior provides relevant guidance for directors on compliance with the internal year.
These are reviewed regularly by management.
Forecasts are updated control provisions of the 1998 Code.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records CONTROL PROCEDURES are maintained and that the financial information used within the business The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule of and for publication is reliable.
Although no system of internal controls can matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Measures taken include assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and of internal controls, which was in place throughout the period covered by ad hoc checks.
the financial statements, are described below: MONITORING CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit Committee, individual responsibilities of line and financial management for the receives reports on the system of control from the external auditors and maintenance of strong internal controls and the production of accurate from management.
An independent internal audit function reports and timely financial management information are identified and can be bi-annually to the Audit Committee primarily on the key areas of risk monitored.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with within the business.
the procedures set out in written manuals.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the highest system of internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance business and ethical standards and to promote a culture of honesty and matters and risk management, for the period covered by these financial integrity amongst all staff, the Board has established a confidential statements in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull telephone service, operated by an independent external organisation, Report.
which may be used by all staff to report any issues of concern relating AUDIT to dishonesty or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are The Audit Committee is currently comprised of the three independent investigated by senior management.
Mr Rogerson was appointed a member of the IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS Committee in January 2004 and he took over as Chairman of the The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined Committee following the approval of these Report and Accounts by the responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the Group and Board on 5 July 2004.
The Committee has written terms of reference for developing systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of setting out its duties which are available on the Companys website.
key risks is reviewed by the Board and the Groups management at their These include matters relating to the appointment and fees of the external monthly meetings.
auditors and review of the annual and interim statements, of the Groups internal controls and of the nature, scope and results of the internal audit The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for programme.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
18 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The Committee has access to the resources and facilities it requires to enable it to carry out its duties.
These include external professional advice and direct access to the Company Secretary and other relevant staff.
Both the external auditors and the internal audit manager have direct access to members of the Committee and can meet with the Committee without the Companys management being present.
In addition to the meetings referred to in the table above, the members of the Committee, together with the Chairman of the Board, had informal meetings with the external auditors and, separately, with the internal audit manager, both with no other Directors present.
The Committee also monitors the independence and objectivity of the external auditors in carrying out their statutory audit work on behalf of shareholders and providing other fee-paying services to the Company.
The Boards policy on non-audit work is: Tax advisory and other audit-related work including in particular Corporation Tax.
This is work that, in their capacity as auditors, they are best placed to carry out and will generally be asked to do so.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, they will be asked for a fee quote.
Non-audit related and general consultancy work.
This type of work will either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to the consultants who are felt to be best able to provide the expertise and working relationship required.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of consultants to provide external advice and support to the internal audit department, the auditors will not be invited to compete for the work.
Fees paid and payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of the year under review are as follows: 000 Statutory audit work and interim review 178 Tax 82 Other 73 Total 333 COMPLIANCE The Board considers that the Company was in compliance with the provisions of the 1998 Code applicable to listed companies throughout the financial year, with the exception of the requirement to appoint three non-executive Directors to the Audit Committee see under Audit above.
The Company has been in compliance since Mr Rogersons appointment in January 2004.
Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19 Health and Safety The Board regards the monitoring and control of health and safety and - all hazardous waste principally engine oils, batteries, tyres and other environmental issues as a key part of its risk management programme.
vehicle consumables is collected and disposed of by licensed contractors: The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person ultimately responsible to the Board for all health, safety and environmental matters - prior to acquiring new sites, environmental risk assessments, to ISO throughout the Group.
Responsibility for implementing the Groups policy 9000 standard, are carried out by external consultants: is devolved to regional and depot management.
- we have arranged with the Institute of Advanced Motorists a rolling The Group has adopted the principles set out in the management model programme of driver assessment and training for all employees who HSG 65 Successful Health and Safety Management.
have a company vehicle or who are otherwise required to drive as part of their duties.
A comprehensive health and safety procedures manual and a vehicle user handbook provide guidance and advice in implementing the Groups During the year under review, no major incidents classed as those health and safety policy.
Relevant training is provided to all employees.
resulting in death, serious injury or significant pollution occurred at any of our locations.
Technical advice and support is provided by a qualified health and safety officer, part of whose responsibility is to visit every Group location at least No health and safety enforcement notices were served on any company in once a year to carry out a health and safety audit.
Where appropriate, the Group and there were no convictions for health and safety offences outside professional advice and services are used: during the year.
There were no pending prosecutions outstanding at the year end.
- in compliance with the Electricity at Work Regulations, a rolling programme of electrical inspections and surveys, covering all Group locations, is carried out by qualified electrical contractors: - a programme of surveys has been put in place to meet the requirements of the new Asbestos Regulations, which came into force in 2004, using licensed contractors: 20 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
