CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13 Introduction In July 2003, revisions to the Combined Code were published to consolidate guidance issued by Higgs and Smith.
The new code will take effect for Northgate Information Solutions 2004 2005 financial year, although Northgate has already identified the main issues which need to be addressed and has taken appropriate steps towards compliance where required.
Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code Non-Executive Directors are required, under their terms of employment, to give six months notice of their intent to step down from the Board: this allows Northgate to plan for orderly succession.
At the end of the AGM on 25 September 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Northgate, Dr. Duncan Hine, stepped down as a replacement Non-Executive had been identified, accepted by the Nomination Committee and the Board and had been offered the post.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, the replacement Non-Executive was unable to join the Northgate Board and therefore excluding the Chairman, the Audit Committee meeting and Board meeting that followed the AGM comprised of only one independent Non-Executive Director rendering Northgate temporarily non-compliant with the Combined Code.
Dr. Hine therefore agreed to re-join the Board as a Non-Executive Director until a replacement was appointed.
It is of the utmost importance to Northgate that Non-Executive Directors have the necessary background and skills to fulfil the requirements of such a position and Sir Stephen Lander was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2004 when Dr. Hine stepped down.
Northgate is committed to high standards of corporate governance and for the remainder of the year has applied the Combined Code principles by retaining 100% Non-Executive membership of the principal Corporate Governance Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
This Corporate Governance statement is intended to highlight the most important ways in which the principles have been applied.
The Board of Directors As at 30 April 2004, the Board comprised five Directors, three of whom were Non-Executive, totally independent, have no day-to-day management responsibilities within the Group and are free from any conflicts of interest.
Since the year end, another four Directors have been appointed, two of whom are Non-Executive.
The Board leads and maintains effective control over Northgates activities.
The Directors biographies appear on page 12 and these demonstrate that the Board has within it the necessary range of backgrounds, qualities and experience to lead the Company.
Northgate has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive to differentiate the running of the Board from the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys businesses.
In addition to the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, the Board consists of three other Executive Directors and four other Non-Executive Directors.
New Board appointments are selected through the Groups Nomination Committee and approved by the Board.
On appointment, new Board members are familiarised with the business and, on an ongoing basis, managers of the business present to the Board to explain the initiatives they are undertaking or planning and certain key internal projects report to sub-committees of the Board.
In addition, suitable training is provided to new Board members as required.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at general meetings at least every three years.
Attendance is expected at all Board meetings by all Directors except in special circumstances.
The Board is supplied with appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Members of the Board meet at least twelve times a year, with twelve formal Board meetings.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including strategy, financial policy and major acquisitions and disposals.
There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors as a group are of a sufficient calibre and number to bring strength of independence to the Board and has nominated J R Fryer as the most senior independent Director other than the Chairman.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has, by means of the Audit Committee, established a procedure for any Director, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary ensures that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
