CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance Pendragon PLC is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in line with the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code adopted by the FSA as it applies to the financial year which is the subject of this report.
Other than as set out below, the company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year and a summary of the company's application of the principles of the Combined Code appears below.
Board of directors The Board of directors, comprising four executive and five non-executive directors, meets regularly throughout the year.
Brief biographical details of each of the directors appear on page 13.
The senior independent director is Mr W W Rhodes who is also the chairman of the remuneration committee.
The company has not identified any individual as deputy chairman.
In the absence of the Chairman, meetings are chaired by the senior independent director.
In respect of each non-executive, the Board has to consider whether he has any relationships or whether there exist any circumstances which might appear to affect his exercising independent judgement.
The Board regards each of Mr W W Rhodes, Mr N G Hannah, Mr J H Holt and Mr M T Davies as independent.
The appointment of Mr M T Davies as an additional non-executive means that there is now more independent non-executives than executives on the Board.
The only matter relevant for consideration in relation to Mr Rhodes is the duration of his appointment as a director, which commenced in 1989.
The Board considers that notwithstanding his length of service as a non-executive director, Mr Rhodes remains independent in character and judgement and continues to be committed to the role he performs for the company.
Mr Hannah has served as a non-executive director for over nine years.
In recent years he has received a retainer for property related advice to group companies.
The retainer payment to Mr Hannah is negotiated on arms length terms, is subject to annual review and reflects the time spent by Mr Hannah over and above his Board and committee duties.
He is non-executive chairman of one of the companys commercial property advisors, Innes England Limited.
Property advisers to the company are selected by means of a rigorous tendering process and the allocation of work among the respective advisers is regularly reviewed.
This transparent and objective process ensures that at all times the companys dealings with Innes England Limited are at arms length.
Details of the additional services provided to group companies by Mr Hannah and of his association with Innes England Limited appear on page 27 and the amounts of payments are not regarded by either party as material.
This relationship and the retainer arrangement are not regarded by the Board as affecting Mr Hannahs independence.
For these reasons the Board considers that he remains independent in character and judgement and continues to be committed to the role he performs for the company.
Other than as set out above, there are no relationships or circumstances in relation to any director which are regarded by the company as having the potential to affect his exercising independent judgement.
Pendragon is treated as a smaller company for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board meets at least seven times during a year and has adopted a structure for its meetings which is reflected in a standing agenda.
Between meetings, monthly information packs are circulated to directors.
The chairman holds meetings with the nonexecutive directors without the executives present when he deems it appropriate.
Three of the five non-executives including the chairman have served in excess of nine years.
Their terms of appointment are for a fixed two-year period, renewable on expiry if the company so desires.
The Board believes that shareholders interests are well served by the continuity and experience brought by board members who have served for a number of years.
A prescribed maximum term of office for non-executive directors inevitably produces unwelcome disruption and the loss of a valuable knowledge base.
Those non-executive directors other than the chairman who have served more than nine years will seek re-election annually.
At least one third of the Board is required to retire from office by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
All directors will have submitted themselves for re-election at least every three years.
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and where applicable of its committees is set out in the table below.
Board and Committee Attendance Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Sir Nigel Rudd 10 10 n a 2 2 n a W W Rhodes 10 10 3 3 2 2 2 2 N G Hannah 9 10 2 3 2 2 1 2 J H Holt 10 10 3 3 2 2 2 2 M T Davies 3 3 n a n a n a T G Finn 10 10 n a n a n a M S Casha 9 10 n a n a n a D R Forsyth 10 10 n a n a n a H C Sykes 10 10 n a n a n a Attendance is displayed showing the number of meetings attended out of the total eg 9 10 means nine of the ten Board meetings were attended.
Mr M T Davies was appointed to the Board in October 2004 and was eligible to attend the three Board meetings held during the last quarter of 2004.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There is a clear separation of the functions of chairman and chief executive recorded in a written statement adopted by the Board.
This is available for shareholders inspection at the Annual General Meeting and at any time upon request.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters.
It reviews the strategic direction of individual trading businesses, their annual budgets and their progress towards achievement of those budgets.
All matters of an operational nature and within the executive directors capital expenditure authority are dealt with by the executive directors.
The Board reviews annually the composition of the Board and its committees and the respective contribution of each director.
As a result of such a review, an additional independent non-executive director has been appointed during the year.
The composition of the Board as a whole and the performance of the Board and its committees, together with the adequacy of the skill set represented by the directors in their respective fields of expertise are considered by the Board at least annually.
The latest of these reviews, in September 2004, concluded that the Board and its committees were operating effectively and that this was facilitated particularly by the clear demarcation of the responsibilities of the individual directors, and between the executive and the full Board and its committees.
The Board also concluded that the skills and experience represented are appropriate to the companys business activities and provide adequate oversight of the assessment and management of risk.
Executive directors performance is individually evaluated by the non-executives.
This assessment features two aspects of performance: the directors individual contribution to the companys corporate goals: and the achievement of the annually agreed individual objectives appropriate to his or her role.
In reviewing the performance of executive directors other than the chief executive, the non-executives take into account the views of the chief executive.
The executive directors evaluate the performance of the non-executive directors annually.
Each non-executive directors performance in furthering the companys corporate objectives is assessed, together with his contribution in his areas of expertise, reflected in his committee work and participation in the Boards periodic strategy meetings and familiarisation visits.
Attendance at meetings is also considered.
The performance assessments take place shortly after the conclusion of the companys financial year.
The chairmans performance during the last year has been formally appraised by the nonexecutive directors.
This performance review considered the responsibilities of the role of chairman as set out in the Combined Code, including capability, commitment, effectiveness and shareholder communication.
The Board is evaluating processes for a more formal review of committees and directors performance, the current arrangements being of an informal nature.
Certain of the Board's duties are delegated to committees of the Board, whose responsibilities and composition are set out below.
Nominations Committee The committee is composed of the non-executive directors of the company, meets at least once a year and its chairman is Sir Nigel Rudd.
It has written terms of reference which include making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of directors.
The committee and the Board operate to a protocol for the selection and appointment of executive and non-executive directors, adopted in November 2003.
This includes a six stage process, from the identification of a vacancy to the making of a recommendation to the Board for an appointment.
Following the identification of the vacancy, the current skills profile of the Board is considered and a candidate skills profile produced, with the aim of strengthening and enhancing the skills, knowledge base and experience of the Board by the making of the appointment.
The need to advertise the vacancy or engage executive search advisers is considered at this point.
Interviews with short-listed candidates follow, conducted by an appropriately constituted panel of the directors, comprising a majority of non-executive directors.
All Board members are also given the opportunity to meet a recommended candidate before a nomination is put to the Board.
The protocol was followed in the nomination of Mr M T Davies, who joined as a non-executive director in October 2004.
Open advertising and the use of an executive search adviser was considered.
However, on this occasion, a short-list of candidates with appropriate skills and experience, including Mr Davies was readily available without employing such measures.
The committee recommended that such candidates would be considered first and that advertising or an executive search adviser would be employed only if a nominee was not selected from the first short list.
Mr Davies has received a formal induction and will be available to meet shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee The chairman of the committee is Mr W W Rhodes, the senior independent director.
The committee is composed of the non-executive directors except the chairman of the company and meets at least once a year.
It has written terms of reference.
The committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors on behalf of the Board in the context of the policy adopted by the Board.
The Report on Remuneration is considered by the Remuneration Committee, but adopted by the Board as a whole.
That Report is set out on pages 22 to 27.
Audit Committee The chairman of the committee is Mr J H Holt.
The committee is composed of the non-executive directors of the company except the chairman, whose biographical details appear on page 13.
The company considers each to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Their meetings are attended, by invitation, by the finance director Mr D R Forsyth and representatives of the company's internal and external auditors.
The committee's terms of reference include the following: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and to review significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, resignation, removal or re-appointment of the companys external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit department and its activities including receiving reports and to ensure adequate levels of staffing within that department: to ensure that the companys systems of internal financial control are adequate and functioning properly: to commission investigations into any control weaknesses, to consider the results of any such investigations and to make recommendations to the Board to act upon any identified weaknesses: to ensure that the companys approach to risk management and control is systematic and structured, that the companys systems are appropriate to the levels of risk to which the company is exposed, and to carry out monitoring of controls and risk management systems sufficient to satisfy itself that their implementation is effective: to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm: to review arrangements by which the companys employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The committees objective is to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action: to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
During the year the Audit Committee has reviewed the companys whistleblowing policy.
This is the statement of the arrangements the company has in place to enable employees to raise in confidence concerns about possible improprieties, whether financial or other.
The policy of awarding non-audit related work to the companys auditors, has been considered by the committee.
The company does not impose an automatic ban on its auditor undertaking non-audit work, and the companys auditor is permitted to perform audit related and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit Committee, it is appropriate for it to do so.
The companys objective is to ensure that non-audit work is carried out in a manner that affords full value for money, whilst obtaining a service that serves the best interests of the company.
Contracts for non-audit work are not therefore awarded to the companys auditor where there is a perceived conflict of interest.
Where appropriate the provision of non-audit services is formally market tested through a tender process.
During the year, the companys auditor provided non-audit services as corporate adviser and reporting accountants on the acquisition of CD Bramall PLC.
KPMG LLP was appointed to advise upon, administer and act as actuary to the Pendragon Pension Plan and the Stripestar Pension Scheme and to the Quicks Pension Scheme, established in February 2005.
A competitive tender process was adopted in arriving at KPMGs selection to act as pensions advisors.
Details of the amounts paid to the auditor and its related entities for non-audit services in the year are set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 36.
Information and advice The directors regularly receive financial and other information concerning the group's activities and performance.
Each director is entitled on request to receive information to enable him to make informed judgements and adequately discharge his duties and has access to the advice and services of the company secretary on all matters of Board procedure, corporate governance and in particular Combined Code compliance.
The company secretary also provides advice and support to each of the committees of the Board.
The directors terms of appointment also permit them, at the company's expense, to take independent professional advice in connection with their duties.
Although no formal training programme exists, all directors are encouraged to maintain an awareness of new developments in the areas of the group's principal activities and attend appropriate briefings throughout the year.
Where necessary, directors have access to professional training on matters relating to their Board or committee functions.
In line with common practice, the company maintains, at its expense, insurance cover in respect of the liability of its directors and officers to third parties.
The Board includes individuals from various backgrounds with many years' experience of senior positions in listed companies and professional life.
The directors are expected to bring to bear an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Shareholder relations During 2004, both private and institutional shareholders have been invited to tour the companys Loxley House facility and view the technological advances now incorporated into the companys business model for its car retail operations.
The Boards statement concerning the respective roles of chairman and chief executive also deals with the companys approach to shareholder communication.
The chief executive, Mr T G Finn, is responsible for implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
Among his duties is the conduct of communications with shareholders on the companys performance.
He must ensure that major shareholders have the opportunity for regular dialogue with the company on issues of concern to them, and, in particular that any changes in policy or strategy are effectively articulated to shareholders.
In the main, shareholder communication is based around meetings with shareholders at key points in the financial reporting year.
These are conducted by the chief executive and the finance director, rather than the non-executive chairman.
In this respect the companys approach is not compliant with the Combined Code.
The directors believe this to be the most effective way of communicating on matters such as strategic direction, financial performance, underlying market conditions and operational issues.
Issues raised by shareholders on these occasions are fed back to the Board, and, where appropriate, access to the chairman for further discussion is arranged.
The chairman also holds himself available at all times for contact with shareholders.
Unless specifically requested to participate in discussions or to provide information or explanations, the chairman will, however, refer enquiries he receives to the chief executive or, if the matter concerns his own remuneration or performance as a director, or any other matter with which it is inappropriate for him to deal, to the senior independent director.
The Board is always willing, where practicable, to enter into dialogue with shareholders based on mutual understandings of their respective objectives and being mindful of the company's obligations under the Listing Rules.
The respective chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are available to answer shareholders' questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Business at the Annual General Meeting The annual report and the financial statements of the company are despatched to shareholders, together with the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, giving the requisite period of notice.
At the Annual General Meeting, a separate resolution is being proposed for each substantive matter.
The business at the Annual General Meeting AGM may be summarised as follows: Resolutions 1 to 9 set out in the notice, deal with the ordinary business to be transacted at the AGM.
Resolution 2 Directors remuneration report The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires the company to seek shareholder approval at its AGM of the directors remuneration report for the year.
Voting on this resolution is advisory in nature, meaning that by voting for the resolution shareholders indicate their approval of the report.
However, should the resolution not be carried, the shareholders cannot by that means require the company or the Board to amend its policy on the directors remuneration.
Resolutions 4 to 8 Proposals to re-elect or reappoint directors Resolution 4 set out in the notice of AGM is for the appointment of Mr M T Davies as a director.
Mr Davies was appointed as nonexecutive director in October 2004, and therefore in accordance with the companys articles of association and the Combined Code, retires and offers himself for reappointment at the AGM, this being the first AGM following his appointment.
Brief biographical details of Mr Davies appear on page 13.
Resolutions 5 and 6 set out in the notice of the AGM are for the re-election as directors respectively of Mr D R Forsyth and Miss H C Sykes, each of whom retires by rotation in accordance with the companys articles of association and offers himself or herself respectively up for re-election.
Brief biographical details of Mr Forsyth and Miss Sykes appear on page 13.
Resolution 7 set out in the notice of AGM proposes the re-election of Mr W W Rhodes as a director.
Mr Rhodes is a non-executive director and is the senior independent director.
He is a member of the audit committee and the nomination committee and is the chairman of the remuneration committee.
He also chairs the board of trustees of five of the companys pension funds.
Brief biographical details of Mr Rhodes appear on page 13.
Mr Rhodes accounting and corporate finance background enables him to contribute effectively to the companys strategy and risk management, and his extensive involvement in pension trusteeship provides skills valuable to the functioning of the companys schemes.
Following performance evaluation, Mr Rhodes performance continues to be regarded by the Board as effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Resolutions 8 set out in the notice of AGM proposes the re-election of Mr N G Hannah as a director.
Mr Hannah is a non-executive director and serves on the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee.
Brief biographical details of Mr Hannah appear on page 13.
As a chartered surveyor and commercial property specialist, Mr Hannahs experience is highly relevant to the strategic management of the companys property portfolio.
Following performance evaluation, Mr Hannahs performance continues to be regarded by the Board as effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Resolution 10 set out in the notice of AGM deals with the special business to be transacted at the AGM.
Resolution 10 Authority to purchase own shares special resolution At the Annual General Meeting in 2004, the company was given authority the 2004 Authority to purchase up to 13,115,252 of its ordinary shares, representing ten per cent of its then existing issued ordinary shares, through market purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the 2004 Authority was restricted to five per cent above the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares for the five dealing days immediately preceding the day of a purchase.
During 2004, the directors have not made any market purchases of the companys ordinary shares.
Nevertheless, the directors believe it remains in the interests of the shareholders of the company to have authority to make purchases of ordinary shares when market conditions are favourable.
Therefore the directors are seeking the approval of shareholders for the revocation and replacement of the 2004 Authority by way of a special resolution, details of which are included in the notice of AGM on page 59.
Pursuant to this authority, the company would be able to purchase up to 13,118,777 ordinary shares, representing ten per cent of the companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
The authority would only be exercised if the directors expected it to result in an increase in earnings per share and in compliance with any other restrictions placed on the company from time to time.
Instead of immediately cancelling them, the company may decide to hold shares purchased pursuant to this authority to the extent statutory requirements are met and provided they do not exceed 10 per cent of the companys issued share capital in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash, or transfer to an employees share scheme, although they may be cancelled immediately upon repurchase in the light of circumstances at the time.
The company proposes to comply with the relevant requirements of the guidelines issued by the Investment Committees in this regard.
Currently, there are outstanding options to subscribe for a total of 7,200,556 ordinary shares of 25p each in the company, representing 5.49 per cent of the companys existing issued share capital.
If the company were to exercise in full the authority to purchase its own shares which is proposed in resolution 10, the ordinary shares for which there are outstanding options to subscribe would represent 5.78 per cent of the companys existing issued share capital as reduced by those purchases excluding any shares held in treasury.
The results of votes taken on a poll will be declared at the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Where a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions will be disclosed at the meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be attended by the respective chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Systems of internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code has introduced a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of all systems of internal control.
Continuing the process for the assessment of risks and corresponding systems of control, established in 2001, the Board has during the year reviewed all relevant risk areas and systems of internal controls and received reports on new risk areas and changes to existing ones, and the corresponding systems of internal controls, under the following headings: financial physical transactional technological socio-economic political and regulatory The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing the systems of internal control.
Operational management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying and evaluating risks facing the groups businesses and for putting in place procedures and practices to mitigate and monitor risks.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Operational management is supported by a multi-disciplinary team known as the Risk Control Group, drawn from central finance, internal audit, information technology, legal and human resources functions in the development and communication of policies and procedures for risk control.
Internal audit reports its findings monthly directly to the Board.
Both the internal audit function and the Risk Control Group report to the Audit Committee at least three times a year.
There is a direct line of communication between the head of internal audit and the Audit Committee.
The secretary chairs the Risk Control Group and reports to the Board on the work of the Risk Control Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Major commercial, technological and financial risks are assessed at the Boards annual strategic planning meeting, which reviews the companys principal areas of business and considers any adaptations to the companys business strategy required to meet specific commercial and other risks or threats.
The conclusions are incorporated in the companys business strategy and formally adopted by the Board.
The Board has established a strong control framework within which the group operates.
This contains the following elements: Management structure Pendragon is a large multi-franchise retailer of motor vehicles and ancillary services operating through a franchise group structure.
Each franchise or business group leader participates in a monthly operational meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
Best practice meetings, at which key operating controls and improvements to their implementation are discussed, are held monthly, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
Communication There is an embedded culture of openness of communication between management and the Board on matters relating to risk and control.
Face-to-face and video-conference meetings of all operational teams occur regularly.
Processes and controls devised centrally are communicated across the group by means of control manuals and procedural checklists and are reinforced at operational meetings and via video communications.
Financial reporting There are comprehensive management reporting disciplines which involve the preparation of financial plans by all operating units.
The plans are reviewed by executive management and are subsequently passed to the Board for approval.
Monthly actual results are reported against the approved plans.
Investment appraisal The group has a clearly defined framework for capital expenditure including appropriate authorisation levels beyond which such expenditure requires the approval of the executive directors and, for larger capital projects and acquisitions, the Board.
There is a prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which places heavy emphasis on the commercial and strategic logic for the investment, and demands a detailed financial presentation of the business case.
Functional reporting The group has identified a number of key areas which are subject to periodic reporting to the Board.
These areas are given particular emphasis through the operation of appropriately constituted teams which meet regularly, and report to the Board via a designated executive director.
These include the following central functions: group finance, treasury, corporate tax, value added tax, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, insurance, legal, payroll and property.
Risk control A risk control group, consisting of representatives from the finance, internal audit, information technology and legal teams, with responsibility for the development and monitoring of the groups systems of internal control, meets regularly and reports to the directors via the Audit Committee.
Its remit includes the identification and assessment of new risks facing the groups businesses, business continuity planning and the establishment of policies and procedures for risk control for implementation in the groups businesses.
It has the power to co-opt representatives from the groups operating businesses to assist in the design of new systems of control and the improvement of existing ones.
A twice-yearly review of the risk control groups work is included in the Boards agenda.
Processes, responsibilities and monitoring mechanisms and frequencies are defined and communicated to the directors and executives concerned and a regular pattern of meetings and reporting requirements established to ensure that the Board is sufficiently informed of risk management measures to enable them to review the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the group is in a sound financial position with adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed budgets and other financial information.
The financial statements of the group have therefore been prepared on the basis that the group is a going concern.
