P&O Annual Report 2004 33 Corporate governance Corporate governance The revised Combined Code on corporate governance the Combined Code, which implements the recommendations made in the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths guidance for audit committees, came into effect for the Company for the financial year commencing 1 January 2004.
During 2004 the Company complied in all material respects with the Combined Code apart from the balance between the non-executive and executive directors.
During 2004 non-executive directors constituted less than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
However, in light of the high calibre and wide experience of the four non-executive directors, this is not considered a significant departure from the principles of the Combined Code.
Additionally, David Williams was appointed as a new non-executive director on 1 January 2005 and, since that date, non-executive directors have constituted at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The following is an explanation of the Companys corporate governance policies in the light of the Combined Code.
Directors The full Board meets at least nine times each year.
Although there is a prescribed pattern of presentation to the Board, including matters specically reserved for the Boards decision which include strategy: the annual budget: major transactions: key appointments and divisional structure: personnel, health, safety and environmental policies: insurance and risk management: and internal controls, all Board meetings tend to have further subjects for discussion and decision taking.
Board papers, including an agenda, are sent out in advance of the meetings.
Board meetings are discursive in style and directors are encouraged to offer their opinions.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the management: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reect the longer term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the quality of the investment process against objectives, prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems subject to the continuing oversight of the Board and the audit committee as set out below.
A list of the directors of the Company is given on page 23.
There is a Chairman, a Chief Executive and a senior non-executive director.
The nonexecutive directors are independent of management and have no relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Sir John Collins is a director of N M Rothschild & Sons NMR which provides financial advice to the Company, but since Sir Johns role is solely as a non-executive director of NMR on a xed remuneration with no relationship to the income or profits of NMR, the Board continues to regard him as independent.
Sir John Parker is a non-executive director of Carnival plc which benets from a trade mark licence in respect of the P&O name and ag.
The company receives no fee for this licence.
The Company has various other business relationships with Carnival plc, but these are considered to be immaterial both individually and in aggregate.
Given the limited nature of the contractual relationships between P&O and Carnival plc and Sir Johns role solely as a non-executive director of Carnival plc, the Board regards him as independent.
Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, but as with executive directors they must seek election at the first available annual general meeting after their appointment and thereafter stand for election at least every three years.
During the year the Board carried out a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
This was carried out with the assistance of external consultants.
The procedure adopted was for each director to complete a detailed questionnaire, on a nonattributable basis, on his perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness of the Board and any of its committees on which he served, and on the performance of the Chairman and each of his fellow directors.
Each director was then interviewed by the consultants in order to achieve an overall assessment and identifying areas requiring improvement.
It was decided by the non-executive directors that in view of the Chairmans impending retirement, it was not appropriate to conduct an individual evaluation of his performance.
A final report from the consultants, setting out their findings and suggesting avenues for further work, was then presented to the Board towards the end of the year.
The evaluation drew particular attention to the fact that the Board was in a transition phase reecting changes in the Groups business.
The Group is restructuring from a diversied conglomerate to a more focused business.
Accordingly the Board is moving away from a holding company approach and is increasingly addressing issues at group level which were previously managed in divisions.
The review identied key areas on which to focus, in respect of both process and topics for debate.
Progress will in future be reviewed by the Board annually, with assistance from external consultants where appropriate.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is also a director, and independent professional advice at the Companys expense if necessary.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal committees of the Board, during 2004 together with details of attendance.
Lord Sterling did not attend those meetings of the nomination committee that discussed the appointment of his successor.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 12 4 6 3 Attendance: Lord Sterling 12 n a n a 1 Robert Woods 12 n a n a 3 Sir David Brown 10 4 6 2 Sir John Collins 9362 Michael Everard 12 3 5 3 Rodney Galpin 12 4 6 3 Michael Gradon 12 n a n a n a Nick Luff 12 n a n a n a Russ Peters 11 n a n a n a Peter Smith 12 n a n a n a 34 P&O Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance Directors remuneration The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 37 to 45.
Relations with stockholders The Companys practice is to send the notice of the annual general meeting and proxy voting forms to stockholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman always sets aside a period of time for questions from the oor by eligible stockholders and the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are expected to attend.
It is the practice of the Company to indicate the level of proxy voting at general meetings.
Feedback is obtained from major institutional stockholders through investor surveys, communication with the Companys brokers and in regular meetings with stockholders.
This feedback is communicated to the Board through regular reports.
When appropriate, the Chairman or the senior non-executive director takes soundings from major institutional stockholders on strategic and management issues.
Major institutional stockholders were consulted on the appointment of Sir John Parker as Chairman designate prior to the announcement of his appointment.
All press releases and further stockholder information are available on the Groups website, www.
Results presentations and trading updates are made available via webcasts.
Accountability and audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control described below has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Board has delegated certain powers and duties to Board committees, all of which operate within dened terms of reference.
Audit committee The audit committee, the members of which are given on page 23, is made up entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The audit committee is chaired by Rodney Galpin whom the Board considers has appropriate financial experience to full this role.
It is the Boards intention that David Williams should succeed Rodney Galpin as Chairman of the committee on 13 May 2005.
David Williams is currently Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer, external auditors and internal auditors are invited to attend audit committee meetings, along with any other director or member of staff considered necessary by the committee to complete its work.
The committee meets with external auditors and internal auditors without executive directors or members of staff present, as it considers appropriate and at least once a year.
During the year the committee assumed responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes.
This was previously undertaken by the risk committee.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available from the Companys website.
The committee meets at least three times each year.
The committees remit includes the following:.
to review the form and content of the financial statements to be presented to stockholders of the Company at the half year and at the year end, and, if necessary, to challenge the actions and judgements of management in relation to them:.
to keep under review the scope and results of the external audit and the independence, effectiveness, resources and objectivity of the auditors:.
to review the effectiveness of the system of risk management and at least annually to carry out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and the process of risk management:.
to review management and internal audit reports on the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control, including the year end financial reporting process and the Companys procedures for investigating concerns raised by members of staff, and to report its findings to the Board.
A whistle-blowing policy was put in place during the year:.
to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial controls: and.
to receive reports from the internal audit department and to monitor the quality of the departments work, ensuring that it is adequately resourced.
P&O Annual Report 2004 35 Corporate governance Independence of external auditors The audit committee is responsible for recommending a rm of auditors of appropriate independence and experience and for the approval of all audit fees and terms of engagement.
The committees policy is to undertake a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year which includes:.
a review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees:.
discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing any relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence:.
a review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit rm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner: and.
obtaining written conrmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
The audit committee has implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
the maintenance of a schedule of certain non-audit services, including consultancy, investment banking and legal services, which the Company is specically prohibited from obtaining from the audit rm:.
requiring the selection of providers of permitted non-audit services to be subject to a tender process, where appropriate: and.
requiring non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by the audit committee.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit rm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 3 to the accounts.
Risk management process The Group risk management process, on which the review of effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management is based, has the following key features:.
Through a series of interviews, management discussions and risk assessment workshops, all major businesses within the Group determine the most significant risks to the achievement of their business objectives.
Appropriate risk management activity is then determined and any required action plans are implemented.
This is a continual process, and may be associated with a variety of financial, operational and compliance matters including organisation structures, business strategies, disruption in information technology systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements..
The risks and associated controls are summarised in risk portfolios and are presented to the Board for review.. At each year end, divisional management certify that the risk management process is in place and an assessment has been conducted throughout their businesses and that appropriate internal control procedures are in place or in hand to manage the risks identied.
These self-certications are made available to the audit committee..
The self certication statements referred to above include a section where divisional management state that they are not aware of any irregularities involving actual or suspected fraud or breach of regulation, legislation or contract that may cause significant loss to the Company.. Finance departments across the Group complete a control self-assessment questionnaire.
The results of this questionnaire are subject to review by the internal audit department.
Summarised results of this exercise are presented to the audit committee..
The Groups principal associate has throughout 2004 convened a risk committee which has overseen the development of a risk management process covering all significant parts of the business.
The Board now considers that, with risk management well embedded in normal management processes, a separate risk committee is no longer necessary and its responsibilities can be assumed by the Board, audit committee and management.
36 P&O Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance Internal control The Board has complied with the guidance of the Turnbull committee by establishing a strong control framework within which the Group operates and the audit committee has undertaken a review of the effectiveness of internal controls and process of risk management in accordance with its remit.
The principal features and key high level control procedures include:.
An organisation structure which supports clear lines of communication and accountability and delegation of authority rules which specify responsibility.. Business strategies are prepared at divisional level and are approved by the Board.
In addition, there are annual budgeting and strategic planning processes.
Financial forecasts are prepared every quarter.
Actual performance is compared to budget, latest forecast and prior year on a monthly basis.
significant variances are investigated and explained through normal monthly reporting channels.. Key performance indicators are produced to summarise and monitor business activity..
Evaluation and approval procedures for major capital expenditure and significant treasury transactions..
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups health, safety, welfare and environment processes..
The internal audit department provides additional assurance to the Board and audit committee that key controls are operating as intended.
The risk management process and the system of internal control are subject to continuous improvement.
Nomination committee The nomination committee, the members of which are given on page 23, keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board, giving consideration to succession planning.
During 2004 the committee, with assistance from external search consultants, devised a candidate specication for an additional non-executive director that stipulated the individual should be appropriately qualied to be a future chairman of the audit committee.
A full external search was then conducted which led to the appointment of David Williams as a non-executive director.
He was selected for his record as a seasoned FTSE 100 Finance Director and for his previous non-executive experience.
A separate sub committee, consisting of all the independent directors and also assisted by the consultants, agreed the specication and conducted a full external search for a new chairman which led to the appointment of Sir John Parker as Chairman designate.
Sir John was selected for his strong credentials as a Chairman with a real understanding of the markets in which P&O operates.
Lord Sterling took no part in the selection of the new chairman.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee, the members of which are given on page 23, determines and agrees with the Board the framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, executive directors and other members of the executive management in the tier immediately below Board level.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for the executive members of the Board.
No director or executive is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
approves the design of, and determines the targets for, any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company for the executive directors and other relevant executive management and approves the total annual payments made under such schemes:.
reviews the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and stockholders and for any such plans determines each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and other senior executives and the performance targets to be used:.
determines the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each executive director:.
determines, within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as appropriate, the total individual remuneration package of each executive director and other relevant senior executives:.
ensures that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company:.
reviews and notes annually the remuneration trends across the P&O Group: and.
is responsible for appointing external remuneration consultants who advise the committee by providing reliable up to date information about remuneration in other companies.
