Corporate governance and internal control expenditure, authority levels for other expenditure, risk Compliance management and approval of the Strategic Plan and annual operating budgets.
The Board operates by receiving written The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate reports circulated in advance from the Executive Directors and the governance with the aim of continuing to enhance its Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within effectiveness.
The Annual Report is the principal means of their respective business areas within the Group.
Under the reporting to shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are This section sets out how the principles of good corporate discussed openly and, if necessary, presentations and advice are governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued received on occasions from other senior executives within the in June 1998 and annexed to the UK Listing Authority Rules have Group or external advisers.
been applied by the Company in practice.
A number of the enhanced corporate governance practices adopted by the Board Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group during the year arise from the new Code on Corporate Governance General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has derived from a review of the role and effectiveness of Nonestablished a procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their executive Directors by Derek Higgs and a review of audit duties, may seek independent professional advice at the committees by a group led by Sir Robert Smith, which is Companys expense.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed applicable to companies reporting years beginning on or after 1 on a regular basis.
Reporting against this new Code will commence in the Companys 2005 Annual Report.
Throughout the year, the The Board has adopted an internal procedure to evaluate the Company has complied with the provisions of the 1998 Combined performance of the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, Code except in respect of the appointment of a Senior independent each individual Director and the Group General Counsel & Non-executive Director for part of the year as set out below.
This evaluation procedure is being carried out for the year by the Group General Counsel & Company The Board Secretary, seeking all participants views on a range of prescribed questions designed to ensure objective evaluation of The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the performance.
The participants responses are then to be Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-executive summarised by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Directors.
Ms D A Nichols and Mr G D Connell were appointed Nonfor the Board to consider and determine whether any changes are executive Directors on 12 June and 1 October 2003 respectively.
necessary for the Board to be more effective.
Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield and Mr A T Fletcher were also Nonexecutive Directors on the Board until their retirement on 31 July All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship 2003.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having a independent and Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield was the Senior particular responsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the independent Non-executive Director until his retirement on 31 development of the business are critically reviewed.
The NonJuly 2003, with Mr G D Connell being subsequently appointed to executive Directors also critically examine the operational and the position on 7 June 2004.
The biographies on page 17 demonstrate financial performance of the Group and fulfil a key role in a broad range of business and financial experience and there is a corporate accountability through their membership of various clear separation in the roles of Chairman and the Chief Executives Committees of the Board.
Group Policy allocates the tasks of of South West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited.
All giving detailed consideration to specified matters, to monitoring Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
executive actions and to assessing reward to the Board Committees as follows:- During the year the Board met on twelve occasions and at each meeting all Directors were present with the exception of Ms Nichols and Mr Baty each on one occasion.
The Board has adopted Audit Committee a Group Policy which includes a schedule of matters reserved for The Audit Committee was chaired by Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield its decision.
The Board has delegated more detailed consideruntil his retirement on 31 July 2003 and then came under the ation of certain matters to Board Committees, to the subsidiary Chairmanship of Mr G D Connell from his appointment on 1 boards of South West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited and October 2003.
The other members of the Committee during the to the Executive Directors and Group General Counsel & Company year were Mr A T Fletcher until his retirement on 31 July 2003, Secretary as appropriate.
Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board include the approval of financial Ms K M H Mortimer and Ms D A Nichols from her appointment on statements, acquisitions and disposals, major items of capital 12 June 2003.
During the year, the Committee met on four Pennon Group Plc 25 Corporate governance and internal control Audit Committee continued Nomination Committee occasions and all members were present.
Its Terms of Reference The Nomination Committee was chaired by Mr K G Harvey and also includes reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the comprised Ms K M H Mortimer and both Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield financial and operating controls and reporting systems of the and Mr A T Fletcher until their retirement on 31 July 2003.
Ms D A Group through the work undertaken by the external auditors and Nichols was appointed a member of the Committee on 12 June internal audit section of the Company : considering overall 2003 and Mr G D Connell on 1 October 2003.
It meets as and when budgetary controls and executive delegations: considering the required to select and recommend to the Board suitable annual review undertaken by the Group of the effectiveness of the candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-executive system of internal control to ensure compliance by the Group with Directors.
During the year, it met with all members present on two the Group Risk Management Policy and internal controls: occasions to consider the appointment of Non-executive approving annually an audit plan for the Group: considering and Directors.
In order to assist in the determination of the suitability recommending to the Board the appointment of external auditors of the persons recommended for appointment, each Nonof the Company and its subsidiaries and approving their executive Director and the Executive Directors met the candidates remuneration: discussing with the external auditors the scope of independently.
their audit and considering the reports of the external auditors: and considering matters, including those relating to any Environment Committee unethical or fiduciary activities, which Directors may wish to raise with the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee pays The Environment Committee was chaired by Mr B A O Hewett a coparticular attention to the independence and objectivity of the opted member and former Non-executive Director of the auditors and has established a policy for the engagement of the Company and also comprised the Chief Executives of South West auditors for non-audit work by the Group.
In addition, the Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited.
The Committee met four Companys current auditors ensure that the senior partner times during the year with all members present except Mr responsible for the external audit of the Group remains Drummond on one occasion.
It is responsible for reviewing and responsible for such audit for no more than five years and that monitoring the environmental policies of Group companies and there is an independent concurring review partner of the auditors their achievement of environmental objectives and targets and who is involved in planning and in the reviewing of the final considering the Groups annual Environmental and Social Report.
accounts of the Company and also any critical matters that may be identified in the audit.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are Internal control contained in note 3 to the Financial Statements on page 39.
The Group Director of Finance attends by invitation and the n Wider aspects of internal control Companys auditors have the right of direct access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director.
The Board confirms that it continues to apply procedures in accordance with the guidance Internal Control : Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
As part of these procedures the Board has a Remuneration Committee formalised risk management policy which provides for the identification of key risks in relation to the achievement of the The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Ms K M H Mortimer from 1 August 2003 and Mr G D Connell from his appointment on business objectives of the Group.
This policy is applied by all business units within the Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
1 October 2003 and Ms D A Nichols from her appointment on 12 June 2003 were members of the Committee.
Sir Geoffrey A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the Chipperfield chaired the Committee until his retirement on 31 management of each business to identify financial and nonJuly 2003 and Mr A T Fletcher was also a member of the Committee financial risks.
Each business unit management committee then until his retirement on 31 July 2003.
The Committee met on eight receives as part of its regular management reports an enhanced occasions during the year and all members were present.
The and focused assessment of key risks against corporate objectives.
Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration and The Board at each meeting receives from Executive Directors terms of employment of the Executive Directors and senior details of any new high level risks identified and how they are to management of the Group.
Members of the Remuneration be managed, together with details of any changes to existing Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own risks and their management.
The Boards of South West Water remuneration.
The Directors report on remuneration, which also Limited and Viridor Waste Limited also receive at each meeting provides more information on the activities of the Remuneration similar reports in respect of their own areas of responsibility.
All Committee, appears on pages 18 to 24. senior managers are required to certify on an annual basis that they have established effective controls to manage risks and to 26 Pennon Group Plc The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to interest Internal control continued rate and counterparty risk.
Further details are included in note 27 to the Accounts.
operate in compliance with legislation and Group procedures.
All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective control and risk management is embedded within the Going concern organisation and that the Group is in a position to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue After the end of each financial year, both the Board and the Audit in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Committee receive a report from the Group General Counsel & reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Company Secretary on overall internal control compliance by the preparing the financial statements.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control is then undertaken initially by the Audit Committee and then Directors responsibilities statement reported on to the Board for final evaluation.
For 2003 04, both the Committee and the Board were satisfied with the The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare effectiveness of the internal control process and its operation.
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and n Internal Financial Control fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal for the financial year.
A system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
In preparing the financial statements, appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable There is an established internal control framework which and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
All comprises: relevant accounting standards which the Directors consider to be applicable have been followed.
a a clearly defined structure which delegates an appropriate level of authority, responsibility and accountability, including The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that accounting responsibility for internal financial control, to management of records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the operating units: financial position of the Company and the Group and which b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with an enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for safeguarding monitors monthly achieved results and updated forecasts for the the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for year against budget: the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Managers of operating units are required to confirm annually that they have Relations with shareholders adequate financial controls in operation and to report all material areas of financial risk.
Compliance with procedures is The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional reviewed by the Companys internal audit function: and shareholders and has a well developed investor relations programme.
During the year meetings with institutional shared an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals for all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with defined levels of holders were held and were attended by the Group Director of Finance and the Companys Investor Relations Manager and, on approval and a system for monitoring the progress of capital projects.
certain occasions, the Chairman, the Chief Executive of South The Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation and West Water Limited and the Chief Executive of Viridor Waste effectiveness of this framework.
The Board encourages the participation of shareholders at the annual general meeting and complies with Treasury activities the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of relations with shareholders.
The Groups treasury operations are managed in accordance with policies established by the Board.
Major transactions are By Order of the Board individually approved by the Board.
Treasury activities are K D WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary reported to the Board and are subject to review by internal audit.
24 June 2004 Financial instruments are used to raise finance and to manage risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative activity.
