Corporate governance Compliance As appropriate, and at least once a year, the Chairman calls a meeting of The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
and believes that, subject to certain matters specified below resulting Once a year the non-executive directors meet under the chairmanship of from its relationship with the Arla Foods amba group, it has complied the senior independent director without the Chairman being present.
This throughout the period with the principles and provisions of the Combined provides opportunities for the performance evaluations of board members.
Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 other than having established a formal procedure for performance evaluation of the board.
The companys relationship with the Arla Foods amba group, which acquired 51 per cent of the enlarged share capital of the company on The board 22 October 2003, is governed by the relationship agreement approved The executive directors of Arla Foods UK plc during the period were with the other aspects of the transaction by the companys shareholders at R C N Davidson Chief Executive, M S Christiansen 22 October 2003 to an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 24 April 2003.
The relationship 30 April 2004, N D Peet Finance Director, T J Smith and S D Stevens agreement contains a number of provisions relating to the composition appointed on 22 October 2003.
The non-executive directors were of the board, the acquisition or disposal of shares in the company by Sir David Naish DL Chairman, J Bigum Deputy Chairman: appointed on the Arla Foods amba group and other relevant matters.
The Arla Foods 22 October 2003, P E B Cawdron Deputy Chairman, M S Christiansen amba group is entitled to appoint two executive and three non-executive 1 May to 22 July 2004, S O Modig appointed on 22 October 2003, directors.
The relationship agreement also provides that as long as the K Nielsen appointed on 22 October 2003, Sir Richard Packer KCB and Arla Foods amba group holds 30 per cent or more of the companys share G C Summerfield CBE.
M S Christiansen and S D Stevens were nominated capital it will not take any action which precludes or inhibits the company by, and J Bigum, S O Modig and K Nielsen appointed by, the Arla Foods from carrying on its business independently, and will conduct all transactions amba group, which holds 51 per cent of the share capital of the company and relationships with the company on arms length terms and on a normal in accordance with the arrangements set out below.
Sir David Naish, commercial basis.
Sir David Naish, P E B Cawdron, Sir Richard Packer and Sir Richard Packer, P E B Cawdron and G C Summerfield are independent G C Summerfield are the independent directors charged with ensuring of management, have no connection with any other shareholder and are compliance with the relationship agreement on behalf of all shareholders.
considered to exercise an independent judgement on the matters which they consider as members of the board and its committees.
P E B Cawdron Where appropriate the board delegates matters to a committee.
The was appointed to be the senior independent director on 21 January 2004. principal committees are the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Biographies of the directors are set out on page 20.
Each committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which are published on the companys website, and reports to The board has agreed a written statement of the respective roles of meetings of the full board.
The board has also established a Treasury and Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman, whose time commitment Finance Committee.
to the company is reflected in his annual fee, holds the other positions set out on page 20.
The members of the Audit Committee during the period were P E B Cawdron Chairman, Sir David Naish DL resigned on 29 October The board meets regularly on dates agreed annually for the calendar year 2003, Sir Richard Packer KCB and G C Summerfield CBE.
During the period from 1 April 2003 to 30 September 2004 the is required to meet at least three times a year and met four times during full board met on 13 occasions.
During the period prior to the merger the period, with all members being present on each occasion except on 22 October 2003, five meetings were held and all the directors were that G C Summerfield missed one meeting owing to travel difficulty.
Since the merger it has proved more difficult to find dates on The committees activities are set out in the section on accountability which all the directors, whether based in the UK or in Scandinavia, can and audit on page 23. attend meetings.
During this period certain directors have been unable to attend one or more of the eight meetings held as follows: J Bigum 2, The relationship agreement provides that the Remuneration and P E B Cawdron 1, S O Modig 1, S D Stevens 1 and G C Summerfield 2.
Nomination Committee consists entirely of independent directors: the membership is set out in the remuneration report.
On 21 January 2004 The board has adopted a written procedure, a schedule of matters Sir Richard Packer succeeded P E B Cawdron as Chairman of the committee.
reserved to itself for decision, and a schedule of matters on which it The committee is required to meet at least twice a year and met on ten requires regular reports.
These documents are reviewed annually.
All members attended each meeting except The board has endorsed the companys strategy and values, which that Sir David Naish was unable to attend one meeting owing to another are shared with all staff, and approves the companys written policies.
When necessary the board is assisted in its deliberations by the companys advisers.
The boards principal role is to appoint the executive directors, Appropriate levels of information and communication between the to agree and monitor the implementation of the major strategic direction executive and non-executive members of the board are maintained for the company, to ensure that the necessary resources are in place between meetings.
Board members have access to the advice and and review management performance, and to protect the interests of services of the Company Secretary and are entitled, with the Chairmans shareholders.
The board receives reports and proposals either from the approval, to take independent professional advice.
executive directors or from its own committees, and reserves to itself for decision matters affecting the strategic direction of the company and matters having a significant financial or compliance risk.
The management is responsible for the operation of the company.
22 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The company has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the The principal elements of the system of internal financial control, which is appointment of directors.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee designed to recognise the special characteristics and business objectives keeps under review the balance of board membership and the experience of the company and to ensure that there is an ongoing process to identify, and expertise of the directors.
It has the power to identify and nominate evaluate and manage the risks to which the company is exposed, include: candidates for appointment as directors of the company.
It is in the nature of the companys activities that it is beneficial for independent A management structure which clearly defines authority, responsibility non-executive directors to understand the strategic implications arising and accountability, including responsibility for internal financial control: from the common agricultural policy and to have experience of the European agrifood industry at the most senior levels, and although the A well-established budgeting and reporting function, with budgets and committee makes use of an external search consultancy, it therefore relies results reviewed at senior level within the group to provide a timely and also on industry knowledge in considering candidates.
The committee also regular monitoring of performance: approves candidates for the two posts of executive director, which may be nominated by the Arla Foods amba group.
Following their appointment An investment evaluation process to ensure board approval for all major to the board, directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and expertise capital expenditure commitments.
and appropriate training is provided as necessary.
All directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment at the next Annual General The Treasury and Finance Committee reports through the Finance Director Meeting following their appointment, and at regular meetings thereafter.
The Audit Committee reviews the interim and annual At least one third of the board, by rotation, submits themselves for financial statements together with other financial information prepared for reappointment each year.
compliance purposes and assesses the effectiveness of the companys financial controls.
It has particular regard to major judgemental areas.
Shareholders In discharging its duties the committee meets regularly with and receives The companys brokers keep the board informed of the views of the reports from the companys senior financial officers and its external investment community.
The Chairman, and where appropriate the auditors.
The committee also meets without any company employee Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee or other being present.
The internal audit function has an agreed programme non-executive directors, maintains contact through the brokers with which is approved annually by the Audit Committee.
Internal audit reports major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold regular regularly on the results of its work to the executive management and to meetings with institutional investors to ensure that the companys strategy the Audit Committee.
The committee regularly reviews the relationship and objectives are widely understood.
The full board normally attends between the company and its external auditors, defines in what the Annual General Meeting, which is intended to provide a similar circumstances non-audit services may be supplied by the auditors and opportunity for private investors.
The company indicates the level of obtains appropriate assurances in respect of the continuing independence proxy votes cast on each resolution at the Annual General Meeting.
In general, the non-audit work provided by the auditors Both institutions and private investors also contact the company from is in related areas such as corporate finance and tax advice.
Where time to time as issues of interest arise.
appropriate, non-audit work is put out to competitive tender.
P E B Cawdron, as senior independent director, is available to shareholders Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial in the event that the normal channels of communication fail to operate period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the satisfactorily.
company, of the group and of the profit and loss account for that period.
In preparing these accounts the directors consider that they have selected Accountability and audit suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently, have made The board recognises its responsibilities for the groups system of judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and have internal control, including internal financial control, and for reviewing followed applicable accounting standards.
The responsibilities of the its effectiveness.
Such a system can only manage, rather than eliminate, groups external auditors in connection with the accounts are set out the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only in the independent auditors report.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence The board maintains procedures for identifying the significant risks faced for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going by the group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems concern basis in preparing the accounts.
These systems include a continuing assessment of the operational, financial and compliance risks inherent in the companys The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper activities.
The board has approved an appropriate level of procedure for accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time control and for internal reporting of each identified risk, in appropriate cases the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that using external advisers, and reviews these systems half-yearly.
The board the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are receives more frequent reports on the risks perceived as being of greatest responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the significance to the company.
These procedures, which comply with the group and to prevent fraud and other irregularities.
guidance prepared by the Turnbull working group, have been in place throughout the period and up to the date of signing of the accounts.
23 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
