Directors report The directors of Pilkington plc present their annual report The Groups human resources policy and practice are designed to and the audited financial statements for the year ended secure the goodwill, motivation, commitment and contribution of 31st March 2004. all employees to the aims and success of the business.
The Groups policy statement has been distributed to all Group companies.
The Group profit and loss account for the year is set out on page 22 and in the accompanying notes.
The Group has a long established and well recognised policy of encouraging employee involvement through communication and PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS consultation on a wide range of issues.
Every opportunity is taken The principal activities and operations of the Group are described to invite employees to participate in multi-disciplinary quality and on pages 12 to 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial process improvement activities.
The Group also makes wide use Statement.
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed of employee surveys.
on page 55 and the principal joint ventures and associates in notes 16 and 17 to the financial statements.
Further information, The Group publishes an international magazine, Pilkington Focus, including details of important events affecting the business which communicates the Groups interim and final results and of the Group, its joint ventures and associates, is given in the exchanges news on Group businesses.
The Group also has on its Chairmans Statement and the Finance Directors Review, which intranet a Group electronic news channel, Focus Online.
The are included in the Annual Review.
Group intranet provides up to date information on objectives, performance and activities in the Group.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ordinary activities before taxation and exceptional A European Forum is well established, at which senior items was 143 million 2003 144 million.
The profit on management and employee representatives from the Groups ordinary activities before taxation and after exceptional items was European operations meet annually to exchange information and 136 million 2003 140 million.
The profit attributable to the views on the business.
shareholders of Pilkington plc was 78 million 2003 68 million.
More information on employment issues is set out on pages 27 The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.25p and 28 of the Annual Review.
per ordinary share which, taken with the interim dividend of 1.75p EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES per ordinary share, makes a total dividend for the year of 5.0p per Pilkington is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in all ordinary share 2003 5.0p.
Payment of the recommended final its companies and to meeting its obligations to offer employment dividend, if approved at the annual general meeting, will be made opportunities to disabled people and people becoming disabled on 30th July 2004 to shareholders registered on 11th June 2004. during their employment.
A policy statement has been distributed SHARE CAPITAL to all Group companies.
At 31st March 2004 there were 1,275 million ordinary shares TRAINING of 50p each in issue 2003 1,260 million shares.
The Group has a people development policy committing it to the Options were granted in the year to employees and directors under training, retraining and continuous development of all employees the companys share option schemes in respect of 12.2 million in order to develop their full potential and to achieve a flexible, shares 2003 9.4 million shares.
skilled and informed workforce, at all levels, which is committed to the aims of the business.
A policy statement has been Further details of changes in the share capital are shown in note communicated to all Group companies.
The Group has a range of management training and development SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS initiatives, co-ordinated from the UK, which are focused on At 26th May 2004, the company had been notified of the following developing the high performing managers required to deliver the interests in its ordinary share capital: Groups strategy.
These initiatives provide development in general No.
of shares % of issued management and in the functional skills required to achieve worldmillions share capital as notified class levels of performance.
Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Ltd. 256.11 20.59 Within the individual businesses of the Group, training is provided Legal & General Investment to meet the broad range of needs of all the workforce and the Management Limited 37.71 3.00 specific needs of each particular business.
Increasing use is being made of e-learning techniques to ensure RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT training is delivered in a timely and cost effective manner.
There is Research and development expenditure for the Group amounted to also a continuing high level of training devoted to e-business skills 33 million for the year to 31st March 2004 2003 35 million.
to ensure employees can use new computer and communication Just under half of this expenditure was in the UK, primarily at the technologies to full effect in reducing costs and improving the Pilkington European Technical Centre at Lathom, Lancashire, and quality of service provided to customers.
the remainder at the Groups R&D facilities at sites in the USA and Europe.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYMENT AND PRACTICE The Group has a Code of Conduct which sets out the standards At 31st March 2004 there were 23,900 people working for the of behaviour expected of the Group and all who work for the Group worldwide, of whom 62 per cent were employed in Europe, Group, in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, 19 per cent in North America, eight per cent in South America and business partners, the community including the environment, 11 per cent in Australasia.
government and all other stakeholders in the business.
This code Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 1
