Corporate governance continued should continue to be a member of this committee.
During the THE MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS RISK AND year this committee had five meetings, and all persons, who INTERNAL CONTROL The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of were members at the relevant time, attended all meetings with internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms the exception of William Harrison, who was not present at that such a review has taken place during the year.
of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate Nomination Committee.
The membership, responsibilities and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide activities of this committee are detailed in the Nomination only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material Committee Report.
During the year this committee had three misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, meetings and all persons, who were members at the relevant evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, time, attended all meetings with the exception of William including operational and compliance risks and this is supported by Harrison, who was not present at one meeting.
effective controls, policies and procedures.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the The terms of reference of the Executive Board, the Audit date of approval of the Directors Report and Accounts.
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available on the companys website at Management has responsibility for the identification and www.
evaluation of significant risks applicable to their area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The risks are assessed by the business management teams on a The boards Report on Directors Remuneration is contained on continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal pages 8 to 16 and details the remuneration policy and particulars and external sources including production breakdowns, disruption of the remuneration of each director.
A significant proportion of in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and the remuneration of the executive directors is linked to corporate regulatory requirements.
Where appropriate the risk management and individual performance.
process will include the use of insurance.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Internal control is also reinforced by the Code of Conduct, Meetings with principal institutional investors are held on a approved by the board.
This code, which has provided practical regular basis and feedback from these meetings is circulated to guidance for all staff since it was drawn up in 1995, was updated all directors.
In addition the chairman and the senior independent in 2002 to present a more outward looking view of the Group and director hold an annual meeting with the principal institutional to recognise more clearly its social responsibility.
investors, and a number of the non-executive directors attend During the year the Audit Committee of the board: the brokers and analysts presentation meetings in respect of the interim and final results.
As part of the induction process for reviews the external and internal audit work plans: a new non-executive director the major institutional shareholders receives and reviews a schedule of Group risks and how they are invited to meet such director.
are being managed, built up from information filtered through There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the organisation: and directors at the annual general meeting and to discuss any considers reports from management and internal audit on issues on an informal basis at the conclusion of that meeting.
the system of internal control including any material control Shareholders can communicate directly with individual directors weaknesses.
and the company secretary during the year.
In addition, a website containing published information, including a briefing for The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of investors, presentations to analysts and press releases can be meetings to the board and the board receives the minutes of all found at www.
AUDITORS In addition, the Group has in place a system of control selfThe Audit Committee keeps under review the independence and certification and hierarchical reporting which provides for a objectivity of the external auditors.
Under the revised procedures documented and auditable trail of accountability against the relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external internal control policies and procedures, including the Code of auditors the approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee Conduct.
These procedures are relevant across all Group operations is required prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly the external auditors in excess of a specified amount.
The current higher levels of management and finally to the board.
This process major area of non-audit services provided by the external auditors is facilitated by internal audit who also provide a degree of is taxation services.
Further details of the non-audit services assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of provided by the external auditors are set out in note 6 to the internal control.
The group chief executive also reports to the board on behalf of the Executive Board on significant changes in the business and the The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the external environment, which affect the risk profile of the Group.
actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory The finance director provides the board with monthly information, requirements and best practice designed to ensure their which includes key results and performance indicators.
Where independence from the company, including the periodic areas for improvement in the system of internal control are rotation of key partners.
4 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
