Corporate governance report Compliance The Board and its directors are subject to regular independent The company has established procedures and policies to ensure appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the group achievement.
The appraisal in 2004 was facilitated by an Combined Code, issued in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting external consultant, culminating in individual directors interviews Council on Corporate Governance.
In 2004, the company has with the Chairman in the case of the Chairman, the interview was complied with these provisions for the entire reporting period conducted by the senior independent nonexecutive director.
except to the extent specified below.
A full report was provided to the Board and follow-up actions were agreed.
The duration of two executive directors employment contracts Mr Charles Jamieson and Mr John van der Welle was not in There is a comprehensive induction programme for new directors compliance with the Combined Code recommendation of one and the Committee considers the need for existing directors to year.
The company has announced that Mr Jamieson will retire update and refresh their skills and knowledge as part of the at the end of June 2005.
With respect to Mr van der Welle, the independent appraisal exercise.
company has agreed a variation to his contract of employment which has reduced his notice period, which now complies with Re-election of directors the one-year recommendation.
In accordance with the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association one-third of directors retire each year, with their Mr Alizai, one of the non-executive directors receives a consultancy reappointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
fee from the company, and therefore, does not strictly fall within This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at the definition of independent.
The Board considers that this is least every three years.
In addition, any director of the age of outweighed by the range of experience and contribution Mr Alizai 70 or over who would not otherwise be required to retire, must makes to the company.
Consequently, whilst a majority of the Board retire by rotation.
is represented by non-executive directors, only four of nine, excluding the Chairman, fall strictly within the independence The non-executive directors bring independent judgment to definition of the Combined Code.
bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
Excluding the The Board Chairman, non-executive directors comprise over one half of the The Board of Directors held seven full Board meetings in 2004.
Of these, Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray and J R W The Board retains full and effective control over the group and Orange are considered to be wholly independent.
Selection of monitors executive management.
It is responsible for overall suitable non-executive directors is a matter for Board approval group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
major capital expenditure projects, corporate overhead costs and consideration of significant financing matters.
No one individual Board committees has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairmans role is nonThe Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a executive and during 2004 the Chief Executive was supported Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each by three experienced executive directors responsible for of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
finance, corporate performance, investor relations, operations, development, production, exploration and business development.
An objective and professional relationship is maintained with the There are formal and transparent procedures for appointment of auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit and Risk Committee, new directors.
The Board has a further five non-executive directors comprising only of non-executive directors, is responsible, among with wide experience in commerce, as can be seen from their other matters, for monitoring the adequacy of the groups financial career histories in this report.
In compliance with the Combined and internal controls, the efficiency and aptness of the companys Code, Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of the Remuneration risk management arrangements, accounting policies and financial Committee, is identified as the companys senior independent reporting, for providing a forum through which the auditors can non-executive director.
Matters reserved for Board decision are report to the Board and for ensuring the provision of information clearly laid down, including the appointment of the Company to enable the Board to present a balanced and understandable Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Details of the executive directors service contracts are laid out on page 21.
Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15 15 Corporate governance report continued The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee were required by code provision D. 2.1 are as follows these procedures amended in 2003 to take account for the requirements of the Code have been in place for the year under review and up to the date and are reviewed annually.
The Audit and Risk Committee also make of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts : recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the companys external auditors and during 2004 the Board Management of business risks An ongoing process, in accepted the Audit and Risk Committees recommendation to accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been established for appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys external auditor.
identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a The Audit and Risk Committee meets three times a year and its risk matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of members are Messrs R V Emerson Chairman, S J Dobbie, I Gray those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions and J R W Orange.
Minutes of the meetings of the Audit and Risk being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Committee are distributed to all Board members.
The directors receive assurance directly from the business units Premier has developed a policy to ensure that the provision and functional management through the completion of annual of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies and independence or objectivity.
The term non-audit services does procedures and risk management processes.
These processes not include any advice on tax.
The Audit and Risk Committee has are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to delegated to the executive directors the authority to contract for achieve business objectives.
It is accepted that the systems can non-audit services with the external auditors subject to observing only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against established guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least three times Premier has adopted a consistent framework model for application a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors across the group, an annual report is produced on compliance and senior employees.
The groups remuneration policy is to with that model and with the group risk management process.
provide a level of remuneration which is sufficient to attract and The report is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
In relation to executive directors and senior employees, the objective is that a significant element of the Monitoring A comprehensive control manual is in force which remuneration package is linked to corporate performance.
No regulates a wide range of day-to-day activities both in the UK director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
Its members and overseas offices including environmental controls, health are Messrs J R W Orange Chairman, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson and safety regulations and political risks.
The application of and I Gray.
Full details of the directors remuneration are shown internal control procedures is reviewed during visits to the in the Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 28. overseas offices by head office staff.
Audits are carried out by partners in joint ventures from time to time.
The Nomination Committee has been established to consider the composition of the Board in relation to the appointment A process of business control reviews has been developed and of new directors.
Its members are Sir David John Chairman, implemented across the group.
This process is designed to provide Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray, C J A Jamieson and assurance to the Board that the company is embedding effective J R W Orange.
The Committee met twice in 2004. risk management into its operations.
The report of each review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The make up of members of the Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee is in During 2004, the key business risks identified were formally compliance with the Combined Code recommendation.
discussed by the group Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors, on a semi-annual basis.
This process will Internal control continue during 2005.
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal control.
The internal control system The Board receives regular reports on any major issues that is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal control systems in any have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group under review.
and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control 16 16 Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Management structure The Board has overall responsibility Premier also undertake audits on those joint ventures where for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically they are not the operator.
These audits are undertaken either in reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has been partnership with other joint venture participants or individually.
given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
The In order to obtain individuals who have the appropriate skills set executive directors together with key senior executives constitute to conduct these audits, Premier utilises the services of specialist the Management Committee which normally meets weekly.
Corporate accounting Responsibility levels are communicated Further, where Premier has a concern over a particular area throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and an they will instigate a specific review using either internal or external authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, resources as required.
This approach of creating the best segregation of duties and other control procedures.
team by utilising the diverse skill set within the company and supplementing this with external individuals enables Premier Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence to cover the full range of business risks that the company faces of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and without having to employ full time resources focusing on internal subsequent training courses.
Budgetary process There is a comprehensive budgeting system Over the past number of years, management has developed a with an annual budget approved by the Board covering capital system of Business Unit Risk Workshops and Control Reviews to expenditure, cash flow, the profit and loss account and balance harness the combined skills of Premier and specialist consultants sheet.
Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised to provide peer review and challenge on the risks identified, and forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
to confirm that effective controls are in place and are operational.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Audit and Investment appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures Risk Committee.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and Therefore, at this time, it is not recommended that a dedicated review procedures.
The authority of the directors is required for key internal audit resource is required.
treasury matters including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including hedging, oil Going concern price hedging, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
After making enquiries and in the light of the groups loan Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business facilities, the group budget for 2005 and the medium-term plans, or an asset is to be acquired.
the directors have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable During 2004, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are adequate to continued to be adopted.
provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes Communication with shareholders are made to internal control systems to capture any new risks or Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in business environment.
the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to shareholders.
The company has also produced a separate In accordance with Combined Code provision D. 2.2. on Corporate corporate brochure in 2003, 2004 and 2005 highlighting Premiers Governance, the Audit and Risk Committee have considered capabilities and business principles: the documents are available whether a dedicated internal audit resource was required at to all shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional Premier during 2004.
Premier currently obtains independent investors, and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to confirmation on the operation of internal controls from a variety their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed of sources, detailed below.
and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss Where Premier is the operator, all other non-operating joint the progress of the group.
The company also maintains a website venture parties conduct audits of the operations.
com which provides detailed information on cover a range of areas.
Additionally, government auditors the groups activities.
undertake a detailed review of the procurement process and costs incurred where required.
Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17 17
