co. uk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Your Board continues its commitment to achieving and maintaining the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
Good corporate governance means effective control through a balanced Board based on clear lines of responsibility with adequate control mechanisms providing appropriate checks and balances, all operating within a clearly understood and effective regime of accountability.
Companies are required by the Stock Exchange to state whether they have complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the UK Listing Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Code and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
We are also required to set out how we have applied the principles set out in The Code.
Arriva has complied with the provisions and applied the principles of The Code as set out below.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman non-executive, three independent non-executive directors and four executive directors including the Chief Executive.
It is the Boards intention over time, as appropriate opportunities arise and consistent with the effective management of the Board, to make non-executive appointments to ensure that at least 50 per cent of directors are independent.
The Board The Board met ten times in 2004, with one further meeting being devoted to a strategy review discussion: each director attended all meetings in 2004.
Information of an appropriate quality is made available to the Board in a timely manner to assist it in performing its duties.
The agenda for each meeting will always as a minimum include the following core elements: Chairmans Matters, the Chief Executives review of the business and relevant current developments that affect the business, the review by the Group Managing Director Finance and reports from Board Committees.
Additional items are presented as required.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year, the Remuneration Committee met on two occasions and the Nomination Committee met on four occasions: each member of the respective Committees attended all the meetings.
The Health & Safety Committee met four times during the year.
The Board has a specific schedule of matters reserved for its decision covering the approval of financial statements, long-term objectives and commercial strategy, treasury policy, health & safety policy, major capital investment and all matters concerning the maintenance and development of good corporate governance practice.
The Board attributes importance to the concept of impartial input and challenge in its proceedings and this is supported through the offices of the non-executive directors.
Benchmarking each non-executive director against the definitions of independence formulated in the Higgs Review, the Board is satisfied that each of its non-executive directors is of independent status.
Mr. M. J. Allen is the Senior Independent Director and as such provides an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct from one another and are defined in the Boards Corporate Governance Manual.
The Chairman is responsible for the smooth and effective operation of the Board, for the membership of the Board, for facilitating relationships between the company and investors and for Board succession.
The Chief Executives function is to run the business and to implement the decisions of the Board.
In particular the Chief Executive will formulate and keep under review proposals for the strategic direction of the business, ensure that appropriate operational resources are available and kept regularly under review, promote the company to the investing community and potential investors, and account to the Board for the financial performance of the company.
There is an established procedure for any of the directors both executive and non-executive to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
A facility is in place for any new appointee to the Board, and any current director, to receive appropriate training: all newly appointed directors will be required to attend a comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
The Board has undertaken an evaluation of its own performance during the year.
Each director completed a confidential questionnaire to ascertain directors views on the appropriateness of the skills and knowledge base of the Board, the quality of Board discussion and the contribution of each individual member.
The responses were reviewed by the Chairman and his report was discussed by the Board.
As a result, a number of changes are being made primarily designed to ensure that the Board focuses clearly on strategic issues and to refine and extend the remit of some of the Board Committees in line with the growth of the business.
The Group operates a Whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can in confidence report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place or if health & safety standards are being compromised.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health & safety, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The Whistleblowing policy is subject to periodic review by the Audit Committee and was last reviewed on 24 February 2005: the Audit Committee was satisfied with regard to the operation of the Whistleblowing policy.
One third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year and all directors will have submitted themselves for re-election every three years.
Newly appointed directors will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
A resolution to approve the appointment of Sir Richard Broadbent as a director of the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 April 2005.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29 www.
co. uk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who administers the Board and Board Committee meetings and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
Four committees are maintained and operated by the Board: the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees.
Copies of the terms of reference of these Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
i Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors excluding the Chairman : the quorum necessary for the transaction of business is three.
To assist it in performing its duties the Committee may invite other members of the Board, the Group Internal Auditor, any member of the companys senior management team and any representative of the companys external auditors to attend its meetings: however no invitee has any right of attendance.
The Committee met three times in 2004.
The Committee is chaired by Mr. Simon Batey, a Chartered Accountant and Finance Director of United Utilities plc.
The Committees terms of reference require it to monitor the integrity of all the companys financial statements and any other statements which may be issued relating to the companys financial performance or financial standing: this review will include an assessment of financial reporting judgments applied.
The Committee undertakes a review of the objectivity, resources and independence of the auditors  LLP PwC and has considered the appointment of the auditors for 2005.
Following review the Committee believes that PwC continues to deliver a satisfactory service and has recommended to the Board that PwCs re-appointment as auditors be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed that recommendation.
As part of its process for ensuring continued audit independence, the Audit Committee reviews the level and nature of non-audit work performed by the auditors.
With regard to the Group Internal Audit function, the Committee has conducted an appraisal of the role of Group Internal Audit and how effectively that role is discharged.
The review was based on a questionnaire addressed by members of the Audit Committee and senior management and focused on the following issues: 1.
The continued adequacy of the Group Internal Audit Charter and Group Internal Audit structure with particular focus on roles and responsibilities, the scope of work of the Group Internal Audit function, reporting relationships and the depth of resources both on a skills basis and a geographical basis.
Group Internal Audits understanding of the business and the key dynamics of the business.
The lines of communication and the quality of that communication between the Group Internal Auditor and the Audit Committee.
The Committee concluded that the Group Internal Audit function was performing well and represents a significant and effective unit in both the monitoring of the Groups internal controls and the quality, reliability and integrity of the Groups accounting records.
As an essential component of its work the Committee will review and report to the Board on the companys internal controls and risk management systems, including risk transfer and risk retention.
Summarised Internal Audit reports are reviewed by the Committee which will report to the Board on action being taken to address relevant internal audit findings: the Committee will monitor the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions and will satisfy itself as to the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
ii Remuneration Committee Full details of the work of the Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 28. iii Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises five members: the Chairman, the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee is chaired by Mrs. Veronica Palmer.
The Committee met four times in 2004 and is responsible for keeping under review the structure, size and operation of the Board and for forming an assessment and making appropriate recommendations regarding the resourcing of the Board.
Where vacancies arise the Committee will, in consultation with the Chief Executive and relevant external advisors, identify the particular skill set, personal attributes and characteristics that are perceived as necessary to fulfil the role and will produce an appropriate job description and will be directly involved in the recruitment process.
With regard to the appointment of Sir Richard Broadbent as non-executive Chairman an initial brief on candidate profile, experience and skills base was discussed with recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart.
The Committee is required to monitor and review the succession planning process and has the responsibility, together with the Chairman of the Board, for the effective application of the Board evaluation procedure.
30 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 www.
co. uk iv Health & Safety Committee The Health & Safety Committee recognises the critical importance of safety in a passenger transport business such as Arriva.
The Committees remit was refined following the Board evaluation process described above to focus exclusively on safety.
Its role, akin to an audit committee in relation to financial controls, is to monitor and review on behalf of the Board the development and application of safety policies and procedures throughout the business.
The membership consists of the non-executive directors and the executive director responsible for safety the Group Managing Director Corporate Affairs : the Committee is chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent.
Relations with Shareholders Your Board has for many years considered the continuation of a dialogue with the major institutional investors to be a very important activity in the companys development.
There can be little doubt that wherever practicable continuing clear communications with the institutional investors is a positive and mutually beneficial exercise.
It is your Boards intention to ensure that these arrangements, subject to any statutory or regulatory limitations, continue and are developed in a way designed to be helpful and constructive both to the company and the major investors.
A procedure has been established for the non-executive directors to receive direct feedback from the companys stockbrokers of the investing communitys perception of the Boards performance and strategy.
Meetings with the brokers in this regard are held privately with no executive director being present or entitled to attend.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will include, following each resolution, the provision to the meeting of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution.
Accountability and Audit Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review required extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation Structure The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise as far as possible the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the Group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the Group and stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises.
Certain of the Groups key functions including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury, insurance and health and safety are undertaken centrally.
b Financial Reporting The Group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against both budget and prior period performance.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole.
c Internal Audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the Group Internal Audit department.
Group Internal Audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the operational systems of control for all parts of the Group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group Internal Audit functions by conducting independent appraisals in a professional manner leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group Internal Audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the Groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases: the Group Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Group Internal Audit department is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors: the Group Internal Auditor and the departmental managers are all chartered accountants.
d Risk Assessment and Risk Control An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31 www.
co. uk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The approach adopted by the Board involves a process which is designed to encourage divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board had devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an appropriate risk assessment and control programme and works closely with the Group Internal Auditor in engaging in a formal review of the key business risks to the Group.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues that the Board has identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme, and in formulating its approach has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the Group Internal Audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business.
As part of the risk management regime a disaster recovery plan has been developed and tested for the Groups key locations and provides for recovery procedures for all the primary business functions.
Going Concern The directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
This approach was endorsed by the Audit Committee at its meeting held on 24 February 2005.
32 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
