Corporate governance 23 Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Throughout the year and to the date of this Annual Report the Company has been in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted in 1998.
Although the Company is not required to comply with the revised Combined Code, published in July 2003 and annexed to the Listing Rules, the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for which the Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders.
Therefore, the Board has taken steps to implement the provisions of the revised Code and in this report it provides details of how the principles and supporting principles of the revised Code are being applied.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
All Committee Terms of Reference and a Statement of Corporate Governance can therefore be found on the Companys web site at www.
com or are available from the Company Secretary on request.
What are the responsibilities of the Board of Directors?
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims and ensures that necessary resources are in place in order for the Company to meet its objectives.
All members of the Board take collective responsibility for the performance of the Company and all decisions are taken objectively and in the interest of the Company.
The Board is responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and risk management processes and is responsible for ensuring that the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational management of the Company to the Executive Directors and other senior management it has established guidelines requiring specific matters to be subject to decision by the full Board of Directors, including material acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: to satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls are robust and defensible: to ensure appropriate remuneration and that succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior members of the management team.
How frequently are Board meetings held?
At least ten Board meetings are scheduled during the year and additional meetings are convened to consider matters that are time-critical.
The attendance records of individual directors can be found in the table below.
The Chairman ensures that, at least annually, the Non-executives meet without the Executive directors present.
Attendance at meetings The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the past year was as follows: Board meetings Committee meetings Director Monthly Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 11 4 2 0 1 2 Phil Cox 10 1 20 Giles Thorley 11 Robert McDonald 11 Adrian Fawcett appointed 15 01 04 6 Fritz Ternofsky 10 3 2 2 Peter Cawdron 9 3 0 3 Mike Foster 10 410 Randl Shure 9 2 Marc Jonas 10 0 Cornel Riklin resigned 15 12 03 3 1 Martin Glenn replaced Phil Cox as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 17 November 2004.
2 Peter Cawdron replaced Phil Cox as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 15 October 2003 and both therefore attended all meetings required.
3 Ian Fraser replaced Mike Foster as a member of the Audit Committee on 17 November 2004.
What are the responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive?
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive which has been formally documented and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for: leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda: ensuring, through the Company Secretary that the members of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information: arranging the regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Corporate governance 24 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com The Chief Executive is responsible for: developing strategic operating plans: preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for the Company and closely monitoring performance against plans and budgets: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and overseeing the day to day management of the Company.
How is the Board structured to ensure that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making?
The Board is considered to be of sufficient size such that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the size of the business.
The Board is balanced by a strong Non-executive element and at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and have no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect their judgement as directors of the Company.
The Board have reviewed the provisions in the revised Combined Code and have concluded that, under the definitions used, four of the current Non-executive Directors are independent and one, Marc Jonas, is not as he was previously employed as an executive director of the Company.
The Board have appointed Fritz Ternofsky as its Senior Independent Non-executive Director and, on appointment, the Chairman was considered by the Board to meet all of the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code.
How are directors appointed to the Board?
The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for board appointments and for succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board.
New directors stand for election at the AGM following their appointment.
Every director is required to retire by rotation, and may stand for re-election if nominated by the Nomination Committee, at least every third year.
During the year one executive, Adrian Fawcett, was promoted to the Board and since the year end one executive, Jonathan Paveley, has been promoted to the Board and two Non-executive Directors have been appointed to the Board: all appointments were made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Non-executive appointments are considered by the Board to meet all of the independence criteria set out in the revised Combined Code.
Marc Jonas retired from the Board during the year.
None of the full time Executive directors have more than one Non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
What information is provided to the Board?
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
What is the role of the Company Secretary?
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
The Directors, each of whom has received appropriate training, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that there are good information flows within the Board, its Committees and between the Non-executive Directors and senior management.
The Company Secretary facilitates the induction and professional development of Board members who are available to meet major shareholders if requested.
How is the performance of the Board evaluated?
During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Board considered that the best means of effectively undertaking this process was a combination of self and peer assessment.
This process was led by the Chairman except in relation to his own performance as Chairman which was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The results of the review were discussed by the Board and an appropriate action plan was agreed.
Corporate governance 25 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com What are the Companys main internal controls?
The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
This relates to all controls, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management matters.
The Company has on-going processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in the form of a Company Risk Register which is reviewed and updated by the Board regularly as required.
The processes are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee, and have been in place for the whole of the financial year and up to the date of this report.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for Directors consideration.
An annual review of corporate strategy, which includes a review of risks facing the business.
A risk management process Company Risk Register which identifies the key risks facing the business and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis.
An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
A review procedure for organisational restructuring following Company acquisitions.
Documented and enforced policies and procedures.
Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board.
An Audit Committee of the Board, comprising Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
An internal audit function which performs continuous assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk management and control.
Regular reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors regarding internal audit and control up-dates.
Documented fraud and whistle blowing policies and procedures and regular review of current whistle blowing regulations.
Reporting of accounting policies and accounting and legal developments to the Board.
Review of treasury policies and activities by the Audit Committee.
An established programme of management and staff development and succession planning.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year, taking account of any material developments which have taken place since the year end.
The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out above.
In the opinion of the Board the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
What is the role of the Audit Committee?
The Audit Committee is made up of Peter Cawdron Chairman, Ian Fraser, Randl Shure and Fritz Ternofsky and meets at least three times per annum.
Senior management, including the Finance Director and internal and external auditors attend for part or all of each meeting.
The internal and external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and its Chairman.
All of the members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee considers all matters relating to internal control and reporting, internal and external audits, the scope and results of the audits, the independence and objectivity of the auditors and establishes that an effective system of internal financial control is maintained.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors.
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non-audit services can be provided by the Companys external auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
During the year and to the date of this report the work of the Audit Committee has included consideration of the following matters: the financial statements in the 2003 and 2004 Annual Report and Financial Statements, and the interim report issued in April 2004.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from the external auditors in relation to the 2003 and 2004 final audits and the 2004 interim review: the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: the recommendation of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors and the approval of the 2004 external audit plan and fee proposal: evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: the progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising and the effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resource: the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls: and the Companys whistle blowing procedures.
Corporate governance 26 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com What is the role of the Nominations Committee?
The Nominations Committee is made up of Mike Foster Chairman, Philip Cox and Peter Cawdron and meetings are held as deemed necessary by the Chairman of the Committee.
The majority of the Nominations Committee members, including the Committee Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee considers all matters relating to the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes necessary recommendations to the Board with regard to adjustments and new appointments where deemed necessary.
The Committee considers the mix of skills and experiences that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of directors to meet its assessment of what is required to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee is made up of Fritz Ternofsky Chairman, Martin Glenn and Mike Foster and meets at least twice a year and at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee deems necessary.
All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and other directors may be invited to attend meetings as considered appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will consider all material elements of the remuneration policy, remuneration and incentives of Executive Directors and senior management to ensure that remuneration is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully: however is not in excess of what is necessary for this purpose.
This is performed with reference to independent remuneration research and professional advice, which is provided by Halliwell Consulting, in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee will then recommend to the Board on the framework for executive remuneration and its cost.
The Board is then responsible for implementing the recommendations and agreeing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
The Directors are not permitted, under articles, to vote on their own terms and condition of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparation of the Report on Directors Remuneration which forms part of this Annual Report and can be found on pages 27 to 38.
How does the Company communicate with shareholders?
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and the Company aims to provide as much information as is commercially sensible to both existing and potential investors, recognising that transparency is the best way to develop understanding of the Companys strategy, performance and growth potential.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds quickly to all enquiries.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meetings to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is our policy for all Directors to attend the AGM whenever possible.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director are available at the AGM and are available to answer relevant questions.
The Chairman also writes to the top 20 major shareholders on an annual basis inviting them to correspond with the Non-executive Board of Directors if they so wish.
