Corporate governance report The Company is committed to high In broad terms, the Chairman is formulation, in addition to monitoring standards of corporate governance and responsible for the leadership and its performance and its executive supports the principles of governance set effective running of the Board and management.
The non-executive out in the revised Combined Code on ensuring that appropriate strategies, directors are given the opportunity to Corporate Governance issued in July plans and budgets are presented for have meetings together, either with or 2003 the Combined Code.
This report consideration by the directors, without the Chairman present, and have contains the Companys statement on arrangements for Board succession are so met within the past 12 months.
how it has applied the principles set out regularly reviewed, and that all directors, in the Combined Code, together with its both executive and non-executive, are The non-executive directors are statement of compliance with the Code consulted to enable them to play their appointed for three years: reprovisions.
These statements are made full part in the Companys activities.
appointment is not automatic, and each following a review which has been carried non-executive directors position is out in relation to the Boards practices.
The Chief Executive is responsible for subject to review prior to the expiry of The Companys auditors have reviewed the executive management of the Group their term of office.
In accordance with our compliance with those provisions and for the implementation of the the Companys articles of association of the Combined Code specified for strategies, policies and plans approved one third of the Board are required to their review.
retire by rotation each year provided that each director shall retire at least Compliance with the Combined Code The Board recognises its responsibility once every three years.
Directors The Board is pleased to confirm that to identify and determine price sensitive appointed during the year are required throughout the year it has applied the information and for ensuring that such to seek re-election at the first Annual principles of good governance contained information is disseminated in an General Meeting following their in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take With the exceptions as set out below the The Board normally meets on nine days independent professional advice in the Company was in compliance throughout during the year including a two-day furtherance of their duties, if necessary, the year with the provisions of the strategy meeting held in October.
It has a at the Companys expense.
Directors Combined Code: schedule of matters specifically reserved have access to the advice of the to it, some of which are delegated to Company Secretary.
The removal of the Provision A.
3.2 of the Code stipulates Board committees, and these include Company Secretary is a matter for the that at least half of the Board should be the approval of the interim and annual Board as a whole.
results, dividend policy, circulars to The Board believes that, with four shareholders and listing particulars, An evaluation review of board wholly-independent directors and matters relating to share capital, the effectiveness was carried out in 2004 a non-executive Chairman, its approval of the annual budget and all using an independent facilitator, and the membership currently includes a major capital projects, investments and outputs and the recommendations from sufficient number of non-executive commitments.
that review are being implemented.
directors to ensure that an effective balance of views is in place.
All of the The Board currently comprises the The membership of the Board directors were appointed before the Chairman, five executive directors and committees is provided on pages 28 revised Code came into force.
All of the and 29. four non-executive directors are Reference is made in the considered by the Board to be The Chairman The Board is mindful Remuneration Report on pages 35 independent of management and free of the need to ensure that the Chairman to 41 to the inclusion of fluctuating from any business or other relationship has enough time available to devote to emoluments within the calculation which could materially interfere with the the job.
Peter Smiths other significant of pensionable pay provision B.
1.1 by exercise of their independent judgement.
commitments are described in his brief reference to paragraph 6 of Schedule The senior independent director is biography shown on page 28, together A although any new executive Peter Long.
with the changes to those commitments directors joining after 1 April 2000 that took place during the year: these will have their pensionable salary Brief biographical details of the current changes had no material impact upon calculated by reference to basic salary directors of the Company are set out on the amount of time that he was able to only.
It has been decided, at this time, pages 28 and 29.
The non-executive devote to his Chairmanship of RAC plc not to seek to withdraw the benefit directors are from varied business and during 2004. from those executive directors to other backgrounds and all directors have whom the inclusion of fluctuating the benefit of induction visits and The Executive Board As shown on page emoluments in pensionable pay briefings following their appointment 29, the Executive Board comprises the calculations is a contractual to the Board.
The Company keeps the Chief Executive, four business Managing entitlement.
However, this matter will directors informed about the Companys Directors, the Group Finance Director, the continue to be kept under review.
business and regulatory matters by Group Quality and Systems Director, and written briefings and presentations by the Group Human Resources Director.
The Board There is a clear division of senior management.
The non-executive authority and responsibility at the most directors experience allows them to It is collectively responsible for the senior level within the Company through exercise independent judgement on the operational performance of the the separation of the roles of Chairman Board and their views carry substantial Company, developing strategy, leading and Chief Executive, and a written weight in Board decisions.
They management development and agreeing schedule setting out their respective contribute to the Companys overall company-wide operational policies.
It responsibilities has been agreed by strategy, business planning and policy meets on a regular basis, usually monthly.
32 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 The Nominations Committee The monitoring policy on the engagement Tax consulting: In cases where they Nominations Committee is established of the external auditor for the supply are best suited, the Company uses under written terms of reference and of non-audit services: and KPMG and its associates, but also comprises the Chairman, the Chief uses other tax consultancies.
Executive and the four non-executive monitoring the effectiveness of the Significant pieces of tax work are directors.
It is chaired by Peter Smith and Safety Net policy in encouraging evaluated competitively.
meets at least once a year, and at such employees to raise concerns about other times as is required.
possible improprieties where ever General and systems consulting: All they may arise.
significant consulting projects are put It keeps the balance of Board out to competitive bids.
KPMG is only membership under review and makes Audit independence The Audit allowed to tender when Group recommendations to the Board on the Committee and Board put great management and KPMG are satisfied appointment of new directors.
emphasis on the objectivity of our that the nature of the work presents no auditors KPMG Audit Plc in their potential threat to the independence The Remuneration Committee The reporting to shareholders.
Of the general and Remuneration Committee is operated systems consulting work that has under clearly defined terms of reference, The annual appointment of auditors by taken place in the Group in recent is comprised exclusively of independent the shareholders at the Annual General years, KPMG and its associates has non-executive directors.
This Committee Meeting is a fundamental safeguard but, had only a small part.
is chaired by John Poulter and its role is beyond this, controls have been in place described in the Remuneration Report for some years to ensure the In accordance with the policies set by on pages 35 to 41. independence of the auditors.
the Audit Committee, the Group Finance Director must approve and authorise all The report includes a statement of the The KPMG audit director and senior non-audit work carried out by KPMG Boards policy on the remuneration of manager are present at Audit Committee Audit Plc and its associates anywhere in executive directors and details of the meetings to ensure full communication.
the Group in excess of a predetermined remuneration of each director.
A part of this process details are also set out in note 7 to the The overall performance of the auditors is to determine that other potential financial statements on page 56. is reviewed annually by the Audit providers of the services have been Committee based on their own adequately considered.
The Audit The Audit Committee The Audit assessment of the auditors performance Committee also receives and reviews Committee comprises all of the nonand assisted by management feedback.
regular reports on the non-audit work executive directors and was chaired by Feedback is also provided to that is carried out by the auditors under Peter Long throughout 2004.
The Audit independent reviewers appointed by that authority.
Committee normally meets four times per KPMG Audit Plc for review on a periodic year and has an agenda linked to events basis.
This activity forms part of KPMG Remuneration for non-audit work in the Companys financial calendar.
Audit Plcs own system of quality control.
undertaken in 2004, and sanctioned Other directors have a right of attendance The Audit Committee has regular by the Committee, is shown in note 4 to and other members of management may meetings with the auditors, without the Accounts: further assurance services attend by invitation.
The Committee is executive management being present.
included advice on IFRS, half-year established with written terms of review, business disposals and reference, which include the following The scope of the years audit is completion accounts: tax advice was main responsibilities: discussed in advance by the Audit for work undertaken in respect of VAT Committee.
Rotation of the audit repayment claims for earlier years.
monitoring the integrity of the directors responsibilities within KPMG Companys financial statements: Audit Plc is included within the Audit Taken together these controls and Committees annual review and is also procedures provide the Audit Committee reviewing the internal control and risk required by their professions ethical with adequate confidence in the management systems: standards.
The audit director responsible independence of KPMG Audit Plc in its for the engagement has held his role for reporting on the audit of the Group.
monitoring and reviewing the internal two years.
There is also rotation of audit function: personnel within the audit teams.
Internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and making recommendations to the Assignments with KPMG Audit Plc maintaining the systems of internal Board in relation to the appointment and its associates are, and have been, control and risk management throughout of the external auditor and approving subject to controls by management that the Group and the joint venture the remuneration and terms of have been agreed by the Audit companies and for reviewing their engagement of the external auditor Committee so that audit independence effectiveness.
The systems are designed following appointment by the is not compromised.
In summary the to manage risks that may impede the shareholders in general meeting: procedures are: achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate these monitoring and reviewing the external Audit related services: As auditors risks.
The internal control system can auditors independence, objectivity this is the main area of work of therefore provide only reasonable, not and effectiveness: KPMG Audit Plc and its associates.
absolute, assurance against material It includes formalities relating to misstatement or loss.
shareholder circulars, regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 33 Corporate governance report There is an ongoing process for environment, and from a number All of the Directors attended the identifying, evaluating and managing the of functions, including Treasury and Companys Annual General Meeting significant risks faced by the Group and Tax: and held on 29 April 2004. this has been in place, across the Group and the joint venture companies, during formal statements prepared by the Shareholder relations The Company is the year under review and up to the date Chief Executive and by the managing committed to ongoing communications of approval of this report.
That process is directors of each operating division across its shareholder base, whether regularly reviewed by the Board and and company, in which they institutional investors, private or accords with the Combined Code and acknowledge their responsibility employee shareholders.
related guidance the Turnbull guidance for the internal control and risk on Internal Control.
management systems in their Regular feedback is obtained of the businesses and confirm that they views and opinions of major shareholders, The processes used by the Board to have reviewed the effectiveness and these are communicated to the review the effectiveness of the systems of those systems.
On 14 May 2004, the of internal control, including financial, Company hosted an Investor Day for operational and compliance controls and Procedures for monthly reporting institutional investors and analysts at risk management systems, for the period on internal control issues enable which presentations were given to enable included the following: management to identify any control them to enhance their understanding of problems and to ensure that prompt the Groups key business areas.
a control environment which includes and effective remedial action is taken.
an organisation structure with clearly The Companys website defined levels of responsibility and The Groups control systems and www.
co. uk provides both authority in addition to documented processes are subject to risk focused corporate and customer information controls and procedures appropriate internal audit which plays an important and is updated on a regular basis.
to the specific area: role in providing independent assurance to management and the Audit Committee The chairmen of the Audit, Nominations financial reporting procedures which on key control processes.
and Remuneration Committees are require the Board to approve the available at Annual General Meetings annual budget, review monthly trading The Audit Committee reviews internal to take any relevant questions.
The proxy results, balance sheets and cash flows audit plans and reports, together with votes cast at general meetings are made against plan, and receive explanations external audit plans and management available to all shareholders and are from management on significant letters.
The variances: Company proposes a separate resolution The scope of the work, authority and on each substantially separate issue and a risk management process in which resources of internal audit are reviewed does not bundle resolutions together senior managers around the Group by the Audit Committee, which also inappropriately.
confirm the nature and extent of the conducts a self-appraisal exercise to significant risks facing their monitor its own effectiveness, annually.
Shareholders have been asked to vote businesses and the likelihood of their on the Remuneration Report since the materialising and the controls in place Board meeting and committee Annual General Meeting held in 2001 and to manage such risks: attendance in 2004 The table below the Board will be asking shareholders to shows the record of each Directors approve the Remuneration Report at the regular reporting to the Board on risk attendance at the Board Meetings held forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
management, including health, safety during the year, and also at the principal and environmental risks and risk committees of which they were transfer, and the internal control members: Nominations Remuneration Audit Name of director Board Committee Committee Committee Andrew Harrison 9 9 3 3 Peter Harris 9 9 Debbie Hewitt 9 9 Peter Long 8 9 3 3 9 9 4 4 Richard Pennycook 9 9 John Poulter 9 9 3 3 9 9 4 4 Peter Smith 9 9 3 3 Dianne Thompson 9 9 1 3 8 9 3 4 Jon Walden 9 9 John Warren 9 9 3 3 9 9 4 4 34 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004
