Audit committee charter Scope and authority Discuss with management and the external auditors managements The Group is required by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, the New York choice of accounting principles and material judgments, including Stock Exchange NYSE, and the Australian Stock Exchange ASX to whether they are aggressive or conservative and whether they are establish an Audit committee.
Each of the UKLA, the NYSE and the ASX common or minority practices.
also lay down rules and guidelines for the composition of the committee Recommend to the boards that the annual financial statements and the work to be undertaken by it.
These requirements, where not self reviewed by the committee or the chairman representing the evident, have been incorporated into this Charter.
committee for this purpose be included in the Groups annual report.
The primary function of the Audit committee is to assist the boards Review the regular reports prepared by the internal auditor including of directors in fulfilling their responsibilities by reviewing: the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
the financial information that will be provided to shareholders and the public: External auditors the systems of internal financial controls that the boards and Recommend to the boards the external auditors to be proposed to management have established: shareholders.
the Groups auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
Review with the external auditors the planned scope of their audit and In carrying out its responsibilities, the committee has full authority to subsequently their audit findings including any internal control investigate all matters that fall within the terms of reference of this recommendations.
Accordingly, the committee may: Periodically consult with the external auditors out of the presence of obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties management about the quality of the Groups accounting principles, at the cost of the Group: material judgments and any other matters that the committee deems have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may appropriate.
reasonably require, including the external and internal auditors.
Review the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional Composition and regulatory requirements.
The Audit committee shall comprise three or more non executive Review and approve the fees and other compensation to be paid to directors, at least three of whom shall be independent.
The boards will the external auditors.
determine each directors independence having regard to any past and Review and approve any non audit work and related fees to be present relationships with the Group which, in the opinion of the boards, carried out by the external auditors.
could influence the directors judgment.
Ensure that the external auditors submit a written statement outlining all All members of the committee shall have a working knowledge of of its professional relationships with the Group including the provision of basic finance and accounting practices.
At least one member of the services that may affect their objectivity or independence.
Review and committee will have accounting or related financial management discuss with the external auditors all significant relationships they have expertise, as determined by the boards.
with the company to determine their independence.
A quorum will comprise any two independent directors.
The committee may invite members of the management team to Internal auditor attend the meetings and to provide information as necessary.
Review the qualifications, organisation, strategic focus and resourcing of internal audit.
Meetings Review the internal audit plans.
The committee shall meet not less than four times a year or more Periodically consult privately with the internal auditor about any frequently as circumstances require.
Audit committee minutes will be significant difficulties encountered including restrictions on scope of confirmed at the following meeting of the committee and tabled as soon work, access to required information or any other matters that the as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
The Groups senior financial management, external auditors and internal auditor shall be available to attend all meetings.
Risk management As part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the Review and evaluate the internal processes for determining and committee should meet with management, the external auditors and managing key risk areas.
the internal auditor, at least annually, to discuss any matters that are Ensure the Group has an effective risk management system and that best dealt with privately.
macro risks are reported at least annually to the board.
Require periodic reports from nominated senior managers: Responsibilities confirming the operation of the risk management system including The boards and the external auditors are accountable to shareholders.
advice that accountable management have confirmed the proper The Audit committee is accountable to the boards.
The internal auditor operation of agreed risk mitigation strategies and controls, and is accountable to the Audit committee and the finance director.
To fulfil its responsibilities the committee shall: Address the effectiveness of the Groups internal control system with management and the internal and external auditors.
Charter Evaluate the process the Group has in place for assessing and Review and, if appropriate, update this Charter at least annually.
continuously improving internal controls, particularly those related to areas of material risk.
Financial reporting and internal financial controls Review with management and the external auditors the Groups Other matters financial statements, stock exchange and media releases in respect of The committee shall also perform any other activities consistent with this each half year and full year.
Charter that the committee or boards deem appropriate.
This will Review with management and the external auditors the accounting include but not be limited to: policies and practices adopted by the Group and their compliance Review of the corporate governance practices of Group sponsored with accounting standards, stock exchange listing rules and relevant pension funds.
Review of the Groups insurance cover.
Review the Groups tax position.
76 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER
