Corporate governance The directors of Rio Tinto believe that high standards of corporate accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business.
governance are critical to business integrity and performance.
The To ensure an efficient process, the board meets regularly and in following report describes how this philosophy is applied in practice.
2004 had eight scheduled and one special meeting.
Details of directors As Rio Tintos three main listings are in London, Melbourne and attendance at board and committee meetings are set out below.
New York, the directors have referred to the Combined Code as The board has regular scheduled discussions on various aspects of attached to the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules the the Groups strategy and, in line with best practice, a dedicated annual two Code, the Australian Stock Exchange ASX Best Practice Corporate day meeting at which in depth discussions of Group strategy take place.
Governance Guidelines and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Directors receive timely, regular and necessary management and Corporate Governance Listing Standards, as well as the Sarbanesother information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
The board has Oxley Act of 2002, when formulating this statement.
agreed a procedure for the directors to have access to independent During 2004, Rio Tinto applied the principles contained in Part 1 of professional advice at the Groups expense and to the advice and the Code.
The detailed provisions of Section 1 of the Code have been services of both company secretaries.
complied with as described below.
Rio Tinto also complied with the ASX In addition to these formal processes, directors are in regular Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines and has voluntarily communication with senior executives from the different product groups, adopted the recommendations of the US Blue Ribbon Committee in at formal and informal meetings, to ensure regular exchange of respect of disclosures to shareholders, as detailed in the Audit knowledge and experience between management and non executive committees statement on page 74.
A statement on compliance with the directors.
To continue building on the formal induction programmes, New York Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Listing Standards is which all new non executive directors undertake, they are encouraged contained below in this statement.
to take every opportunity to visit the Groups operating locations.
The chairman also holds regular meetings with non executive The board directors without the executive directors present.
The Companies have common boards of directors which are collectively responsible for the success of the Group and accountable to Board performance shareholders for the performance of the business.
Throughout the rest In 2004, the board conducted a further formal process to evaluate its of this report, they will be described as the board.
effectiveness and that of the board committees and individual directors.
The board currently consists of 14 directors: the chairman, two Each directors performance was appraised by the chairman and, in executive directors and 11 non executive directors.
The Nominations a meeting chaired by the senior non executive director, the non committee continually assesses the balance of executive and non executive directors assessed the chairmans performance, taking into executive directors and the composition of the board in terms of the consideration the views of executive colleagues.
This evaluation process skills and diversity required to ensure it remains relevant in the current takes place annually and aims to cover board dynamics, board environment.
capability, board process, board structure, corporate governance, strategic clarity and alignment and the performance of individual The role and responsibilities of the board directors.
Following the evaluation, the directors believe they comply The role of the board is to provide the Companies with good governance with the requirements of Clause A.
6 of the Code and Principle 8 of the and strategic direction.
The board also reviews the Groups control and ASX Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines.
The directors have agreed to a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board, Independence including strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
The full list is The board has adopted a policy on directors independence.
The policy, available on Rio Tintos website.
which contains the materiality thresholds approved by the board, can be Responsibility for day to day management of the business lies with viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
the executive team, with the board agreeing annual performance targets The tests of director independence in the jurisdictions where Rio for management against the Groups financial plan.
The board is ultimately Tinto is listed are not wholly consistent.
The board has, therefore, Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2004 Name of Director Board Audit committee Remuneration Committee on social Nominations committee and environmental committee accountability AB AB AB AB AB Robert Adams 9 8 David Clementi 988854 Leigh Clifford 9 9 Leon Davis 9 9 3 3 Guy Elliott 9 9 Sir Richard Giordano 9887 3322 1 Richard Goodmanson Andrew Gould 988854 2 Oscar Groeneveld 77 3 Lord Kerr 9855 22 David Mayhew 9887 22 John Morschel 9 9 553322 Paul Skinner 9 9 3322 Sir Richard Sykes 9 8 5 5 4 Lord Tugendhat 3233 11 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings attended 1.
Richard Goodmanson was appointed on 1 December 2004 2.
Oscar Groeneveld resigned on 1 October 2004 3.
Lord Kerr became a committee member on 1 June 2004 Audit and CSEA 4.
Lord Tugendhat retired on 22 April 2004 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued adopted the following criteria for independence: independence of The Remuneration committee is responsible for determining the management, the absence of any business relationship which could policy for executive remuneration and for the remuneration and benefits materially interfere with the directors independence of judgement and of individual executive directors and senior executives.
Full disclosure of ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards all elements of directors and relevant senior executives remuneration deliberations or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 63 to 70, together the best interest of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of with details of the Groups remuneration policies.
The committee is business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director has chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and its members are Sir David Clementi, declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality to both Companies.
Andrew Gould, John Morschel and Richard Goodmanson.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that the majority of the The Nominations committee is chaired by the chairman of Rio Tinto, directors, Sir David Clementi, Sir Richard Giordano, Richard Paul Skinner.
It is the committees responsibility to ensure that there is a Goodmanson, Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr, John Morschel, Sir Richard clear, appropriate and transparent process in place to source and Sykes, Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox are all independent.
Its responsibilities also include evaluating the Sir Richard Giordano has served as a director since 1992, the strength, balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board and identifying objectivity and nature of his contribution to board and committee and nominating, for the approval by the board, candidates to fill board discussions are fully consistent with those of an independent director.
vacancies as and when they arise.
The committee reviews the structure, Sir Richard will retire at the end of the 2005 annual general meetings.
size and composition of the board and makes recommendations with Leon Davis, a former chief executive of the Group, and David Mayhew, regard to any changes it considers appropriate.
The committee also who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs stockbrokers, are not reviews the time required to be committed to Group business by non independent.
Leon Davis will also be retiring by rotation at the end of the executive directors and assesses whether non executive directors are 2005 annual general meetings.
devoting sufficient time to carry out their duties.
In addition to Paul Paul Skinner was, until his appointment as chairman in 2003, an Skinner, the committee consists of Ashton Calvert, Sir Richard Giordano, independent, non executive director in compliance with the Code.
He David Mayhew and John Morschel.
Under the Code, two members of satisfies the tests for independence under the ASX Best Practice the committee are not considered independent: Paul Skinner, following Corporate Governance Guidelines.
his appointment as chairman, and David Mayhew.
The committee The directors biographies are set out on pages 58 and 59. composition is therefore not fully aligned with recommended practice in the UK.
The board takes the view, however, that the skills and experience Election and re-election of the members of the committee, combined with the flexibility of a Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general relatively small committee, makes the current composition both efficient meetings after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves for reand effective.
election at least once every three years.
Non executive directors are The Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews normally expected to serve at least two terms of three years and, except the effectiveness of management policies and procedures in place to where special circumstances justify it, would not normally serve more deliver those standards in The way we work, Rio Tintos statement of than three such terms.
business practice, which are not covered by the other board committees and, in particular, those relating to health, safety, the Chairman and chief executive environment and social issues.
The overall objective of the committee is The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the to promote the development of high quality business practices division of responsibilities has been formally approved by the board.
throughout the Group and to develop the necessary clear accountability on these practices.
Members of the committee, which is chaired by Board committees Paul Skinner, are Ashton Calvert, Leon Davis, Sir Richard Giordano, There are four board committees, the Nominations committee, Audit Lord Kerr, John Morschel and Richard Goodmanson.
committee, Remuneration committee and the Committee on social and environmental accountability.
Each committee plays a vital role in Executive directors other directorships ensuring that good corporate governance is maintained throughout the Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive Group.
Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the directors of other companies.
For full details of the Group policy and board and the committees themselves to ensure they continue to be at fees, see pages 63 to 70. the forefront of best practice and are posted on the Groups website.
Minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to the board, with oral Directors dealings in shares reports at the next board meeting.
All committee members are non Rio Tinto has a Group policy in place to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto executive directors.
securities by directors and employees.
The policy, which prohibits The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of dealings when in possession of price sensitive information and shortly accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of before a results announcement, can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
public financial information: review with management of procedures relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal Communication audit plans and reports: review with external auditors of the scope and Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective communication with results of their audit: the nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders and the general investment community.
To ensure shareholders: and the review of and recommendation to the board for shareholders are kept informed in a timely manner, the Group has approval of Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its responsibilities also adopted an External disclosure guidance, which is posted on the include the review of corporate governance practices of Group sponsored website appended to the Corporate governance guidance.
The committee has a number of training sessions which In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto has a comprehensive may cover new legislation and other relevant information.
The external website featuring in depth information on health, safety and the auditors, the finance director, the Group controller and Group internal environment, as well as general investor information and Group policies.
A copy of the Audit committee charter is Results presentations and other significant events are available as they reproduced on page 76 and can be found on the Rio Tinto website.
happen and as an archive on the website.
The Audit committee is chaired by Sir Richard Giordano and its The Group also produces a range of informative publications, which members are Sir David Clementi, Andrew Gould, David Mayhew and are available on request.
For further details, see page 151.
Following Sir Richards retirement in April 2005, Andrew Full advantage is taken of the annual general meetings to inform Gould will assume the chairmanship of the committee.
shareholders of current developments and to give shareholders the 72 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE opportunity to ask questions.
As recommended by the ASX Best the board and confirms that the Groups risk management and internal Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines, Rio Tinto Limiteds external compliance and control systems are operating efficiently and effectively auditor attends the AGM and is available to answer shareholder in all material respects.
questions about the conduct of the audit and the preparation and The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and content of the auditors report.
other members of staff who are required to exercise judgement in the The main channels of communication with the general investment course of the preparation of the financial statements are required to community are through the chairman, chief executive and finance conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with director, who conduct regular meetings with the Companies major the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
Non executive directors and the senior independent The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting director are also available as appropriate.
records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and the The Group also organises regular investor seminars which provide Australian Corporations Act 2001.
They have a general responsibility for a two way communication with investors and analysts: the valuable taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the feedback is communicated to the board.
An annual survey of major assets of Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
shareholders opinion and perception of the Group is presented to the The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity board by the Groups investor relations advisors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of this and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Statement of business practice responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial The way we work provides the directors and all Group employees with a statements since they were initially loaded on the website.
summary of the principal policies and procedures in place to help ensure that high governance and business standards are Going concern communicated and achieved throughout the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern Main policies are adopted by the directors after wide consultation, basis.
The directors report that they have satisfied themselves that the externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated Group is a going concern since it has adequate financial resources to to business units worldwide, together with guidance and support on continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Business units are then required to devote the necessary effort by management to implement and report on these policies.
Boards statement on internal control The following policies are currently in place: health, safety and the Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to maximise long term environment: communities: human rights: access to land: employees: shareholder value through responsible and sustainable investment in business integrity: bribery and corruption: corporate governance: mining and related assets.
The directors recognise that creating compliance: external disclosures, including continuous disclosure, shareholder value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
and code of ethics covering the preparation of financial statements The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal and political involvement.
These policies apply to all Rio Tinto control and for reviewing its effectiveness in providing shareholders managed businesses.
with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible There is also a Groupwide whistle blowing programme called assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, Speak-OUT.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns, operational and compliance controls, and risk management including any suspicion of a violation of the Groups financial reporting procedures.
Because of the limitations inherent in any such system this and environmental procedures, through an independent third party and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, it without fear of recrimination.
A process has been established for the provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material investigation of any matters reported with clear lines of reporting and misstatement or loss.
responsibility in each Group business.
The directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to the business was in place during 2004 and up to and including the date of approval partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
of the 2004 Annual report and financial statements.
The process is Rio Tintos report on social and environmental matters follows the reviewed annually by the directors and accords with the guidance set Association of British Insurers guidelines.
This report can be found on out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Details of the Groups overall and individual businesses social The Groups management committees review information on the and environmental performance continue to be published on Rio Tintos Groups significant risks, with relevant control and monitoring website and in the Sustainable development review.
procedures, for completeness and accuracy.
This information is presented to the directors to enable them to assess the effectiveness of Responsibilities of the directors the internal controls.
In addition, the board and their committees monitor The directors are required by UK and Australian company law to prepare the Groups significant risks on an ongoing basis.
financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair Assurance functions, including internal auditors and health, view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial safety and environmental auditors, perform reviews of control activities period and of the profit or loss and cash flows for that period.
To ensure and provide regular written and oral reports to directors and that this requirement is satisfied, the directors are responsible for management committees.
The directors receive and review minutes of establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls and procedures the meetings of each board committee, in addition to oral reports from for financial reporting throughout the Group.
the respective chairmen at the first board meeting following the relevant The directors consider that the financial statements present a true committee meeting.
and fair view and have been prepared in accordance with applicable Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be mitigated to accounting standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are for Rio Tinto's business and supported by reasonable and prudent transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the judgments.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have received a written statement from the chief Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and administrative executive and the finance director to this effect.
In accordance with offices complete an internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm ASX Best Practice Recommendation 7.2, this written statement is that adequate internal controls are in place and operating effectively.
The founded on a sound system of risk management and internal results of this process are reviewed by the executive committee and it is compliance and control which implements the policies adopted by then presented to the board as a further part of their review of the Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Groups internal controls.
This process is continually reviewed and The Audit committee adopted policies for the pre-approval of strengthened as appropriate.
permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors during In 2002, the Group also established a Disclosure and procedures January 2003 which were further refined and adopted during September committee, which was tasked with reviewing the adequacy and 2003.
Engagements for services provided by the Group's principal effectiveness of Group controls and procedures over the public auditors since the adoption of these policies were either within the disclosure of financial and related information.
The committee has been pre-approval policies or approved by the Audit committee.
presenting the results of this process to senior management and directors and will continue to do so.
Audit committee The Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures US Blue Ribbon Compliance statement and associated companies.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial The Audit committee meets the membership requirements of the Code control, it cannot guarantee that local management of mining assets will and the Blue Ribbon Report in the US.
The Group also meets the comply with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Accordingly, the review of disclosure requirements in respect of audit committees required by the their internal controls is less comprehensive than that for the Groups Australian Stock Exchange.
The Audit committee is governed by a managed operations.
written charter approved by the board, which the Audit committee reviews and reassesses each year for adequacy.
A copy of this charter The New York Stock Exchange is reproduced on page 76.
With effect from 31 July 2005, the Group will In November 2003, the SEC approved the new corporate governance become subject to the NYSE Rules on Audit Committees.
The listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The committee intends to comply with these rules when they come into Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on force.
the NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its The Audit committee comprises the five members set out below.
The corporate governance practices differ from these standards.
members, with the exception of David Mayhew, are independent and are The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and free of any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in believes that its corporate governance practices are consistent with carrying out their responsibilities.
David Mayhew is technically deemed not them, with two exceptions where the Company does not meet the strict to be independent by virtue of his professional association with the Group requirements set out in these standards.
in his capacity as chairman of Cazenove Group PLC, a stockbroker and The standards state that companies must have a nominating financial adviser to Rio Tinto plc.
However, the board has determined that corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent the relationship does not interfere with David Mayhews exercise of directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to independent judgement and believes that his appointment is in the best identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops interests of the Group because of the substantial financial knowledge and and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance principles expertise he brings to the committee.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, information about which is set out on page 72.
This committee does not Report of the Audit committee develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The The Audit committee met eight times in 2004.
It monitors developments board itself performs this task and approves the Groups overall system in corporate governance in the UK, Australia and the US, to ensure the of governance and internal controls.
Group continues to apply high and appropriate standards.
Rio Tintos Audit committee is made up of a majority of Many of the new US requirements have long been best practice independent non executive directors.
However, one committee member, and are incorporated into the committees charter, reproduced on page David Mayhew, is technically deemed not to be independent.
The charter is subject to regular discussion and has been reviewed board, the Audit committee and the Nominations committee are made in the light of new requirements and emerging best practice.
up of a majority of independent, non executive directors as defined by There is in place a set of procedures, including budgetary the NYSE listing standards.
guidelines, for the appointment of the external auditor to undertake non audit work, which aims to provide the best possible services for the Principal auditors Group at the most advantageous price.
The committee reviews the The remuneration of the Groups principal auditors for audit services and independence of the external auditors on an annual basis and a process other services as well as remuneration payable to other accounting firms is also in place to review their effectiveness to ensure that the Group has been set out in note 37 on page 127. continues to receive an efficient and unbiased service.
The committee Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence advised the directors that the Audit committee is satisfied that the of the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provision of non audit services by the external auditors during 2004 is provide a range of accounting and other professional services that might compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors compromise their appointment as independent auditors.
The engagement imposed by the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Furthermore, as part of the Groups principal auditors to provide statutory audit services, certain of its responsibility to foster open communication, the committee meets other assurance services, tax services and certain other specific services with management, the external auditors and the internal auditor is pre-approved by the Audit committee.
The engagement of the Groups separately.
principal auditors to provide other permitted services are individually subject to the specific approval of the Audit committee or its chairman.
Financial expert Prior to the commencement of each financial year, the Groups The Audit committee reviewed the SEC requirements for audit committees finance director and its principal auditors submit to the Audit committee a financial experts and the Combined Code requirement that at least one schedule of the types of services that are expected to be performed committee member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
during the following year for its approval.
The Audit committee may Following an in depth assessment, the committee recommended to the impose a US dollar limit on the total value of other permitted services that board that Sir Richard Giordano, Sir David Clementi and Andrew Gould be can be provided.
Any non audit service provided by the Groups principal identified as the Audit committees financial experts in the 2004 Annual auditors, where the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must report and financial statements.
The board has concluded that Sir Richard be subject to the Groups normal tender procedures.
However, in Giordano, Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi possess the requisite exceptional circumstances the finance director is authorised to engage skills, experience and background to qualify for the purpose of C. 3.1. of the the Groups principal auditors to provide such services without going to Code as well as fulfilling the SEC criteria.
tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed US$250,000 then the chairman of the Audit committee must approve the engagement.
74 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2004 financial statements The Audit committee has reviewed and discussed with management the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
We have discussed with the external auditors the matters described in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant Auditing Standard No.
90, Audit committee communications, and in the UK Statement of Auditing Standard No 610, Reporting to those charged with Governance SAS 610, including their judgements regarding the quality of the Groups accounting principles and underlying estimates.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and received and reviewed their written disclosures, as required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees and SAS 610.
Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the committee has recommended to the board of directors that the financial statements referred to above be included in this Annual report.
Sir Richard Giordano Chairman Sir David Clementi Andrew F J Gould Lord Kerr David L Mayhew Report of the Nominations committee The Nominations committee is pleased to present the report of its activities, which cover a period of considerable change in composition of the board.
A number of long standing non executive directors will have retired over the period 2004 5, including Lord Tugendhat, Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and John Morschel.
The recruitment, with input from an external search agency, of replacements with appropriate skills and experience has been the main priority of the committee.
Richard Goodmanson joined the board on 1 December 2004 and Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox on 1 February 2005.
Each is an independent director who brings an experience profile which will ensure that the overall quality of the board is maintained.
Apart from making a general overview of the composition of the board, the committee members have been directly involved in the assessment of all individuals considered for appointment.
As part of his annual performance assessment of individual directors, Paul Skinner, who is chairman of the Nominations committee, has reviewed the time committed to Group business and confirmed this to be appropriate in each case.
Paul Skinner Chairman Sir Richard Giordano David L Mayhew John Morschel Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
