Corporate Governance Rotork 19 Annual Report 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Set out within this section is a commentary Internal control The processes that are used by the Board to on how the Company applies the main and The Company has during the year operated review the effectiveness of this system of supporting principles of the Combined Code procedures necessary to comply with the internal control include the following: on Corporate Governance July 2003 the guidance issued in the Turnbull Report, Code.
Specific disclosures required within and by reporting in accordance with that During the year the Audit Committee: the provisions of the Code are also made guidance.
Monitors and reviews the effectiveness The Board has ultimate responsibility for the of internal audit activities: Code Compliance Statement Companys system of internal control and is Reviews and monitors external auditor GE Malcolm who retires on 8 April 2005 required to set appropriate policies and to independence and objectivity and the has a two year notice period from the review its effectiveness.
The role of effectiveness of the audit process: Company contained in his service contract.
management is to implement Board policies.
Considers reports from management, All other serving executive directors have one internal and external audit on the system year notice service contracts.
Following the The system of internal control is designed of internal financial control and any appointment of IG King, currently there are to reduce but cannot eliminate the risks of material control weaknesses: three independent non-executives on the failure to meet business objectives.
Internal Receives reports on Health and Safety and Board.
However, during the year under review control therefore can only provide reasonable environmental issues: given that under the Code it is implied that a but not absolute assurance in meeting such Discusses with management the range Chairman cannot be considered independent business objectives or against material of actions taken on problem areas for the then the composition of the Audit and misstatement or loss.
business identified by Board members or Remuneration Committees was non-compliant in the internal and external audit reports.
in that one of its members was the Chairman A continuous process for identifying, evaluating of the Board and the Nomination Committee and managing the significant risks faced by Additionally: was non-compliant as a majority of its the Company continued to be applied and members were not independent.
As Rotork developed during the year under review and The Board receives copies of the minutes p. l. c. is considered a large Company by the operated up to the date of approval of the of all Audit Committee meetings: Code it is recognised that for full compliance, annual report and accounts.
Senior managers The Board reviews the role of insurances a further independent non-executive would with responsibility across all functions in managing risk across the Group: need to be appointed so that half the Board participate in the risk management process The Board regularly receives written and excluding the Chairman comprised nonthat identifies and evaluates the key risks oral reports from management on all executive directors.
The appointment of including social and environmental facing the aspects of production, operations, financial IG King is considered by the Board to be a Companys businesses.
Their deliberations are and risk management matters.
significant step towards full compliance in reported regularly to the Audit Committee and respect of the relevant Code provision, Board.
This process is based on senior managers Prior to the year end the full Board following concerning Board composition, in addition detailed knowledge and understanding of discussion at the Audit Committee formally to facilitating full compliance for Committee key risks within and external to the business reviews the effectiveness of the Groups membership.
As explained later in this report based on formal management information system of internal control.
the Board has developed a formal process for and reports and their interaction and daily performance evaluation which will be fully dealings with those reporting directly to The Board implemented during 2005.
Subject to the them, their colleagues and external parties.
The Board currently has nine members matters referred to in this paragraph the Internal financial audits are undertaken on a comprising the Chairman, who is nonCompany considers that it has throughout the regular basis by a selected group of accountants executive and whom the Board considers year complied with the provisions of the Code.
drawn from head office, across the divisional to be independent, the three independent businesses and geographic centres.
All these non-executive directors as defined by the accountants have received relevant and specific Code, and five executive directors, one of training in internal audit, best practice and whom as referred to above retires on 8 April control procedures.
On appointment directors receive a further embed internal control and risk suitable and tailored induction.
There is a management in the operations of the business clear division of responsibility approved by and to further enhance and add to the relevant the Board in writing between the Chairman, processes including consideration of social RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, and environmental risks.
WH Whiteley, that ensures that there is a 20 Rotork Corporate Governance Annual Report 2004 continued balance of power and authority between Annual Report and financial statements and Appointments to the Board the running of the Board and the executive announcements of final and interim results, The Nomination Committees four members responsibility for the running of the ensuring sound internal control and risk during the year under review were RC Companys business.
JW Matthews is the management, executive director remuneration, Lockwood who chairs the committee, Senior Independent non-executive Director.
corporate governance matters including Board JW Matthews, A Walker and WH Whiteley.
and Committee performance appraisals, Board The Committee meets regularly to undertake The full Board had nine meetings spread and Committee membership.
The Board its duties in relation to succession planning appropriately over the course of the year regularly considers and discusses future strategy, and in recommending specific appointments under review.
During the year RC Lockwood, following submissions by management, at to the Board.
During the year the Committee JW Matthews, A Walker, WH Whiteley, Board meetings and separate strategy meetings.
undertook a search for an additional RE Slater and GE Malcolm attended every The non-executive directors constructively independent non-executive director with Board meeting.
RH Arnold attended six Board challenge and help develop proposals on recent and relevant financial experience meetings in person and two by video-link for strategy at those meetings.
The decisions culminating in the appointment to the Board part of the meeting.
During the year Board which are left to management are all those of IG King who was introduced through an meetings are scheduled at manufacturing related to the successful operation and external consultant.
Prior to the appointment sites other than the Companys headquarters management of the Companys business of IG King the Nomination Committee in Bath.
This allows in particular non-executive and in implementing the commercial strategy considered a range of suitable candidates directors to meet management at these sites within the limits set by the Board annually making use of external search consultants and receive presentations from them.
During for overall operational budgets and capital and other contacts.
A short list of those the year under review the full Board visited expenditure.
available candidates considered most suitable and held Board meetings at the Rotork Controls when compared with the criteria drawn up Inc. manufacturing plant in Rochester, New The Chairman ensures that meetings of nonby the Committee, which included recent York State and the Exeeco Limited facility in executives without the executives present are and relevant financial experience, were then Leeds, England.
The Company maintains appropriate interviewed by the Committee.
Following directors and officers insurance cover.
further consideration by the Committee, The Chairman ensures through the Company and meetings with all the executive directors, Secretary that the Board Agenda and all Performance evaluation IG King was recommended to the Board by relevant information is provided to the Board The Board has during the year under review the Committee.
IG King has undertaken to sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The developed a formal process for performance the Company that he will have sufficient time Chairman and Company Secretary discuss evaluation of the Board, its Committees and to meet what is expected of him as set out in the Agenda ahead of every meeting.
At individual directors which will be fully his letter of appointment.
meetings the Chairman ensures that all implemented during 2005.
The Chairman directors are able to make an effective will during the evaluation consult individually The Committee also recommended to the contribution throughout meetings and every with all directors addressing a consistent set Board GM Ogdens appointment as an director is encouraged to participate and of pre notified matters covering Board, executive director.
In making the appointment provide opinions for each Agenda item.
The Board Committees and individual directors the Board considered the balance of skills, Chairman always seeks to achieve unanimous effectiveness.
The collective results of these knowledge and experience on the Board.
decisions of the Board following due discussion structured dialogues will be reviewed by the GM Ogdens appointment ensures that of Agenda items.
The Schedule of Reserved Chairman, consulting with others as appropriate.
following the retirement of GE Malcolm, Matters details those matters specifically An overall summary of the evaluation results an executive director with not only senior reserved for Board decision.
The types of will be tabled at an appropriate Board meeting.
management experience but also engineering decision which are reserved for the Board The effectiveness of the evaluation process and product development expertise, relate to matters which cannot or the Board will then be assessed and form the basis for particularly in relation to electric and other considers should not be delegated to the subsequent development action.
The Senior types of actuator, is a member of the Board.
Chief Executive and executive management.
Independent Director has led the performance They include approval of Group commercial evaluation of the Chairman through The Nomination Committee met formally strategy and succession planning, approval of consultation with all the directors followed twice during the year.
RC Lockwood, Group annual operating and capital expenditure by a meeting he chaired with the other nonJW Matthews and WH Whiteley attended budgets and recommendations for payment executive directors to consider all responses both meetings of the Committee.
A Walker of final dividend and decisions for interim received and at which the performance of attended one meeting.
dividends and dividend policy, approval of the the Chairman was formally evaluated.
Corporate Governance Rotork 21 continued Annual Report 2004 Following the appointment of the third year.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit after it has been dealt with on a show of independent non-executive director, IG King, Committee is available to view on the hands.
Prior to the AGM the Company the Nomination Committee now comprises Companys website in the Investors section.
Secretary reports to the Board on the results three independent directors, the Chief Executive of the proxy returns and on the comments and Chairman.
A majority of the members All of the members of the Audit Committee, and analysis undertaken by voting agencies.
of the Nomination Committee are therefore during the year under review being, RC independent non-executive directors.
The Terms Lockwood, JW Matthews and A Walker of Reference of the Nomination Committee attended all three meetings of the Committee.
can be accessed on the Companys website RE Slater and WH Whiteley attended all three in the Investors section.
meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The internal audit function is undertaken by Audit Committee members of the Companys finance department The Audit Committee is now comprised of who all have other distinct posts.
The Group the three independent non-executive directors, Finance Director is also Head of Internal Audit.
JW Matthews Chairman, A Walker and IG King.
It usually meets three times a year Remuneration Committee to review published financial information, the The work of the Remuneration Committee effectiveness of both external and internal is described in the Remuneration Report on audit and internal financial and other controls.
RC Lockwood, JW Matthews The Finance Director, Chief Executive and the and A Walker attended the four formal external auditors normally attend meetings meetings of the Remuneration Committee and there is a meeting at least once a year during the year under review.
The Chief between the Committee and the external Executive was invited to attend the four auditors at which management is not present.
formal meetings for parts of those meetings.
During the year under review and prior to the appointment of IG King, RC Lockwood was Relations with shareholders a member of the Committee.
He stood down Communication with shareholders is given following IG Kings appointment.
All members of the Board receive copies of all analysts reports of which the The matter of auditor independence is Company is made aware.
The Chief Executive considered by the Committee.
The auditor reports at each Board meeting upon his does provide non-audit services.
Auditor meetings with analysts, fund managers and objectivity and independence is safeguarded shareholders.
The Company Secretary has by ensuring all non-audit services are managed recently written on behalf of the Board to and directed by the Company executive the Companys major shareholders offering management and by ensuring disclosure meetings with the non-executive directors of non-audit fees to the Audit Committee.
and requesting shareholders to confirm they For significant general consulting projects are content with current Board level contact more than one service delivery provider is with the Company and communication to considered.
Categories of non-audit work non-executives.
provided by the auditor with fees are set out in note 5.
Within the Audit Committees Individual shareholders have an opportunity Terms of Reference is a requirement for the to put questions to the Chairman at the AGM Committee to assess the independence of and individual shareholder enquiries are dealt the external auditor ensuring key partners with throughout the year by the Company are rotated at appropriate intervals and to Secretarys department.
For the AGM all proxy ensure that the provision of non-audit votes are counted and except in the event of services does not impair the external auditors a poll being called at the AGM the balance independence or objectivity.
This assessment for and against the resolution and the number was undertaken by the Committee during the of abstentions is displayed for shareholders
