30 SABMiller plc Corporate governance Introduction and sources directors nominated by Altria.
The agreement also provided Corporate governance is essential to protect the interests of that, unless otherwise agreed with Altria, the number of stakeholders in SABMiller.
We have put in place a corporate directors on the board would be reduced to a maximum of governance structure that is appropriate for your company in 11 within two years of completion of the Miller transaction the industry in which it operates.
The company believes that this board The company is committed to meeting the standards of structure has been effective in managing the company to the good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code as benefit of all its shareholders.
appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the 2.
The Combined Code required that a majority of non-executive Turnbull Report on Internal Control and appropriate best practice directors should be independent of management and free that has evolved from guidance issued by leading institutional from any business or other relationship which could materially investor bodies.
In light of its substantial operating presence in interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the United States, the company is also taking steps over time to During the year under review four out of 11 non-executive become materially compliant with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 directors were considered to be independent according to and related regulation.
the applicable definitions in all the jurisdictions in which the During the year, reports by Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert company operates.
The relationship agreement with Altria Smith resulted in a revision of the Combined Code referred to as made it difficult for the company to comply with this aspect the new Combined Code.
This came into effect on 1 November of the Combined Code.
2003 and applies to the company from 1 April 2004.
The Combined Code required that remuneration committees describes the steps that are being taken by the company to bring should consist exclusively of non-executive directors who it into compliance with the new Combined Code.
are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Activity highlights for the coming year the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the Steps are being taken to expand the independent constituents period under review Lord Renwick and Mr Kahn served on of the board and its committees: this committee.
Altria Group, Inc. Altria is assisting the process towards compliance with the new Combined Code, particularly with The board regard to the structure of the board Composition A new independent non-executive director is being appointed In order to assess independence according to guidelines The remuneration committee is being restructured to described in the new Combined Code, the company has strengthen its independence implemented a formal Independence and Conflicts review The audit committee is leading processes towards material process.
Based on questionnaires returned by directors, the compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act board considers the status of each non-executive director to be Risk monitoring and review activities are receiving renewed focus as follows: from management and the board.
JM Kahn chairman Not independent.
Mr Kahn is a former Further details on these initiatives are included in this report.
chief executive officer of the company and has served continuously on the board, and the board of the companys Combined Code compliance statement predecessor, since 1981.
However, technically, he has only The company has complied with the overwhelming majority of the served as a director of the company since 1999, the year of provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code during the listing in the UK.
The provisions with which the company has GC Bible Not independent.
Mr Bible is an Altria nominee not complied, the period of non-compliance, and the reasons for to the board.
non-compliance are set out below.
Mr Camilleri is an Altria 1.
The Combined Code required that there should be a balance nominee to the board, but will retire from the board at the of executive and non-executive directors on the board.
For the period under review, the board was made up of NJ fide Lisi Not independent.
Ms fide Lisi is an Altria nominee 13 directors, of whom two were executive directors.
result of the companys acquisition of Miller Brewing Company Lord Fellowes Independent.
Lord Fellowes is the senior from Altria in 2002, Altria became the largest shareholder in independent non-executive director on the board.
the company, and Altria entered into a relationship agreement Ning Gaoning Not independent.
Mr Ning is chairman of with the company which determined, amongst other things, China Resources Enterprise, Ltd which has a 51% stake in the size and composition of the board.
The agreement limited China Resources Breweries, Ltd, a joint venture company in the size of the board to a maximum of 13 directors, of whom which the company indirectly holds the remaining 49%.
two were required to be executive directors, up to three were MJ Levett Not independent.
Mr Levett represents Old required to be directors nominated by Altria and up to eight Mutual plc, a major shareholder in the company, but will retire were required to be non-executive directors other than those from the board at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
SABMiller plc 31 PJ Manser Independent.
The board is delighted to announce that Mr Manzoni has agreed MQ Morland Independent.
to serve the company as a non-executive director from MC Ramaphosa Independent.
Mr Ramaphosa is chairman 1 August 2004.
Mr Manzoni presently holds an executive of Johnnic Holdings Ltd, the principal shareholder of Durban directorship at BP plc where he is chief executive, refining and Add-ventures Pty Ltd, which in turn owns 40% of Tsogo Sun marketing.
This will be his first non-executive position.
Mr Manzoni KwaZulu Natal Pty Ltd. 49% of the issued share capital of is considered to be independent in all jurisdictions in which the Tsogo Sun KwaZulu Natal Pty Ltd is indirectly owned by the company operates.
The board looks forward to welcoming him to company.
The company is of the belief that this minor the company.
He is expected to make a significant contribution.
relationship does and will not affect Mr Ramaphosas independence in the context of his work on the board.
Board meetings and attendance Lord Renwick of Clifton Not independent.
Lord Renwick is The table below shows director attendance at board meetings vice-chairman, Investment Banking, JP Morgan Europe, one through the year.
It should be noted that Mr Camilleri had a leave of the investment banks which has, in the past three years, of absence from formal board meetings in view of the pressures had a material relationship with the company.
of business at Altria, where he is chairman and chief executive The new Combined Code requires that at least half the board, officer.
Mr Camilleri was able to make a full contribution outside excluding the chairman, should be independent.
To strike a formal meetings through his colleagues and the groups chief balance between the companys contractual obligations to Altria, executive.
Mr Ning was unable to attend board meetings at the Combined Code compliance, and a board structure best suited beginning of the year due to difficulties in travelling caused by to achieving shareholder value, the company has reached SARS in South East Asia.
All three of the Altria nominees waived agreement with Altria in terms of which Altria, in a spirit of support their fees during the period under review.
for the companys needs, has agreed that for the foreseeable The company secretary acts as secretary to the board and future the size of the board should not be reduced to a maximum its committees and attends all meetings, unless his deputy is of 11, as would have been required in terms of the relationship required to stand in for him in his absence.
agreement described above, and has confirmed that, following Mr Camilleris retirement from the board, Altria will not, for the time Operation of the board being, exercise its right to nominate a third director to the board.
The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines The company considers that the composition of independent and investment policy, agrees on performance criteria and delegates non-independent directors will be appropriate for the companys to management the detailed planning and implementation of that needs, with the changes set out in the following paragraphs.
policy in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The board Mr Levett will retire from the board at the forthcoming AGM and monitors compliance with policies and achievement against a newly recruited independent director, Mr John Manzoni, will take objectives, by holding management accountable for its activity office from 1 August 2004, thereby increasing the number of through monthly and quarterly performance reporting and independent directors to five.
Mr Levett has made a significant budget updates.
contribution of expertise to the board and the audit committee and has served the group with distinction over 20 years of service, Matters reserved for the board first on the South African and then on the UK board.
He will be There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively greatly missed.
These include strategic plans, policy on social Name of director 9 April 03 21 May 03 30 July 03 4 Sept 03 24 Oct 03 19 Nov 03 20 Feb 04 EAG Mackay MI Wyman JM Kahn GC Bible LC Camilleri NJ fide Lisi Lord Fellowes MJ Levett PJ Manser MQ Morland Ning Gaoning MC Ramaphosa Lord Renwick of Clifton 32 SABMiller plc Corporate governance and environmental responsibility and the approval of financial Lord Fellowes serves as an additional contact point for statements, major capital expenditure, and material acquisitions, shareholders should they feel that their concerns are not being disposals and agreements.
Appropriate structures for those addressed through the normal channels.
Lord Fellowes is, authorities delegated to management and board committees are furthermore, available to fellow non-executive directors, either in place, accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters of Each standing board committee has specific written terms of concern in a forum that does not include executive directors or reference issued by the board and adopted in committee.
the management of the company.
In the year under review the These are available under the heading Our Company Corporate chairman hosted two meetings of non-executive directors.
It is Governance Board and Committees on the companys website.
the intention of Lord Fellowes to lead this communication through All chairs of committees report orally on the proceedings of their the scheduling of at least one meeting of non-executive directors committees at the next meeting of the board and minutes of during the year ahead without the presence of the chairman.
committee meetings are provided to the board.
Lord Fellowes is chairman of the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC.
He also serves on the audit, The roles of executive and non-executive directors remuneration, and nomination committees and as such is well The executive directors have responsibility for proposing strategy placed to influence the governance of the company and meet the and for making and implementing operational decisions on expectations attaching to the role of senior independent director.
Non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors, Retirement of directors contributing to the formulation of policy and decision-making All directors are subject to retirement and re-election by through their knowledge and experience of other businesses and shareholders every three years.
In addition, all directors are sectors.
All directors bring an independent judgement to the subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after issues of strategy, performance, and resources, including key their initial appointment.
The names of directors submitted for appointments and standards of conduct.
election or re-election are accompanied by brief biographical details to enable shareholders to make an informed decision in Information and training respect of their election.
The re-appointment of non-executive The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely directors is not automatic.
In general, the board will ask a director information which enables them to discharge their responsibilities.
reaching the age of 70 years to stand for re-election annually or All directors have access to the advice of the company secretary to retire, as the case may be.
and independent professional advice is available to directors in Looking to the future, the company will be implementing a appropriate circumstances, at the companys expense.
The policy whereby directors who have served for a period of nine company secretary is responsible for advising the chairman on years on the board of SABMiller plc will be subject to retirement matters of corporate governance.
and re-election each year thereafter.
Following the appointment of new directors to the board, an induction programme is arranged which involves industry-specific The audit committee training including visits to the groups businesses and meetings Composition with senior management as appropriate.
In addition to exposure During the year under review the audit committee was chaired by to operations, new directors are given exposure to internal Mr Manser, an independent non-executive director.
Mr Manser controls at business unit level.
When such new appointments are was first appointed to the committee on 1 June 2001 and chaired made, the company also arranges for major shareholders to have his first meeting of the committee on 28 May 2002.
Mr Manser the opportunity to meet new appointees.
The company is also qualified as a chartered accountant in 1964 and was made a committed to continuing director development in order that they Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 1976.
He has may build on their expertise and develop an ever more detailed held the following senior positions: managing director of Jardine understanding of the business and the markets in which the Fleming Hong Kong, managing director of the Save and Prosper company operates.
Group, group chief executive of Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd. Chairman and senior independent director Lord Fellowes, Mr Levett, Mr Morland and Ms fide Lisi served The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate with on the committee throughout the year.
Mr Levett and Mr Morland responsibilities divided between them.
This separation of have been members of the committee from its first meeting on responsibilities has been formalised in their respective letters of 13 April 1999.
Lord Fellowes was appointed to the committee appointment, approved by the board.
The only change to the on 1 June 2001 and Ms fide Lisi was appointed on 4 September chairmans external commitments during the year was his 2002.
Apart from the chairman, those members of the committee appointment to the board of Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd as a with financial experience and expertise are Mr Levett actuary, non-executive director.
This took place in July 2003. and Ms fide Lisi accountant.
The senior independent director is Lord Fellowes.
The new Combined Code requires that the audit committee SABMiller plc 33 be made up entirely of independent non-executive directors.
As The nomination committee the relationship agreement with Altria requires that a nominee of Composition Altria serve as a member of the audit committee, full compliance During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Lord will not be feasible.
The other members of the committee were Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes and Mr Morland.
Mr Manser was appointed to the Meetings and attendance committee, following the meeting on 9 April 2003.
The committee met three times during the year and an associated In addition to requiring that a majority of members of reporting committee met on a further two occasions.
The external nomination committee should be independent non-executive auditors, chief executive and the chief financial officer were in directors, the new Combined Code also recommends that the attendance at each meeting by invitation.
Other members of the committee be chaired by either the chairman of the board, or an management team attended as required.
Executive attendees independent non-executive director.
The majority of the members were excused for periodic discussions with the external auditors.
of the committee are independent.
The board regards Lord The following table shows member attendance at audit Renwick to be independent in character and judgement and committee meetings through the year.
considers that he brings key attributes to the role of nomination committee chairman.
Name of director 20 May 03 18 Nov 03 19 Feb 04 NJ fide Lisi Meetings and attendance Lord Fellowes The committee meets as required by the board or on requisition MJ Levett by a member or the chairman.
During the year under review the PJ Manser chairman committee met twice 9 April 2003 and 20 February 2004 and all MQ Morland members attended both meetings.
Terms of reference Terms of reference The full terms of reference of the audit committee are available The full terms of reference of the nomination committee are under the heading Our Business Corporate Governance Board available under the heading Our Business Corporate and Committees on the companys website.
These were Governance Board and Committees on the companys website.
extended and revised in line with new regulatory requirements in In summary, the committee is empowered to consider the February 2004.
In summary, the committee is charged with composition of the board and its committees.
It is asked to providing an independent oversight of the companys systems of consider the retirement, appointment, and replacement of internal control and financial reporting processes, including the directors, and is required to make appropriate recommendations review of the annual and interim financial statements before they to the board.
are submitted to the board for final approval.
It has the power to examine any financial, operating, and strategic matter in, and Operation of the committee relating to, the group.
This includes reviewing internal control The nomination committee continued to evaluate the balance procedures, accounting policies, compliance and regulatory of skills, knowledge and experience of the board.
Appropriate matters, reviewing and approving the appointment of the external succession plans for the executive directors and senior auditors and other related issues.
management were also kept under review.
The proposed re-election of Mr Wyman, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Operation of the committee Mr Kahn at this years AGM is consistent with the results of the During the year the audit committee has been involved in ensuring committees review and the boards policy on board development.
that appropriate controls and processes are in place to identify all significant business, strategic, statutory and financial risks and Summary of appointment procedures that these risks are being effectively monitored and managed.
Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee uses The committee has also been concerned with ensuring that the services of external consultants in order to identify suitable appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance candidates for the board to consider.
Candidates are short-listed are being met.
It has also advised the board on issues relating for consideration by the nomination committee on the basis of to the application of accounting standards as this relates to their relevant corporate or professional skills and experience.
Executive directors are considered for appointment to the The audit committee has access to reports of the proceedings board on the basis of their experience, skill and ability to of the divisional audit committees and to subsidiary internal audit contribute to the group.
practitioners: the last having access to both central management These policies were followed in the appointment of and to the company's audit committee.
Furthermore, the recently Mr Manzoni.
The terms and conditions of appointment of appointed chief internal auditor has direct access to the audit non-executive directors are available from the company committee chairman.
More detail can be found in the section on secretary on request.
Risk Management and Internal Control.
34 SABMiller plc Corporate governance Board, committee, and director performance evaluation below the companys executive committee, the companys The chairman conducts annual appraisals of the performance management consults Hay Consulting, Ernst & Young and Towers of each of the non-executive directors, with input from the chief Perrin on a project basis.
executive and the chief financial officer.
These are reviewed More detail of the companys remuneration policy can be with the senior independent director and the company secretary.
found in the remuneration report.
The senior independent director reviews the performance of the chairman of the board.
Thereafter, where appropriate, individual The corporate accountability and risk assurance directors may be interviewed.
The results are reported to the committee CARAC nomination committee and the board.
Composition Lord Fellowes chaired the committee throughout the year.
The remuneration committee Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, Mr Manser, Mr Ramaphosa and Composition Mr Wyman served as members.
Additionally, the director The remuneration committee has been chaired by Lord Renwick, of corporate affairs, Ms Clark, met regularly with the chairman while the other members were Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes, of CARAC to discuss implementation and planning issues.
During the year under review the There are no regulatory or institutional investor requirements as committee had a majority of independent non-executive directors.
to the composition of this committee.
Its membership will remain The company notes that the new Combined Code requires the same for the foreseeable future.
that all members of the committee be independent non-executive directors.
In order to take the company closer to compliance in Meetings and attendance this respect, Mr Kahn will be stepping down from the committee All members attended the two meetings of the committee held and Mr Morland will take over from Lord Renwick as chairman.
during the year 4 September 2003 and 19 February 2004.
The board considers that Lord Renwick brings particular skills and experience to the work of the remuneration committee.
Terms of reference The full terms of reference of CARAC are available under the Meetings and attendance heading Our Business Corporate Governance Board and The committee met three times during the year 20 May 2003, Committees on the companys website.
In summary, the 18 November 2003 and 19 February 2004.
All members of the objective of CARAC is to assist the board in its discharge of its committee were present at each of the meetings.
responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability.
More detail of the committees activities can be found in the companys Terms of reference separate corporate accountability report.
The full terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available under the heading Our Business Corporate Operation of the committee Governance Board and Committees on the companys website.
During the year CARAC continued to monitor progress on In summary, the committee is empowered by the board to set corporate accountability through quarterly reports from across the short, medium and long-term remuneration for the executive group, with areas of particular risk being the focus of separate directors.
More generally, the committee is responsible for the presentations.
The committee reviewed evolving stakeholder assessment and approval of a broad remuneration strategy for expectations of business and particularly perceptions of the the group and for the operation of the companys share-based companys activities, strengthening the CSR strategy accordingly.
This includes determination of short and longterm incentives for executives across the group.
Relationship with auditors  were appointed as auditors of Operation of the committee the company on 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming During the year the remuneration committee has implemented its  LLP in 2003. strategy of ensuring that employees and executives are rewarded During the year the audit committee has kept under review its for their contribution to the groups operating and financial policy on, and the independence and objectivity of, the external performance at levels which take account of industry, market and auditors.
The committee examines the processes for and the country benchmarks.
In order to promote goal congruence, share nature and quantum of non-audit projects awarded to the incentives are considered to be critical elements of executive auditors for compliance with the committees policies.
committee is satisfied that the auditors have established internal To assist the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities to the policies and procedures to ensure services are not provided to board, the company engages the services of consultants, Mercer the company or related companies that would impair auditor Human Resource Consulting Mercers, and confirms that independence.
As a reassurance, the auditors are required to Mercers has no other connection with the company.
At levels provide summary details highlighting relationships which the SABMiller plc 35 auditors consider might have a bearing on their independence the global equity markets in subsequent one-on-one meetings and objectivity.
The auditors are also required to provide written with investors.
Occasional business site visits are also arranged.
confirmation of independence and an assurance that all Dialogue on socially responsible investment SRI is handled by requirements for partner rotation have been met.
The audit the corporate accountability manager, in the corporate affairs committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, the department, who undertakes focused briefings with interested auditors have remained independent and objective in their investors and stakeholders.
assessment of the companys finances.
In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in The committee is also satisfied that internal company policies which executives interact with shareholders, the chairman has, aimed at ensuring auditor independence have been complied independently, initiated formal contact with all shareholders or with during the period under review.
Furthermore the committee their representatives holding in excess of 1% of the issued share has approved the formalisation and extension of these policies capital of the company.
The purpose of this contact is to enable to ensure that auditor independence is maintained while, at the chairman to address any queries shareholders may have the same time, ensuring that the company benefits from the regarding the governance of the company or non-operational cumulative knowledge and experience of the principal auditor.
It is also, more broadly, designed In support of this, the audit committee is committed to managing to give the board a greater awareness of shareholder concerns.
the nature and amount of non-audit services provided by the Alongside the chairman the senior independent director will auditor to the company.
This policy became effective on also be available to communicate with shareholders and views 1 April 2004.
The committee is considering a formal system for expressed will be communicated by the chairman to the board.
the review of auditor effectiveness in conjunction with the All non-executive directors of the company have been invited assessment of independence.
Compliance worldwide will be to participate in this process.
monitored by means of regular reports to the audit committee.
All non-audit services are subject to appropriate management Risk management and internal control oversight and, where the size of assignment warrants, a formal tender process is followed.
Responsibilities Please refer to note 4 to the financial statements where a full breakdown of non-audit services provided to the company by the Board of directors auditors for the year under review can be found.
In this section, the directors report on their review of the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The groups existing internal controls and risk management During the year the company has continued to have dialogue processes are subject to regular review and adaptations, to the with institutional shareholders.
It also encouraged all shareholders extent necessary to ensure full compliance with the requirements to attend the AGM, at which free samples of the companys of the Turnbull Report for the reporting period, and to deliver leading beer brands were on offer to all attending shareholders improved value to the operating businesses.
Beyond this the company paid considerable In response to significant changes such as the acquisition care and attention to ensuring that the AGM was once again an and integration of Miller Brewing Company and the further informative, productive and positive experience for all involved.
development of the UK corporate centre, a programme has The company considers the AGM key in providing shareholders commenced to enhance the groups risk management with the opportunity to ask questions of the board and chairmen framework, and related systems of internal control, appropriate of all the board committees.
Prior to the meeting all proxy to the evolving structure and needs of the group.
votes were counted and displayed on screen after the voting The directors are responsible for the groups systems of process.
The results were communicated directly to the top internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems 20 shareholders after the meeting and published on the of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Regulatory News Service and the companys website.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide Alongside the facilities offered by the company secretary's reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material department, the company maintains a dedicated investor relations misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has taken into function.
Reporting to the director of corporate affairs, the investor account the results of all of the work carried out by internal and relations team builds and maintains long-term relationships with external auditors to audit and review the activities of the group.
institutional investors and analysts on the basis of fundamental There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, business value driver analysis.
Extensive one-on-one contact as managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks well as small group events are the cornerstones of this activity.
faced by individual group companies and by the group as a In partnership with our corporate and divisional management whole.
This process has been in place for the year under review teams, investor relations gives presentations on regional business up to and including the date of approval of the annual report outlooks and strives to propagate understanding thereof across and accounts.
36 SABMiller plc Corporate governance In accordance with Turnbull guidance, reviews on the Implementation of management processes to manage the effectiveness of internal control were carried out in May and significant risks to an acceptable level November 2003 and in May 2004 by the board.
Ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal external environmental factors that may change the risk profile.
Board and executive committees In addition to excoms twice yearly reports to the board on key The executive committee excom, which is chaired by the chief risks, there is a process of regular reporting to the board through executive, and comprises senior SABMiller plc management, has the audit committee on the status of the risk management specific responsibility for the system of risk management.
Excom process and internal control systems, and any evolving risk reviews the risk reports of the group and the business units twice issues or internal control breakdowns that may have occurred.
yearly, reporting to the board on key risks and their associated The CARAC also reports regularly to the board on social, mitigating actions.
environmental, ethical and prospective risk issues.
The audit committee deals primarily with operational and Key reports include those that identify, rank, monitor and financial matters, including breakdowns of internal controls, measure strategic, operational and financial risks in each division reputation, insurance and loss prevention, litigation and listing and on a group basis, on an annual cycle.
These are supplemented compliance issues.
by reports on internal control processes and breakdowns, along The CARAC deals with business ethics, values and principles, with reviews of the structure and effectiveness of internal audit plus stakeholder accountability, including specialist areas such functions.
These reports were co-ordinated and evaluated with as employee, social, health, safety and environmental issues, advice from external consultants in the year under review.
as well as impacts on product and service quality and nonKey risks, with which the board has been concerned, and exclusively with emerging and prospective risk such as alcohol reviewed, during the year, include: abuse issues.
Miller turnaround execution risk Industry consolidation implications Business units Core brand sustainability Responsibilities and processes are to a large extent replicated Trends in anti-alcohol sentiment at business unit level via the existence of divisional or company HIV AIDS in Africa audit committees and in some cases corporate accountability committees.
Each local audit committee has formal terms of Internal control reference that include defined monitoring roles in relation to both The groups systems of internal control are designed and risk management processes and internal audit activities.
operated to support the identification and management of risks affecting the group and the business environment in which it Corporate functions operates.
As such, they are subject to continuous review as In line with the changes outlined above and as part of the circumstances change and new risks emerge.
continuing enhancement programme, the group has appointed Key features of the systems of internal control comprise: a head of internal audit and intends to strengthen central Written policies and procedures within each business, management resource in risk management.
This will improve which are detailed in policy manuals, clearly defined group-wide co-ordination and promote best practice in each of lines of accountability and delegation of authority, and these specialist areas.
comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets Risk management Group treasury operations control and reduce exposure to The focus of risk management in the group is to support the interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and currency transaction delivery of business objectives by identifying, assessing, managing risks and co-ordinate the activities of group companies in this and monitoring risk across the group.
Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures in a continuous process of developing and enhancing its are reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf comprehensive risk and control procedures to improve the of the board mechanisms for identifying and monitoring risks.
Minimisation of operating risk by ensuring that the appropriate Key features of the groups system of risk management infrastructure, controls, systems and people are in place comprise: throughout the businesses.
Key policies employed in Group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values managing operating risk involve segregation of duties, Clear business objectives and business principles transaction authorisation, monitoring, financial and Established risk policy managerial reporting An ongoing process for identification and evaluation of Business resumption planning, including preventative and significant risk that may prevent achievement of business contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase objectives of catastrophe insurance to ensure ongoing product and service delivery under adverse conditions.
SABMiller plc 37 Assurance Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on their effectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, control self-assessment, internal audit reviews and testing of certain aspects of the internal financial control systems by the external auditors during the course of their statutory examinations.
The groups various divisional audit committees consider the results of these reviews on a regular basis, to confirm the appropriateness and satisfactory nature of these systems, while ensuring that breakdowns involving material loss, if any, together with remedial actions, have been reported to the appropriate boards of directors.
At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing directors and finance directors of all the groups operations are required to submit formal letters of representation on controls, compliance and notification of ongoing or potential operational, financial and legal risks or claims.
These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee.
Directors, executives, key managers and professionals also make annual written declarations of interests and are obliged to report without delay any potential or actual conflicts of interest which may arise.
Internal audit functions operated in all of the groups principal business units in the period under review, reporting to local management and accountable to local audit committees.
The internal audit functions are performed either by teams of appropriate, qualified and experienced employees, or through the engagement of external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms with equivalent access.
These structures are reviewed for effectiveness with external consultants at least once a year.
The audit committee is satisfied that adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist in the group.
The May 2003 and November 2003 audit committee meetings reviewed internal audit reports on the major business units.
Reports on these issues were made to the board.
Following the appointment of a head of internal audit during the year, proposals for a centrally-led strategy for internal audit have been agreed by the audit committee.
Whistleblowing policy The audit committee has recently approved whistleblowing arrangements for roll-out to group companies to update processes in place as well as to fill in gaps.
Via this mechanism, staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and in other matters.
Procedures are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
