Corporate Governance Statement The Company and the Group are committed The Board is responsible to shareholders for Secretary to all directors in advance of Board invitation of the Committee, attend meetings to high standards of corporate governance the proper management of the Group.
The members of the Board have except when their own performance or and the Board is accountable to the it is considered appropriate, training is made evaluated the performance of the Board, its remuneration are under review but neither is Companys shareholders for good corporate available to directors and training needs are committees and individual members at a member of the Committee.
This statement describes how assessed as part of the evaluation procedure meetings and also through the completion of is responsible for making recommendations the relevant principles of corporate of the Board referred to below.
A statement of detailed questionnaires which are reviewed to the Board, within agreed terms of governance are applied by the Company.
the directors responsibilities in respect of the and considered by the Chairman.
Further reference, on the Companys framework of Throughout the year the Company has been accounts is set out on page 24.
The Board details are set out under the heading executive remuneration and its cost.
The in compliance with the provisions set out in has formally adopted a schedule of matters Revised Combined Code on page 23.
Committee determines the contract terms, the Combined Code for Corporate specifically reserved to it for decision which is remuneration and other benefits for each of Committees of the Board deal with certain Governance 1998 version appended to the available to shareholders on request to the the executive directors including share specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Secretary at the registered office and which is options, performance related bonus These Committees are the Remuneration also available on the Companys website at schemes, pension rights and compensation The workings of the Board and its Committee, the Audit Committee and the www.
All directors have access to payments.
Remuneration consultants advise Committees Nomination Committee.
Details of all these the advice and services of the Secretary, who the Committee.
The Board itself determines The Board committees are set out below.
Whilst the is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the remuneration of the non-executive The Board currently comprises the nonBoard notes that a number of independent Board procedures are followed and that directors.
The Secretary acts as secretary executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, non-executive directors are members of more applicable rules and regulations are complied to the Committee.
four other executive directors, six than one Board Committee, it is considered with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors independent non-executive directors and Details of the Companys policies on that membership is appropriate in the light of take independent professional advice as another non-executive director.
Following the directors remuneration are given in the the relatively small number of independent required.
The appointment and removal of the Annual General Meeting, if all Resolutions Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31, non-executive directors and the Boards Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
are passed, the Board will comprise the together with further details of the policy that all independent non-executive non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, Remuneration Committee.
The Board meets formally six times a year, directors are given the opportunity to take four other executive directors and five nonreviewing trading performance, ensuring part in the discussions of those Committees.
Audit Committee executive directors, all of whom will be adequate funding, setting and monitoring The Audit Committee is chaired by Professor Remuneration Committee independent.
The roles of the Chairman and strategy, examining major acquisition C J Constable, who has chaired the The Groups Remuneration Committee is the Chief Executive are quite distinct from opportunities and reviewing regular reports to Committee since December 1996.
Its other chaired by Mr L C N Bury, and its other one another and are clearly defined in written shareholders.
In the year under review, all members are the other independent nonmembers are the other independent nonterms of reference for each role adopted by directors in office at the time attended all of executive directors, Mr L C N Bury, who executive directors, Professor C J Constable, the Board.
The directors biographies appear these Board meetings with the exception of joined in December 1996, Mr T C W Ingram Mr T C W Ingram, Mr D H Clayton and on pages 12 and 13.
These demonstrate one director who was unable to attend one of who joined in March 2002, Mr D H Clayton Mr A J Hobson.
Ms T Ingram will join the that the directors have a range of experience the meetings.
The non-executive directors and Mr A J Hobson who both joined on their Committee at its next meeting.
The and are of sufficient calibre to bring have a particular responsibility to ensure that appointment to the Board in June 2004.
Committee meets at least twice a year.
In the independent judgement on issues of strategy, the strategies proposed by the executive Both Mr Ingram and Mr Hobson have recent year under review, the Committee met three performance, resources and standards of directors are fully considered.
To enable the and relevant financial experience.
One member of the Committee was conduct, which is vital to the success of the Board to discharge its duties, all directors Committee meets at least three times a year.
unable to attend one of these meetings.
All directors are subject to re-election receive appropriate and timely information.
Following the retirement of Professor Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by at least every three years.
Briefing papers are distributed by the 1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 21 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report 22 Corporate Governance Statement continued Constable from the Board at the Annual financial year of the Group, the Audit Committee being approved in advance either Relations with shareholders General Meeting of the Company in March Committee has determined that the ratio of by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or Communication with shareholders is given 2005, Mr Hobson, who is a Fellow of the non-audit other than those relating to by the full Audit Committee depending on the high priority.
The Chairmans Statement and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England taxation to audit fees paid to the auditor expected cost of the project.
The Chairman the Chief Executives Review on pages 2 to 7 and Wales, will, if re-elected, chair the should should not exceed 1:1.
The may require that such project is put out to include a detailed review of the business and Committee.
Mr Bury intends to retire from the Committee believes that the Company tender to a number of firms.
future developments in relation to it.
A full Committee at the Annual General Meeting in receives particular benefit from tax advice Annual Report and Accounts is sent to Nomination Committee 2006.
All members in office at the time provided by its auditors given their wide and shareholders.
The Company also has a The Nomination Committee is chaired by the attended all the meetings in the year under detailed knowledge of the Group.
com which contains up Chairman of the Board, Mr M E W Jackson review.
The Committee provides a forum for to date information on Group activities and and consists of the Chairman and the five The Committee is confident that the reporting by the Groups internal and external published financial results.
There is regular independent non-executive directors, Mr L C objectivity and independence of the auditors auditors.
The Group Finance Director and dialogue with individual institutional N Bury, Professor C J Constable, Mr T C W is not impaired in any way by reason of its other executives may, by invitation of the shareholders, as well as presentations to Ingram, Mr D H Clayton and Mr A J Hobson.
The Committee has adopted Committee, attend meetings but the Group analysts after the Companys announcement Ms T Ingram will join the Committee at its controls to ensure that the independence Finance Director is not a member of the of the year-end and half-year results.
The Nomination Committee of the external audit process is not Committee.
The Audit Committee is meets on an ad hoc basis as required but not compromised and that, in the provision of The Board uses the annual general meeting responsible for reviewing half-year and annual less than once a year.
One meeting of the non-audit services, the objectivity and to communicate with private and institutional accounts before their submission to the Committee took place in the year under independence of the external auditors is investors and welcomes their participation.
Board and reviews the effectiveness of review at which all the members of the safeguarded.
These controls include the The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual internal controls.
It advises the Board on the Committee in office at the time were present.
continued monitoring of the independence General Meeting on 3 March 2005 can be appointment of external auditors and on their and effectiveness of the audit process.
The found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 63 The Nomination Committee is responsible for a remuneration both for audit and non-audit scope, fee, performance and independence and 64. number of matters relating to the composition work and discusses the nature, scope and of the external auditor is considered annually of the Board and its committees including Internal control and risk management results of the audit with the external auditors.
by the Audit Committee, together with an proposing candidates for appointment to the The Board is responsible for the operation and The Audit Committee keeps under review the evaluation of whether the external audit Board, having regard to its balance and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal cost effectiveness, independence and should be tendered.
In addition, audit structure and considering issues of controls and risk management.
There is an objectivity of the external auditors.
In addition, partners are rotated every five years and a succession.
Recruitment consultants are used ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and the Audit Committee reviews the formal statement of independence from the to assist in the process.
In the year under managing the significant risks faced by the appointment, remuneration and utilisation of external auditors is received each year.
In review, the Committee, with the assistance of Group.
This process has been in place for the the Groups internal audit service which is relation to the provision of non-audit services, external recruitment consultants, considered year under review and up to the date of currently outsourced to KPMG.
The Secretary executive management has the discretion to the appointment of a number of directors to approval of this report.
It is regularly reviewed acts as secretary to the Committee.
obtain taxation services from the auditors the Board.
The Nomination Committee is also by the Board and complies fully with the The Companys auditors,  without prior reference to the Audit responsible for an annual review of the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems LLP, perform non-audit services for the Group Committee subject to regularly appraising the membership of the Board.
The Secretary acts are designed to meet the Groups particular principally tax advice and due diligence in Audit Committee of the amount and nature of as secretary to the Committee.
needs and the risks to which it is exposed and relation to acquisitions over and above the fees for such services.
Other non-audit by their nature can only provide reasonable but external audit.
The Audit Committee keeps services may be undertaken by the external not absolute assurance against misstatement the ratio of audit to non-audit fees under auditors subject to all projects expected to or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has review and, with effect from the current cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which significant internal control failings and authority to act subject to the reserved powers Statement by the directors on reports its findings to the Board.
The weaknesses, if any and agrees remedial action and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board compliance with the provisions of the processes used by the Audit Committee to on such matters.
The Risk Committee reports and to Group policies and guidelines.
1998 Combined Code review the effectiveness of the system of to the Audit Committee.
Through the work of The Company has been in full compliance Internal audit internal control include discussions with the Audit and Risk Committees, the Board is with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The Group utilises internal audit resource management on the significant risk areas provided with a balanced assessment of the 1998 Combined Code throughout the year.
supplied by KPMG to review compliance with identified and the review of plans for, and significant risks associated with the Groups procedures and assess the integrity of the Revised Combined Code results from, internal and external audits.
operations and the effectiveness of the system control environment.
Internal audit acts as a The Revised Combined Code the Revised of internal controls.
The Audit Committee reports the results of its service to the businesses by assisting with Code applies for reporting years beginning review of the risk assessment process to the In the UK, a whistleblowing telephone the continuous improvement of controls and on or after 1 November 2003 and, Board.
The Board then draws its collective hotline service has been introduced allowing procedures.
Actions are agreed in response therefore, applied for the first time to the conclusion as to the effectiveness of the employees to raise issues of concern in to its recommendations and these are Company in respect of the financial year system of internal control.
The key relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an followed up by the Audit and Risk which commenced on 1 October 2004.
The procedures, which the directors have entirely confidential basis.
Similar Committees to ensure that satisfactory Company is committed to the application of established with a view to providing effective arrangements are being considered for Group control is maintained.
the principles set out in the Revised Code internal control, are as follows: companies located outside the UK.
and the adoption of the appropriate Budgetary process provisions of the Revised Code, or, where Indication of business risks Quality and integrity of personnel A comprehensive budgeting system is in the Board considers that these provisions The processes to identify and manage the key The integrity and competence of personnel is place, with annual budgets for all operating are inappropriate, to providing a clear risks to the success of the Group are an ensured through high recruitment standards subsidiaries being approved by respective explanation of why it does not comply.
integral part of the internal control and subsequent training courses.
Such processes, which are personnel are seen as an essential part of the The current position in relation to the combined budget is subject to consideration reviewed and improved as necessary, include control environment.
adoption of the relevant provisions of the and approval by the Board.
Management strategic planning, the appointment of senior Revised Code is as follows: information systems provide the directors with Management structure managers, the regular monitoring of relevant and timely information required to The Board has overall responsibility for the Provision A.
1.2 of the Revised Code performance and control over capital monitor financial performance.
requires the Company to identify a senior Group.
Each executive director has been given expenditure and acquisitions.
The Company Investment appraisal including responsibility for specific aspects of the independent director.
The Board has has formed a Risk Committee consisting of acquisitions appointed Mr L C N Bury to this role.
A clearly defined organisational the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Budgetary approval and defined authorisation structure exists within which individual The role of the senior independent members of the Group finance team, the levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of non-executive director is to provide a point responsibilities are identified and can be Secretary and representatives of the Group the budgetary process the Board considers monitored.
The management of the Group as of contact for those shareholders who wish operating companies.
A representative of proposals for research and development to raise issues with the Board, other than a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive KPMG, the internal auditors, may attend programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to and the executive directors.
The conduct of through the Chairman.
He is available to meetings of the Committee by request.
The internal guidelines governing investment consult with shareholders and also chairs Sages individual businesses is delegated to Committee reviews all business activities to appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, the local executive management teams.
These meetings of the non-executive directors identify the nature and extent of the significant execution and post-acquisition management.
teams are accountable for the conduct and risks facing the Group, undertakes risk review performance of their businesses within the audits and considers the scope and results of agreed business strategy.
They have full audits undertaken by KPMG.
It identifies 1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 23 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report 24 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Chairman of the Board has held 2004.
If the changes in the Board are shareholders are communicated to the Statement of directors responsibilities meetings with the non-executive directors approved by shareholders at the Annual Board as a whole and he should discuss Company law requires the directors to without the executive directors present as General Meeting in 2005, one half of the governance and strategy with major prepare financial statements for each required by provision A.
1.3 of the Revised Board other than the Chairman will shareholders.
In addition, non-executive financial year that give a true and fair view Code.
In addition, the non-executive comprise non-executive directors considered directors should be offered the opportunity of the state of affairs of the Company and directors have met without the Chairman by the Board to be independent and the to attend meetings with major shareholders the Group and of the profit or loss of the present to appraise the Chairmans Company will comply with the Revised and should expect to attend them if Group for that period.
In preparing those performance and on other occasions as Code from the date of that meeting.
The financial statements the directors are deemed appropriate.
Chairman ensures that shareholder required to: The Board has adopted a formal review communication and responses are The Board has adopted terms of reference procedure requiring the completion of Select suitable accounting policies and then discussed at each meeting of the Board clearly identifying the division of detailed questionnaires by each individual apply them consistently.
and that all shareholders have access to the responsibilities between the Chairman and member of the Board on the performance non-executive directors, by request to the Make judgements and estimates that are Chief Executive.
The terms are available to of the Board as a whole, its Committees Chairman or the Secretary.
shareholders on request to the Secretary.
These questionnaires are reviewed by the The Revised Code provides D. 1.1 that the State whether applicable accounting Although the current Board complies with the Chairman and by the Board as a whole.
senior independent director should attend standards have been followed subject to main principle of the Revised Code in that it A discussion and evaluation of Board sufficient meetings with a range of major any material departures disclosed and includes a balance of executive and nonperformance also takes place at the shareholders to listen to their views in order explained in the financial statements.
executive directors so that no individual or Strategy Conference attended each year to help develop a balanced understanding small group of individuals can dominate the The directors confirm that they have by the Board.
of issues of major shareholders.
In his role Boards decision taking, it recognises that complied with the above requirements in as senior independent non-executive under provision A.
3.2 of the Revised Code it Messrs Clayton and Hobson, two new preparing the financial statements.
The director, Mr L C N Bury is available to is recommended that at least half the Board, members of the Board appointed during directors are responsible for keeping proper shareholders to discuss issues of concern excluding the Chairman, should comprise the year, have undergone a full formal and accounting records that disclose with by request to him or the Secretary.
non-executive directors determined by the tailored induction to the Board A.
1.5 of the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Board to be independent.
To that end, the Revised Code although they have not held The terms of appointment of non-executive position of the Company and the Group and Chief Executive and Chairman as Chairman meetings with major shareholders.
Ms directors are available for review at the to enable them to ensure that the financial of the Nomination Committee commenced Ingram was appointed to the Board with registered office of the Company.
statements comply with the Companies Act a strategy to identify and appoint suitable effect from 21 December 2004 and, 1985.
They are also responsible for Going concern independent non-executive directors.
therefore, has not yet undergone such an safeguarding the assets of the Company and The following statement has been included External advisors were appointed to identify induction but will do so shortly.
the Group and hence for taking reasonable in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based suitable candidates with the intention of steps for the prevention and detection of The Terms of Reference of the on normal business planning and control achieving the appointment of not less than fraud and other irregularities.
Remuneration Committee, Nomination procedures, the directors have a reasonable two new independent non-executive Committee and Audit Committee are expectation that the Company and the directors by the end of the financial year to reviewed annually and are available on Group have adequate resources to continue 30 September 2004 and to advise on further By Order of the Board request from the Secretary at the registered in operational existence for the foreseeable appointments thereafter.
As a result of this M J Robinson office of the Company as required by the future.
For this reason, the directors process two new independent non-executive Secretary Revised Code and on the Company continue to adopt the going concern basis directors, Mr D H Clayton and Mr A J 22 December 2004 website at www.
Hobson, were appointed to the Board in June 2004 and Ms T Ingram was appointed Under the Revised Code the Chairman to the Board with effect from 21 December should ensure that the views of the
