Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 31 Investor Relations Review Investor relations objectives Throughout 2004 we talked regularly to For further information please visit The key objective of the S&N investor around 15 stock market analysts based the S&N website at www.
scottishrelations programme is to achieve a first in the UK and several overseas.
class contact programme that raises the In 2005 we anticipate a similar Company profile and provides full and communications programme.
We aim Review of 2004 transparent communication to as wide to meet with all our major shareholders Clearly we are pleased with the improvement an audience as possible and therefore at least once during the year.
in our share price performance during 2004. achieves a fair stock market value for The share price opened at 376p and closed S&N.
In particular, we aim to comply with Full and transparent communication at 436p, an increase of 16.0%.
The share all regulations relating to the conduct of Copies of all press releases, presentations, price improved in early 2004 as the market publicly listed companies, particularly the webcasts and recordings of conference calls learned of the cost savings initiatives and dissemination of price sensitive or material are posted on S&Ns website as soon as profit recovery underway in the UK but fell information, which is made available to practicable.
Anyone wishing to be updated back during the summer over concerns for all investors and, as far as is practicable, of new information on the website can sign consumer goods markets in Western Europe is posted on the S&N website.
up for an electronic alert service which can and margin erosion at BBH.
During the be found on the home page of the website.
A first class contact programme autumn the share price recovered again There is also extensive background The senior management devotes a following reassurance of the robust information about the Group, its brands and significant amount of time to external performance of our European businesses operations and corporate responsibility on communications, both to the investment and the second half growth of BBH.
community and the financial press.
During 2004 the FTSE All-Share increased Anyone with a query is encouraged to In 2004 members of the S&N management by 9.2% and the FTSE Beverages sector by contact the Corporate Affairs team in team hosted three formal presentations to 12.4%.
Thus S&N outperformed the FTSE Edinburgh on 0131 528 2000 or via email the investment community, one each at the All-Share by 6.8% and the FTSE Beverages at enquiries@scottish-newcastle.
time of the preliminary and interim results in sector by 3.6%.
February and August and a half-day seminar All shareholders are encouraged to attend From the graph below you can see S&Ns on S&N UK for institutional investors and the Groups Annual General Meeting which total shareholder return against our analysts in June.
All three presentations this year will be held at the Sheraton Hotel European beer competitors.
During the were webcast and all the presentations were in Edinburgh on 28 April 2005 see page year we outperformed both Heineken posted on the S&N website in the Investor 80 for Notice of Meeting.
In addition to and Carlsberg.
The S&N UK seminar the Chairmans Statement, a trading included presentations from each of the presentation will be made and the Groups Since the beginning of 2005 performance UK executive management team on all products and activities will be on display.
has continued to be strong.
We are hopeful aspects of the UK business including of maintaining this momentum.
operations, HR, marketing, sales both on and off trade and finance.
S&N also hosted four conference calls, S&N total shareholder return vs European beer competitors during 2004 one for each of the BBH quarterly results.
The conference calls were recorded and the 160 accompanying presentations and recordings 150 were posted on the S&N website.
140 130 During 2004 S&N senior management had 120 approximately 40 one:one meetings or 110 conference calls with UK institutional 100 investors and met approximately another 90 90 at a series of Group meetings.
In addition, they had one:one meetings or conference 80 calls with approximately 60 overseas institutional investors, met approximately another 44 at Group meetings and spent 12 S&N InBev Heineken days travelling to see them.
We also spoke at four investor conferences and one seminar.
