Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 35 Corporate Governance Report Compliance Management Structure The Board is responsible for We remain committed to high standards The Board is responsible for the overall the overall leadership of the of Corporate Governance and, with two leadership of the Group and for Group and for determining exceptions, we have throughout the year determining our long term objectives our long term objectives complied with the new Combined Code and commercial strategy.
on Corporate Governance issued by the and commercial strategy.
The Board has delegated the Financial Services Authority in July 2003. management of the Groups businesses The first exception relates to the number to the Executive Management Group, of independent non-executive directors headed by the Chief Executive, subject on the Board, Provision A.
3.2 which is to a formal schedule of matters covered further under the report from the specically reserved for the Board, Nominations Committee below.
The which includes: second relates to the composition of the Approval of the annual operating Nominations Committee and of the Audit and capital expenditure budgets: Committee Provisions A.
4.1 and C. 3.1 Changes to the Groups capital which complied with the Combined Code structure: requirements following a review of their Approval of preliminary announcements membership in February 2004. and published reports and accounts: The Board The determination of dividend policy.
The Board comprises the Chairman, The Board also determines and monitors the Chief Executive, three further the Groups capital authorisation and executive directors and seven noncontrol procedures.
For brief biographies of the directors, please see pages In addition to the Executive Management 32 and 33.
Group, the Board has formed the following committees: There have been three changes to the The Audit Committee: composition of the Board during the year, The Nominations Committee: and one change of role.
Neville Isdell The Remuneration Committee: resigned as a director with effect from The Treasury Committee.
31 May 2004, on being appointed Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Each committee has formal terms of the Coca-Cola Company, as unfortunately reference which are available on our his new post meant he was no longer website www.
com in a position to devote sufficient time to or on request from the Company the Group, and on 29 July 2004, Henry Secretary.
We have included a report Fairweather, our Human Resources from each of the Chairmen of these Director, retired after 35 years service committees in this section.
On 30 September Our businesses are grouped into four 2004, Sir Ian Robinson was appointed geographical areas: UK, France, Greater a non-executive director.
On 28 June Europe USA and Asian development 2004, following organisational changes, markets, each headed by a member of John Nicolson, whose role was previously the EMG.
In addition, we have six Chairman, International Beer, became functional teams: Finance, Human Chairman, Greater Europe USA.
Resources, Marketing, Information Systems, Operations and Legal, each operating throughout the geographical This structure allows us to operate businesses co-ordinated by a member a matrix organisation consistent with our role as an international beer led of the EMG.
This structure allows us to beverages business promoting operate a matrix organisation consistent cohesion and quality in key business with our role as an international beer-led functions, whilst keeping commercial beverages business promoting decision-making and authority close cohesion and quality in key business to our customers and markets.
functions, whilst keeping commercial decision-making and authority close to our customers and markets.
Our executive management structure, and the members of the EMG are featured on page 6 and 16 of this report.
36 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Performance evaluation Board meetings and procedures The Board has agreed a clear written During the year we carried out a full The Board meets regularly, at least eight division of responsibilities between the performance evaluation of the Board, times each year, including one full days Chairman and Chief Executive.
its committees and each individual strategy discussion, with further meetings director.
We decided that we would as appropriate, for example to review The Chairman is responsible for conduct the review internally since we major transactions.
Meetings are held leadership of the Board including: believe we have the right resources and at the Group Ofce in Edinburgh and Overseeing the overall Board structure: experience of previous reviews.
However, at our divisional ofces and breweries The appointment of the Chief the Treasury Committee was evaluated in the UK and elsewhere.
Executive and the approval of all other by KPMG as part of a wider review Board appointments on the advice The Company Secretary, Peter Kennerley, of the Groups treasury operations.
of the Nominations Committee: is responsible for ensuring that Board Board procedures and processes: The internal Board and committee reviews procedures are followed and all Promoting the Groups interests with were conducted under the supervision directors have direct access to him.
third parties, including investors, of the appropriate Chairmen.
We agreed The Chairman agrees Board agendas government organisations, industry a questionnaire which was sent to with all appropriate directors and all bodies, business partners and the each Board and committee member in Board members are free to raise other community at large: and advance of an interview conducted by the issues at Board meetings.
Overseeing the evaluation of strategic Head of Group Review and Audit and the All directors bring their own independent options and supporting the Chief Company Secretary.
The responses were judgement to all major matters affecting Executive in their execution.
then collated and, after discussion with the Group and the views of executive the Chairmen, presented to the Board The Chairmans role envisages a time directors are not limited to those or committee and action points and commitment of the equivalent of around operational or functional areas for which timings agreed.
the directors have prime responsibility.
Board papers are sent to directors in The role of the Chief Executive is During the year we carried out a sufficient time before Board meetings, and to lead the management of S&N in full performance evaluation of the further back-up papers and information order to deliver maximum long term Board, its committees and each are readily available to all directors on shareholder value.
He is responsible individual director.
request to the Company Secretary.
to the Chairman and the Board for all aspects of management of the There is an agreed procedure for directors The performance of individual directors, Group including: to take independent professional advice both executive and non-executive, was The preparation and evaluation of if necessary, at the Companys expense.
evaluated by the Chairman, in conjunction strategic options for recommendation The Company has arranged an appropriate with the Chief Executive in the case of to the Board: level of insurance cover in respect of other executive directors.
As a result The implementation of agreed strategic legal action against directors and ofcers, of this review, the Board confirms that objectives: who also benefit, subject to certain it is satisfied that each of Dr Neville Bain The preparation of long term financial exceptions, from a deed of indemnity and Henrik Therman, who are proposed plans and the annual budget: in respect of acts done in their capacity for re-election at the AGM, continues to The achievement of financial as a director or officer of the Company demonstrate the necessary commitment objectives: or any subsidiary or investee company.
and to be a fully effective member Communicating with shareholders, A copy of the deed of indemnity of the Board.
analysts and the press on business is available for inspection at our performance and prospects: registered ofce.
Chairing the Executive Management The following table shows which directors Group: and sit on the Board committees, together Ensuring that all key Group functions with the number of meetings held and are adequately resourced and that the attendance.
Groups organisation structure, policies and practices, are aligned with the Groups business objectives.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 37 This review resulted in important points Board committee and attendance table for learning for both the Company and Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Treasury our external auditors and provided a basis 8 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings for our recommendation as to their Sir Brian Stewart 8 3 reappointment.
Dr J I W Anderson 6 2 3 The Committee reviewed the Groups Dr N C Bain 7 4 5 3 whistleblowing arrangements in Mr J M Dunsmore 8 1 compliance with the new Combined Mr J H W Fairweather 5 Code.
As a result of the review we have Mr A G Froggatt 8 decided to extend the UK arrangement Sir Angus Grossart 7 4 3 4 to cover the Groups other subsidiaries Mr E J V Hartwall 8 3 2 so far as is consistent with local laws.
Mr E N Isdell 32 2 Mr I G McAllister 8435 In addition, we conducted a formal review Mr I P McHoul 8 4 of the effectiveness of the Committee, which Mr J R Nicolson 8 resulted in a number of recommendations 3 Mr H V L Therman 81 4 which we are now following.
Sir Ian Robinson 2 We have agreed a clear policy on the 1 2 3 Notes: Retired 29 July 2004 Resigned 31 May 2004 Resigned from Audit Committee 18 February 2004 engagement of our external auditors for 4 Appointed 30 September 2004 non-audit services.
Where work is closely related to the audit, for example accounting Audit Committee The role of the Committee includes: advice or stock exchange reporting, work Report by the Committee Chairman, Monitoring the integrity of the financial may be awarded to the external auditors.
Dr Neville Bain statements of the Company and any If the work is of a nature such that a The current members of the Committee, formal announcements relating to the detailed understanding of the Group is who are all independent non-executive Companys financial performance, necessary, or where significant benefit directors, are Sir Angus Grossart, reviewing significant financial reporting can be gained from work previously appointed to the committee on 29 May judgements contained in them: conducted, for example tax advice or due 1998, Ian McAllister, appointed to the Reviewing accounting policies, accounting diligence on transactions, the work may committee on 26 September 1996 and treatments and disclosures in financial be awarded to the external auditors, myself as Chairman, appointed to the reports: except that if it exceeds 250,000 in committee on 26 June 1997 and Reviewing the effectiveness of the value, it must first be approved by the as Chairman on 2 December 1998.
Companys internal controls and risk Chairman of the Committee.
All other Both Sir Angus Grossart and I have, in management systems: work above 100,000 in value will the view of the Board, the appropriate Reviewing the Companys generally be submitted for tender and level of recent and relevant financial whistleblowing procedures: assessed on established criteria, subject experience as required by the Combined Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness to the approval of the Chairman of the of Group Review and Audit: Code.
Neville Isdell also sat on the Committee.
We believe that this policy Committee until his resignation in May Making recommendations to the Board provides a more relevant measure of as to the appointment or reappointment 2004.
Mark Stevens, Assistant auditor independence than the monetary Company Secretary, acts as secretary.
of the Groups external auditors and ratios and guidelines followed by some approving their terms of engagement: and In addition, the Group Finance Director, investors.
A breakdown of the fees paid and the Head of Group Review and Overseeing the relationship with the to our auditors in respect of audit and external auditors, including assessing Audit attend by invitation, as does non-audit work is included in note 4 to the Henrik Therman, who was a member independence and objectivity.
accounts on page 59. of the committee until February 2004, to assist the Committee on issues The Committee met four times relating to BBH.
Representatives of during the year and, in addition to the Groups auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, our regular tasks relating to the review also generally attend the meetings and of accounts and the audit process, each year we meet with the auditors we considered, in particular, the at least once without members of management of risks in our oversees management present.
joint ventures, and conducted a formal review of the service provided by the Groups external auditors.
38 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee a formal process for succession planning to be around one or two days per month Report by the Chairman of the and a review of individual executive overall, with more for committee Chairmen.
Committee, Sir Brian Stewart directors and other members of the We recognise the benefit that can ow The current members of the Committee EMG.
We also conducted a formal review from non-executive directors holding are Dr Iain Anderson, Sir Angus Grossart, of our operation during the year, as a other appointments but, although we Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister and myself.
result of which we adopted a number do not have a formal limitation on the It therefore comprises a majority of of recommendations.
number of other appointments for nonindependent non-executive directors.
executive directors, we do require them The Combined Code recommends that Henry Fairweather, formerly Group HR to seek the agreement of the Chairman at least half the Board, excluding the Director, was a member of the committee before accepting any commitments that Chairman, should be non-executive until February 2004.
In April, I took over might affect the time they are able to directors determined by the Board to be as Chairman from Dr Anderson as it was devote to the Company.
We have agreed that all our agreed that, as the Chairman of the directors who are to be appointed to non-executive directors are independent, Company has overall responsibility for the board of other companies, we limit with the exception of Erik Hartwall and leading the Board, he should also chair the the appointment to one.
In identifying Henrik Therman, who are each directors committee which reviews its composition.
a suitable candidate as a non-executive of Oy Hartwall Ab, which is a major The Company Secretary is secretary director, we would usually use search shareholder in the Company.
Whilst to the committee and the Chief Executive consultants or advertise, and during the we do not therefore comply with the and Group HR Director attend meetings year we appointed Russell Reynolds to Combined Code requirements on this by invitation, except where their own assist us with our searches.
In selecting point, we believe that we currently have positions are under discussion, as do the a candidate, we would base our choice a good balance between executive and other non-executive directors when entirely on merit, recognising the non-executive directors on the Board.
The Committee meets as advantages which come from a diversity Nevertheless, we are continually required, but at least twice a year.
which reects our expanding businesses reviewing the Board structure, we were and consumer base.
The role of the Committee includes: delighted to be able to secure the Reviewing the structure, size and appointment of Sir Ian Robinson as Non-executive directors are usually composition of the Board and making a director in September 2004, and we appointed for an initial term of three years, recommendations to the Board with aim to recruit at least one further which can be extended for a further two regards to any changes required: independent non-executive director as three-year terms.
In deciding whether to Planning succession for directors: soon as practicable, and in any event by agree any such extension, the committee Assessing and nominating for Board 31 December 2005, recognising that carefully evaluates the past and likely approval candidates to ll Board we should not compromise on the quality future contribution to the Board of the vacancies as and when they arise: of candidates.
director concerned, together with the Reviewing annually the time current Board structure and the need for We have agreed a formal process for commitment required from nonprogressive refreshing of the Board.
On the appointment of directors, starting executive directors: the basis of this evaluation, during the with a review of the Board structure, size Making recommendations to the Board year the terms for each of Dr Neville Bain, and composition, leading to the preparation regarding membership of the Audit Sir Angus Grossart and Dr Iain Anderson of a written job specication and the and Remuneration Committees, were extended for a third three-year term.
in consultation with the Chairman In the case of non-executive directors, The contracts of executive directors of each committee: in particular, we aim for a balance of and the written letters of appointment for Assessing the continuation in service skills in the area of international drinks, each non-executive director are available of any director who is to be re-elected brands, strategic experience and financial for inspection at our registered ofce or has reached the age of 65: and background, noting, in particular, the and at the AGM.
Reviewing the leadership needs of the requirements of the Combined Code Company to ensure its ability to compete Newly appointed directors are subject that at least one member of the Audit in the marketplace.
to appointment by shareholders at the Committee should have recent and Annual General Meeting following their During the year, we held three formal relevant financial experience.
We also appointment and all directors must submit meetings, covering topics including a full ensure that prospective non-executive themselves for re-election at least every review of the current Board structure directors can devote sufficient time three years.
and committee membership, agreeing to the appointment which we estimate Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 39 Remuneration Committee Induction, Training & Development Directors Remuneration Report.
Notice Report by the Committee Chairman, All new directors receive a full tailored of the Annual General Meeting is sent Ian McAllister induction on joining the Board.
This to shareholders at least 20 working days The members of the Committee are includes presentations on our businesses, before the meeting and details of the Dr Iain Anderson, Dr Neville Bain and structure and procedures, meetings with proxy votes for and against each myself as Chairman, all being independent business and functional heads and visits resolution, together with abstentions, non-executive directors.
Neville Isdell was to our main sites.
We also offer major are made available after the result also a member of the Committee until his shareholders an opportunity to meet of hand votes.
Details are also posted resignation from the Board in May 2004. new directors.
The Committee met five times during Our approach to training and continuing Directors receive regular reports the year, and amongst other matters, development for directors recognises that on the views of our major shareholders we settled the final terms of the new all members of the Board and particularly and City analysts, through surveys, Performance Share Plan which was our non-executives have extensive reports of meetings between the approved by shareholders at the Annual experience in senior posts in major Chairman, the Chief Executive and General Meeting in April 2004.
the Group Finance Director with conducted a formal effectiveness review shareholders, and an analysis of In addition, we aim to ensure that all for the Committee, following which reactions to published results.
directors refresh their knowledge of our we have put in place a number of actions businesses and marketing and regulatory For a review of our investor relations to improve the way we work.
developments through receiving monthly programme please see page 31.
Our formal remuneration report, on pages Non-executive directors 41 to 50, contains a further explanation All our executive directors played Report by Ian McAllister, of our remuneration policy, together with a leading part in a development Senior non-executive director details of the remuneration paid to the programme, Driving Change, The non-executive directors met twice, Board during the year.
which we ran for senior executives as a formal group, during the year, once in conjunction with the business Treasury Committee with the Chairman and once under my school, IMD.
Report by the Committee Chairman, Chairmanship.
We do, however, have Ian McHoul a regular dialogue with the Chairman The members of the Committee comprise outside formal meetings.
performance management reports, Board myself as Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, papers and presentations at Board As required by the Combined Code, I led Sir Angus Grossart, John Laurie meetings and we encourage directors to a formal evaluation of the performance Group Financial Services Director manage their own development by of the Chairman, including separate and Alan Dick Group Treasurer, informing them of and recommending interviews with each member of the who also acts as secretary.
appropriate external courses or seminars.
Board, after which a formal report was The role of the Committee includes: produced for discussion at the meeting Shareholders Providing strategic recommendations of the non-executive directors at which We have a regular dialogue with to, and acting on behalf of, the Board the Chairman was not present.
institutional shareholders throughout the on treasury matters: year, other than during close periods.
The As a result, we can confirm in particular Presenting an annual Treasury Policy Company also encourages communications that his role, as Chairman of Standard Statement for review by the Board with private shareholders and welcomes Life Assurance Company, has not covering areas such as target gearing, their participation at shareholder meetings.
interest cover, dividend cover and xed At the Annual General Meeting, in addition rate debt parameters: together with During the year I met a number of our to the Chairmans statement, a trading currency translation and transaction major shareholders: if any shareholders presentation is made to shareholders and risk: and would like to raise any concerns with the Companys products and activities The approval on behalf of the Board me, or with any other non-executive are on display.
All Board members attend of standard terms for loan facilities and director, could they please contact the Annual General Meeting and guarantees within certain financial limits.
in particular, the senior non-executive During the year, we appointed KPMG director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations to undertake an efficiency review of the Groups treasury operation, including the Committees are available to answer questions.
Separate resolutions are working of the Committee.
The review confirmed that we work in line with best proposed on substantially separate issues and the agenda includes a resolution practice in nearly all areas, but there were one or two areas for improvement adopting the Report and Accounts and a separate resolution adopting the which are now being addressed.
40 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability and Audit The Board obtains its assurance on the in the Board of BBH and in overseeing The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the control system from its finance and treasury functions, Groups systems of internal control and regular reports from the Chairman of the together with regular reports on the for reviewing their effectiveness.
These Audit Committee, management reports, performance of the business.
systems are intended to manage rather reports by the internal and external auditors Going concern than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve and receives a formal report on the After making enquiries, the directors have business objectives and we recognise process annually.
a reasonable expectation that the Group that such systems can only provide The Group has an internal audit function has adequate resources to continue reasonable, not absolute, assurance Group Review and Audit or GRA which operating for the foreseeable future.
For against material misstatement or loss.
reports to the Audit Committee.
The this reason, the going concern basis was As prescribed in the guidance of the annual audit plan, which is risk-based, adopted in preparing the accounts.
Turnbull Committee on Internal Control, is approved by the Audit Committee and Statement of directors we have established an ongoing process covers business processes and internal responsibilities in relation for identifying, evaluating and managing controls in all divisions and functions.
to the financial statements the significant risks faced by the Group.
Reports are produced for each audit The directors are required by law to This process has been in place throughout undertaken and there is an effective prepare financial statements which give the financial year and up to the date of the follow-up system for ensuring the a true and fair view of the state of affairs approval of the financial statements.
The implementation of agreed action.
of the Company and of the Group as process is regularly reviewed A comprehensive Control Self Assessment at the end of the financial year and of and discussed at the Audit Committee exercise conducted on an annual basis the profits for that year.
They are also and amended where required.
complements the work of GRA.
This responsible for ensuring that proper and As part of the ongoing process each exercise is subject to regular enhancement adequate accounting records have been division and function reviews and evaluates and requires management to assess kept and that appropriate procedures the risks to the achievement of its strategic the effectiveness of their fundamental have been followed for safeguarding objectives.
The Board also identies operating control over all aspects of their group assets and preventing and those significant risks which might operations, not just financial controls.
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
preclude achievement of corporate GRA will test the validity of the latest Appropriate accounting policies which objectives.
Mitigating controls are then responses on their next visit to the location.
follow applicable accounting standards identied together with any action At the end of the financial year heads have been applied consistently in the necessary to enhance the effectiveness of businesses functions sign a letter of preparation of the financial statements of those controls.
The proles of significant representation conrming that controls and reasonable and prudent judgements risk at divisional and corporate level are have been applied throughout the year.
and estimates have been made.
The subject to regular review and update as financial statements have been prepared The foregoing procedures can be varied an integral part of the Groups integrated on a going concern basis.
depending upon the specic agreements Performance Management process.
with each of our joint venture partners.
Where this is the case, however, we would seek to ensure so far as is practicable that we are satisfied with the effectiveness of the prevailing control environment.
In the case of our investment in Baltic Beverages Holding, in particular, our controls are focussed on participation
