Corporate Governance 1 Corporate Governance Statement 12 Energy Management 2 Board Composition 13 Capital Investment 3 Board Proceedings 14 Monitoring and Corrective Action 4 Report from Nomination Committee 15 Auditor Independence 5 Relationship with Shareholders 16 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and 6 Directors Training and Development Procedures Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 7 Board Performance Evaluation 17 Social, Environmental and Ethical 8 Report from Audit Committee Matters 9 Internal Control 18 Political Donations and Expenditure 10 Control Environment 19 NewYork Stock Exchange 11 Identification and Evaluation of Risks and Control Objectives Board members, giving details of their experience and other main Corporate Governance Statement commitments, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
The wide ranging Scottish Power plc is committed to the highest standards experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure 1 of corporate governance.
This statement, together with that they can debate and constructively challenge management in the Remuneration Report of the Directors, set out on pages 72 relation to both the development of strategy and performance to 83, describes how, in respect of the financial year ended 31 against the goals set by the Board.
Attendance of Board members March 2004, the company has applied the principles of good at Board and Committee meetings is set out in Table 42. corporate governance and has complied with the provisions set Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified out in Section 1 of the Combined Code in the UK and with the term of three years and re-appointment is not automatic.
It is Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and associated rules to the extent company policy that, other than in exceptional circumstances, they apply to the company in the US.
non-executive directors should serve no more than two threeThe company has reviewed the additional requirements year terms.
In Sir Peter Gregsons case, it was agreed by the which will apply with effect from 1 April 2004 as a result of the Board at the end of his two terms that he should serve for a changes to the Combined Code arising from the Higgs Report further year to facilitate succession planning and he will stand and the guidance for audit committees contained in the Smith down as a director at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM.
Report, and has indicated in this report the extent to which it Directors also stand for re-election by the shareholders at the already complies with these obligations and the actions which first annual general meeting following their appointment and have been taken to address the few remaining areas introduced subsequently at least every three years.
The report from the by the new Code.
The company has also taken account of the Nomination Committee contained in this report explains the recent changes to the listing rules of the New York Stock process for selection of directors and succession planning.
Exchange, as they apply to foreign issuers, and other There is a well-established division of authority and developments such as the issue by the National Association of responsibility at the most senior level within the company Pension Funds of its revised Corporate Governance Policy.
through the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders for concerns which cannot be resolved by contact Board Composition with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
The Board comprises the Chairman, five executive Directors and officers of the company and its subsidiaries 2 directors and seven non-executive directors.
All of the have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance non-executive directors are considered to be independent and Sir policy.
All directors can take independent legal advice at the Peter Gregson is the senior independent director.
Biographies of companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 65 Corporate Governance basis, the Board receives presentations from each of the Board Proceedings divisions and other key functions enabling it to explore specific The Board meets on a regular basis twelve times a year, issues and developments in more detail.
Any matter requiring a 3 and otherwise as required.
Of the twelve normal decision by the Board will be supported by a paper analysing all meetings, six are held at company locations in the UK and US, relevant aspects of the proposal for example, in the case of and the remaining six are held by telephone conference.
For a capital expenditure, expected returns and a comparison to the number of years the company has included within this meeting investment hurdles set by the Board as well as potential risks programme provision for the non-executive directors to meet and proposed management action.
annually in the absence of the Chairman and or executive The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that directors.
all Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board on In January 2004 the Board approved a revised schedule corporate governance matters.
of matters reserved to it for decision.
This schedule is intended The Board is supported by a number of committees: as to ensure that the Board retains full control over strategy, well as the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, investment and capital expenditure, and limits the decisions the Board has also established a Group Finance Committee, which can be taken by management in the areas of governance, chaired by Philip Carroll and comprising both executive and strategic and financial management and reporting, capital non-executive directors, which allows for more detailed scrutiny structure, corporate actions, mergers and acquisitions, energy of financing issues than would be possible within the confines of management, contracts and other commitments, litigation and regular Board meetings.
It has authority to approve financing regulatory proceedings, remuneration and share plans.
Where transactions within the strategy set by the Board.
authority is delegated to management it is on a structured basis, Reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees are ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the contained within this Report, in Sections 4 and 8 respectively.
Within management, the Executive Team, The activities of the Remuneration Committee are described which meets at least twice a month either physically or by within the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 83. telephone conference, ensures executive focus on groupwide performance and risk management, while each of the four Report from Nomination Committee divisions holds monthly board meetings involving the Chief Executive and Finance Director as well as senior divisional Charles Miller Smith, the Chairman of the company, is 4 management.
the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members of Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business the Committee throughout the year were Mair Barnes, Sir Peter performance against the plan approved by the Board and risk Gregson and Nolan Karras, all of whom are independent management, both at a group level and also for each of the four directors, and Ian Russell, the Chief Executive.
The majority of business divisions, on a month by month basis.
On a rotating the members of the Committee are therefore independent.
Table 42 Board and Committee attendance during the year ended 31 March 2004 Charles Euan Mair Donald Philip Sir Peter Nolan Ewen Nick Ian Charles Judi Simon David 1 2 3 4 5 6 Miller Smith Baird Barnes Brydon Carroll Gregson Karras Macpherson Rose Russell Berry Johansen Lowth Nish N R N, R R, A R, A N, R, A N, R, A R, A A N Board 1271276121241012126712 12 meetings Nomination Committee 8 8 8 7 8 8 meetings Remuneration Committee 4 7 2 3763 7 meetings Audit Committee 2 37747 7 meetings N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman 1 Euan Baird has been absent from the Board and Remuneration Committee since December 2003 due to ill health.
2 Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board in May 2003, and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in October 2003.
3 Philip Carroll resigned from the Board and Audit Committee in May 2003.
He was re-appointed to the Board and Audit Committee, and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee, in October 2003.
4 Ewen Macpherson retired from the Board, and from the Remuneration and Audit Committees, in July 2003.
5 Judi Johansen was appointed to the Board in October 2003.
6 Simon Lowth was appointed to the Board in September 2003.
66 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Details of their qualifications and experience are set out on Broader shareholder communication takes place through pages 62 and 63.
Andrew Mitchell, Company Secretary, acts as the ScottishPower website, www.
com, which secretary to the Committee.
contains recent company announcements and other useful information, including the terms of reference of the Nomination, The Committee has written terms of reference.
Its principal role Remuneration and Audit Committees, and also through the is to: Annual Report and Accounts and Annual General Meeting.
All regularly review the structure, size and composition directors attend the AGM, and shareholders have the including the skills, knowledge and experience required by opportunity to hear presentations on the companys financial the Board: and business performance as well as to question the Board on its give full consideration to succession planning for directors, stewardship of the company.
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company and what skills and expertise are needed on the Directors Training and Development Board in the future: identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, Newly-appointed directors undergo a structured 6 candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: induction programme, to ensure that they have the consider and approve the remit and responsibilities of the necessary knowledge and understanding of the company and its executive directors: activities.
Starting at the time of their appointment, and keep under review legal and regulatory developments in continuing on an incremental basis over the first six months, relation to corporate governance and consider changes to they undertake briefing sessions on corporate governance, the companys policy and practices to address such strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk management and developments.
HR strategy, as well as meetings and site visits to business locations both in the UK and US.
Each directors individual The Committee has developed a robust process for the experience and background is taken into account in developing selection and recruitment of directors.
Following a review of the a programme tailored to their own requirements.
Boards size, composition and diversity, the Committee Continuing development is provided through briefing determines the selection criteria and the role specification.
sessions in the course of regular Board meetings, covering External selection consultants are retained to conduct searches.
business-specific and broader regulatory issues.
Directors also The Committee reviews the profiles of the candidates and receive a monthly in-house newsletter highlighting topical interviews are carried out.
The Committee then makes its governance and related developments of relevance to recommendations to the Board for approval.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, the Committee met on eight occasions.
In addition to identifying and Board Performance Evaluation nominating candidates as directors for approval by the Board, the Committee reviewed the size, composition and diversity of In 2003 the company undertook an independent 7 the Board, Executive Team performance and potential, career evaluation of the performance of the Board, undertaken development, and corporate governance developments.
In the by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators light of the revised Combined Code, the Committee examined ICSA, involving private interviews with directors.
The the relationship with shareholders, directors training and outcome of the evaluation, including specific recommendations, development and Board performance evaluation.
was regarded as very positive.
The results of this evaluation were reviewed, again by the ICSA, through a follow-up survey undertaken in early 2004.
The follow-up survey was again Relationship with Shareholders considered to be very positive with improvements noted in a The companys Investor Relations department number of areas.
To comply with the requirements of the revised 5 communicates with its institutional investors through Combined Code, an evaluation of the performance of the analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees and of US and Europe, as well as timely stock exchange announcements, individual directors will be undertaken during the year ending meetings with management and site visits.
The Board, and in 31 March 2005. particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers Report from Audit Committee briefings.
Both the Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent director are available in the event of shareholder Nick Rose is the Chairman of the Committee.
He 8 concerns which cannot be addressed through management.
At the replaced Ewen Macpherson, the previous Committee time of appointment of new non-executive directors they are Chairman, who retired from that position upon his retirement available to meet with shareholders on request.
He has also been identified as ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 67 Corporate Governance the audit committee financial expert for Scottish Power plc.
The Executive Team is responsible for implementing the The other members of the Committee, all of whom are risk management strategy: ensuring that an appropriate risk independent directors, are Philip Carroll resigned from the management framework is operating effectively across the Committee on 15 May 2003 and re-appointed to the Committee group: embedding a risk culture throughout the group: and on 20 October 2003, Donald Brydon appointed to the providing the Board and the Audit Committee with a Committee on 24 October 2003, Sir Peter Gregson and Nolan consolidated view of the risk profile of the company, identifying Karras.
Details of their qualifications and experience are set out any major exposures and mitigating actions.
Andrew Mitchell, Company Secretary, acts The risk management framework and internal control as secretary to the Committee.
system across the group, which is subject to continuous development, provides the basis on which the company has The Committee has written terms of reference.
Its principal role complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal is to review: control.
the effectiveness of the system of internal control and consider reports from both internal and external auditors on Control Environment key risks facing the group and controls over these risks: the companys financial statements, including accounting The company is committed to ensuring that a 10 policies, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, proper control environment is maintained.
There judgmental issues and the findings of the external auditors: is a commitment to competence and integrity and to the the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function: communication of ethical values and control consciousness to the relationship with the external auditors, including the managers and employees.
Employees are required to adhere to the engagement of auditors, the audit scope and approach, fees companys Code of Conduct and Disciplinary Rules.
Furthermore, and performance, and policy on provision of non-audit in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the company has services by the external auditors and recruitment of former adopted a Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive, Finance Director external auditors by the company: and principal accounting officers.
Human resources policies compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: underpin that commitment by a focus on enhancing job skills and litigation and claims affecting the group.
promoting high standards of probity among staff.
In addition, the appropriate organisational structure has been developed within Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Chief which to control the businesses and to delegate authority and Executive, the Finance Director, the Director, Group Internal accountability, having regard to acceptable levels of risk.
Audit and representatives of the external auditors.
However, the The company has developed a fraud policy and Committee holds regular private sessions to meet separately with implemented procedures to ensure that all incidences of fraud senior management, representatives of internal audit and the are appropriately investigated and reported.
external auditors, and external counsel.
A Disclosure Committee is in place to ensure effective During the year ended 31 March 2004 the Committee disclosure controls are operating around the production of key met on seven occasions.
In addition to reviewing the companys published financial statements and to provide assurance to the quarterly results before publication and receiving reports on Chief Executive and Finance Director that they may sign their audits undertaken by internal audit, the Committee received formal certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission presentations from management in each of the four divisions SEC in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley reviewing risks and management actions in those areas and Act 2002. progress reports on actions being taken by the company to address new legal and regulatory developments, including the Identification and Evaluation of introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards and Risks and Control Objectives Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
11 The companys strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, which effectively manages exposures related to the Internal Control achievement of business objectives.
The directors of ScottishPower have overall Each business identifies and assesses the key business 9 responsibility for establishing and maintaining an risks associated with the achievement of its strategic objectives.
adequate system of internal controls and for reviewing the Any key actions needed to further enhance the control effectiveness of the system.
The system of internal control is environment are identified along with the person responsible for designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
In pursuing the management of the specific risk.
Each month a detailed these objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable review of the key risks, controls and action plans within each of and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or the businesses takes place and a Risk Report is produced for loss.
review and challenge by the business boards at their monthly 68 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 meetings.
This is a key tool in ensuring the active management of in line with the group's strategy, achieve the required rate of risk across the organisation.
return, comply with legal requirements and commercial practice, Business controls managers have been appointed within and are supported by robust financial analysis.
The role of the each of the businesses to help ensure that the risk management GIC, acting on behalf of the Executive Team, is to review the and internal controls system is consistently adopted, updated group's capital programme, monthly and quarterly capital and embedded into the business processes.
expenditure and capital budgeting process, and to monitor the The corporate centre also considers those risks to the post-investment appraisal process.
In particular the GIC reviews groups strategic objectives that may not be identified and all business acquisitions and disposals and new business managed at a business level.
The Board and Executive Team on a monthly basis receive the groupwide Risk Report together with supporting Monitoring and Corrective Action documentation for review.
This report highlights the most significant risks across the group and the actions being taken to The Executive Team reviews monthly the key 14 mitigate them, and also identifies the individuals responsible for risks facing the group and the controls and the management of these risks.
The information being supplied monitoring procedures for these.
Operation of the groups to the Board and Executive Team is continually being developed control and monitoring procedures is reviewed and tested by to include quantitative measures such as sensitivity analyses and the groups Internal Audit function under the supervision of Value-at-Risk calculations for issues reported in the Group the Director, Group Internal Audit, reporting to the Finance Energy Risk Report.
Director and with access to the Chairman of the Audit The use of a well-defined risk management methodology Committee.
Internal Audit reports and recommendations on across all businesses allows a consistent and coordinated the groups procedures are reviewed regularly by the Audit approach to risk reporting for review by the Board, which also Committee.
The external auditors also provide reports to the receives regular reports on these matters from the Audit Audit Committee on matters in relation to the groups Committee, to enable the directors to review the effectiveness of internal financial control procedures identified during the the system of internal control on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee also receives A key element and requirement of the risk evaluation regular reports on the continued development, process is that a written certificate is provided quarterly by all implementation and evaluation of the risk management and members of the Executive Team, confirming that they have internal control system.
reviewed the effectiveness during the period of the system of internal control under their responsibility.
Auditor Independence The Audit Committee and the firm of external Energy Management 15 auditors have safeguards to avoid the possibility A Group Energy Risk Committee GERC has that the auditors objectivity and independence could be 12 been established to assist the Executive Team in compromised.
These safeguards include adoption by the ensuring that there is an appropriate risk and control Committee of a policy regarding pre-approval of audit and governance framework in place over energy activities.
The permitted non-statutory audit services provided by the external GERC meets monthly and the key responsibility of this group is auditors and a policy on the hiring of external audit staff.
to make suitable recommendations to the Executive Team on Where the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is energy-related risk management issues.
In addition, the Group generally considered reasonable to be completed by the Energy Risk Director, with other members of the GERC, external auditors for sound commercial and practical reasons, continues to enhance business processes and systems to ensure including confidentiality, the conduct of such work will be that all risks pertaining to the energy management businesses are permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the understood, quantified, managed and reported on a consistent Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include basis across the group.
the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and The GERC also provides advice and guidance to the regulatory advice, reporting in relation to SEC and UK Listing businesses on interpretation and execution of the Group Energy Authority requirements and the completion of certain Risk Policy.
Under the policy, any work performed in excess of a pre-defined limit must also be approved by the Finance Director and the Chairman of the Capital Investment Audit Committee.
"Substantial capital investment proposals are Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 13 reviewed by the Group Investment Committee 31 March 2004 with equivalent information for the year ended ""GIC"", chaired by the Finance Director, to ensure that they are 31 March 2003 are shown in Table 43 below: ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 69 Corporate Governance 2004 2003 Community Performance Reports which will appear on the Table 43 Auditors remuneration m m companys website."
The Environmental and Social Impact Audit services Report and the Performance Reports are verified and statutory audit 1.5 1.5 independently assured by csr network, a corporate social audit-related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.6 Further assurance services 0.7 0.7 responsibility consultancy firm.
Tax services compliance services 1.6 1.6 advisory services 0.8 3.2 Political Donations and Other services 0.3 Expenditure Total UK and US audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors 5.0 7.9 18 ScottishPower is a politically neutral organisation All of these fees were either specifically approved by the but is required to comply with the Political Parties, Elections and Audit Committee or were subject to the pre-approval procedure Referendums Act 2000.
This legislation defines political described above.
donations and expenditure in wider terms than would be commonly understood by these phrases.
The definitions include expenditure which the Board believes it is in the interests of the Evaluation of Disclosure Controls company to incur.
The Act also requires companies to obtain and Procedures Sarbanes-Oxley prior shareholder approval of this expenditure: at the Annual Act 2002 16 General Meeting in 2003 the company obtained authorisation The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have evaluated the up to a maximum amount of 100,000. effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and procedures as During the financial year ended 31 March 2004, the at the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this company paid a total of 13,950 for activities which may be evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance Director concluded regarded as falling within the terms of the Act.
The recipients of that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
these payments were: There has been no change to the groups internal controls Scottish Labour Party 8,500 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party 2,000 affect, these controls over financial reporting during the period Scottish Liberal Democrats 1,950 covered by this report.
Scottish National Party 1,500 These activities comprised the sponsorship of briefings, receptions and fringe meetings at party conferences and Social, Environmental and Ethical attendance at party events.
These occasions present an Matters important opportunity for the company to represent its views on 17 The Board receives monthly operational reports a non-partisan basis to politicians from across the political which include consideration of relevant developments across the spectrum.
The payments do not indicate support, and are not group in social, environmental and ethical SEE matters.
This intended to influence support, for any particular political party.
enables the Board to take regular account of the strategic It should be noted that these activities do not contravene significance of SEE matters to the group, and to consider the the restrictions on political contributions under the US Public risks and opportunities arising from these issues that may have Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, to which the company is an impact on the groups shortand long-term value.
matters are also included in the induction and development programme for directors.
New York Stock Exchange In terms of risk identification and management, SEE matters are included in the overall risk and control framework The New York Stock Exchange NYSE has 19 and in the Risk Report which is reviewed on a monthly basis by recently issued revised corporate governance rules the Board and Executive Team.
The company also employs for its listed companies.
These are mandatory for US management tools such as balanced scorecards to measure incorporated companies whose shares are listed on NYSE, but progress against key strategic priorities and has developed an foreign issuers such as Scottish Power plc are exempt from a International Leadership Model which integrates values with number of these requirements and may adopt different practices performance throughout the business.
that reflect home country practice.
The company has reviewed Further information regarding SEE matters can be found its compliance with the new rules as they apply to US domestic in the Business Review section of this Report.
In addition, the companies and has determined that, with the exception of two company publishes separately an Environmental and Social specific areas, it will comply fully with the new NYSE corporate Impact Report, which includes information on the companys governance rules, which are broadly comparable to the SEE policies and practices and internal governance structures, requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The two areas and individual Environmental, Workplace, Marketplace and where the company will not comply with the NYSE rules are: 70 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Composition of the Nomination Committee in line with UK corporate governance practice, the Nomination Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors, but does also include both the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The NYSE rules would require all members of the Committee to be independent.
Adoption of Corporate Governance principles UK listed companies are required either to comply with the Combined Code or explain why they have not done so.
The company complies with the existing Combined Code, and has taken the necessary action to ensure compliance with the revised Code.
The Combined Code in effect provides a set of corporate governance principles for the company addressing all of the corporate governance guidelines described in the NYSE rules, and accordingly the company does not believe that additional company-specific principles are necessary.
Any decision to depart from the provisions of the Combined Code would require to be approved by the Board and disclosed to shareholders in the next Annual Report and Accounts.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 71
