6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 19 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Audit Committee report Audit Committee membership ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the The members of the Audit Committee as at 31 December 2004 presentation of a balanced and understandable assessment were David Kappler Chairman, Ronald Nordmann and Barry of the Companys financial position: Price.
They are all independent non-executive Directors for the purposes of The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation the Combined Code.
Dr James Cavanaugh the Chairman of to be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General the Company was a member of the Audit Committee until he Meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, stood down on 30 November 2004.
Dr Cavanaugh stepped down removal and remuneration of the external auditor and to assess as in his capacity as Chairman of the Company, he is no longer at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the considered to be independent under the new Combined Code.
external auditor: Mr Ronald Nordmann chaired the Audit Committee until July review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from 2004, after completion of the preparation of the Companys the external audit, and any matters the external auditors may second-quarter results.
Mr David Kappler, who joined Shires Board wish to discuss: and became a member of Shires Audit Committee on 5 April 2004, took over the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of nonMr Nordmann.
The Board is satisfied that both Mr Nordmann and audit services by the external auditor with a view to preserving Mr Kappler, in their capacity as Chairmen of the Committee have the external auditors independence and objectivity: recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that Mr Kappler is the Audit Committee financial expert for the establish procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Mr Kappler retired as of complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc, the FTSE and internal accounting controls or auditing matters: NYSE listed global confectionery and beverages group in April 2004, having held that position since 1995.
He worked for the review at least annually the effectiveness of the Companys Cadbury Schweppes group between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined internal control system in the overall context of the Companys it in 1989, following the acquisition of the Trebor Group of which risk management system: he was Finance Director.
From 1989 to 1995 he held a number of senior positions in Cadbury Schweppes, including Director of oversee the Groups anti-fraud programmes and controls Corporate Finance.
Mr Kappler has served on a number of other and to oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged boards around the world in which Cadbury Schweppes held or suspected fraud: and interests.
He was a Director of Camelot Group plc from 1996 to 2002 and he currently serves as a non-executive Director and monitor and review the internal operational audit programme, Chairman of the Audit Committee at HMV Group plc and consider the findings of internal operational audit reviews and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Additionally, he is non-executive managements response to them.
Chairman at Premier Foods plc.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which it considers that action is required and makes recommendations The members of the Committee are chosen from amongst the for steps to be taken.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee non-executive Directors of the Company who are independent give it authority to investigate any activity within its terms of for the purposes of the Combined Code and the NASDAQ rules reference and to be responsible for the resolution of and are selected on the basis of their knowledge and experience disagreements between management and the auditor regarding of financial matters and financial reporting.
Committee members the Companys financial reporting.
The Committee is also hold office for an initial period of two years, subject to continuing authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee as a Director of the Company, for such duration as determined of the Company in order to perform its duties and to call any by the Board.
Details of remuneration paid to members of the employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee.
Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 21 to 30.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions in 2004.
Each meeting was attended by all members of the Committee.
At the Role of Audit Committee invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief In the latter part of 2004, the Terms of Reference of the Audit Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Chief Committee were reviewed and updated.
The amended Terms Risk Officer attended all of the Committees meetings in 2004, of Reference were approved by the Board on 22 February 2005. save that the Group Financial Controller was unable to attend The revised Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are one meeting due to a previous commitment.
available for review on Shires website.
The key functions of the Audit Committee under the revised Terms of Reference are to: In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee met with the external and internal auditors during the course of the monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, year without any executive member of the Board in attendance.
including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other Board announcement relating Auditor services to its financial performance or other financial information to be The Audit Committee has adopted a formal policy in relation to made public: the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, which was most recently revised in March 2004.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and accordingly the Committees policy prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Company by the auditor, including: 19 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 20 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Audit Committee report bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records audit adjustments proposed and whether they were corrected or financial statements of the Company: by management: and design and implementation of financial information systems: significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution- 2 Internal financial control and risk management systems in-kind reports: and The Audit Committee reviewed the risk management strategy, the corporate risk schedules, the internal audit strategy and plan actuarial or internal audit out-sourcing services.
and progress in complying with Section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the system of internal The Committees policy requires all audit and permissible non-audit control during the year.
The risk management and internal financial services proposed to be provided by the Companys auditors to control systems were the subject of significant focus at all the be approved by the Audit Committee.
Certain audit and non-audit meetings held throughout the year with in depth discussions held services have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee and may between the Audit Committee, Shire management, internal audit therefore be provided by the auditor provided that management and the external auditors.
does not need to exercise any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the pre-approved categories.
In addition and as part of the work in this area, a revised treasury In all cases, the Audit Committee is notified of any pre-approved policy was approved in July and reports on the treasury service provided.
Certain services have been pre-approved by investments were discussed each quarter.
At the same July the Audit Committee as part of its pre-approval policy, including: meeting the Audit Committee also approved the insurance renewal programme for 2004 5. audit services and audit related services, such as audit work performed in the preparation of financial statements, work The Audit Committee also received reports from management, that generally only the auditor can reasonably be expected the internal audit function, and the external auditor on the to provide, including comfort letters, statutory audits and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
consultation regarding financial accounting and or reporting standards, due diligence related to mergers and acquisitions, 3 External auditors employee benefit plan audits, and special procedures required The Audit Committee reviewed the performance of the external to meet certain regulatory requirements: auditor following the completion of the 2003 audit process which resulted in the Audit Committee resolving to recommend that tax services, such as tax compliance services, tax advice on the Company submit a resolution to the 2004 AGM to re-appoint the tax consequences of proposed transactions and tax advice Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys external auditor.
At on employee remuneration strategies, and forthcoming meetings in 2005, the Audit Committee will conduct a formal review of the performance of the external auditor and advice on internal reorganisations, group financing the effectiveness of the audit process in connection with the 2004 arrangements, share schemes and VAT compliance.
Any services proposed to be provided by the auditor which is not In March 2004 the Audit Committee revised its pre-approval a pre-approved service must be approved in advance by the Audit process of all audit services and permitted non-audit services Committee, which will consider whether the skills and experience undertaken by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed audit or approved all non-audit services during 2004 and there is now non-audit service.
a standing agenda item at Audit Committees covering the operation of the procedures.
Audit Committee activities During 2004, the business discussed by the Audit Committee Throughout the year, the Audit Committee has kept the objectivity included the matters set out below.
and independence of the external auditor under review and has obtained reports from the Companys external auditor describing 1 Financial Statements all relationships between the auditor and the Company.
The Audit The financial disclosures contained in the Companys annual and Committee has remained satisfied that the level of non-audit quarterly reports to shareholders were discussed by the Audit services or the nature of the work performed by the external Committee each quarter and at year-end.
Various accounting auditors has not in any way, impaired their objectivity and matters were also discussed by the Audit Committee, including independence.
The detail of fees paid to the external auditors the application of the critical accounting policies applied by the is disclosed in Note 3 to the accounts.
The application of new accounting standards was also discussed, where appropriate, during these meetings.
Quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the Audit Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following key additional areas: David Kappler Chairman of the Audit Committee auditor responsibility and independence: significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: 20
