6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 14 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements The Company is committed to high standards The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon James Grant of corporate governance is a partner of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law firm which, from time The Board is committed to high standards of corporate to time, provides legal advice to the Group.
The Board considers governance and supports the provisions and principles set out in Mr Grant to be independent notwithstanding his position as he the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK is not involved in the provision of legal advice to the Company and Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 The Combined Code.
is not engaged in marketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the The Combined Code took full effect for the first time for the Company.
Stikeman Elliott is one of a range of legal and other Company for the year ended 31 December 2004. professional advisors engaged by the Company from time to time.
Accordingly, the Board does not consider the relationship between Statement of compliance with the Combined Code the Company and Stikeman Elliott to be material and accordingly Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company the fact that Mr Grant is a partner at that firm does not, in the has, in the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set Boards assessment, affect his independence.
Mr Grant was a out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that the Chairman Board member of BioChem Pharma Inc. prior to its merger with the of the Company, Dr James Cavanaugh, sat on the Remuneration Company in 2001.
Mr Grant has an extensive knowledge of Shires Committee until 28 April 2004 and on the Audit Committee until business and he brings a wealth of expertise to the Board.
2.1 and C. 3.1 of the Combined Code require each of these committees to be comprised entirely Board and Committee changes of independent directors and under the Combined Code as There were changes to the Board and to certain of the Board revised, a Chairman is no longer considered to be independent.
Dr Wilson Totten, the Companys former Dr Cavanaugh sat on the Audit and Remuneration Committees Chief Scientific Officer stepped down from the Board on 25 May for part of 2004 pending the appointment of an additional non- 2004.
Mr David Kappler joined the Board as a non-executive executive Director which occurred in April with David Kapplers Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 5 April 2004. appointment.
He remained on the Audit Committee for a With effect from July 2004, Mr Kappler took over the Chairmanship transitional period to ensure a smooth handover of responsibilities.
of the Audit Committee from Mr Ronald Nordmann.
Mr Ronald Nordmann joined the Remuneration Committee in place of The Board Dr James Cavanaugh on 28 April 2004.
Dr James Cavanaugh The Board comprises the Chairman, two executive and five stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 28 April non-executive Directors and meets at least six times a year.
The 2004 and from the Audit Committee on 30 November 2004. non-executive Directors bring judgement which is independent of management to Board deliberations.
The executive Directors Board meetings have responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
During 2004, there were 11 Board meetings of which six were face-to-face meetings and five held by telephone.
Board meetings The Board has overall responsibility for managing the Company are well attended.
The record of attendance by directors at Board and its strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership meetings is set out below: and the control required for a listed company.
The Board has Number of formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination which meetings Out of Attendance include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share capital, Directors attended possible % approval of the Companys financial statements and entry into James Cavanaugh 11 11 100 material contracts.
Matters not formally reserved to the Board Chairman are delegated to the Executive Committee and to various other Board committees whose functions are described below.
Matthew Emmens 11 11 100 Chief Executive Officer The Board members receive detailed information from executive Angus Russell 11 11 100 Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior managers Chief Financial Officer to enable them to discharge their responsibilities efficiently and effectively.
Barry Price 10 11 91 Senior non-executive Director All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the The Hon James Grant 10 11 91 Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent non-executive Director advice at the Companys expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the Ronald Nordmann 11 11 100 knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions non-executive Director required of a director of a listed company.
Robin Buchanan 10 11 91 non-executive Director Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages 10 and 11.
David Kappler non-executive Director 8 8 100 appointed 5 April 2004 Independent Directors Wilson Totten Chief Scientific Officer 5 5 100 The Board considers Dr Barry Price, Mr Ronald Nordmann, stepped down as a Director on The Hon James Grant, Mr Robin Buchanan and Mr David Kappler 25 May 2004 to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Board views each of these non-executive Directors to be independent of management, independent in judgement and character and free The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met during the from any business or other relationship which could materially year without the executive Directors being present.
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
14 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 15 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board were also mindful of the need to ensure progressive The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held refreshening of the Board.
In this regard it should be noted that separately.
The Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible there have been substantial changes to the Board membership for the conduct of the Board and ensures that Board discussions over this period of time, including the appointments since 2003 are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into of Mr Buchanan, Mr Kappler and Mr Emmens.
In addition, there account, so that no individual Director or small group of directors have been recent significant changes to the Companys Executive dominates proceedings.
The Chief Executive Officer has the Committee, such that most of its members have been appointed general responsibility for running the business on a day-to-day in the last two years.
Having deliberated carefully on the issue, basis and chairs the Executive Committee.
and taken into account recent performance evaluations conducted with the assistance of an external consultant, the The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Board have no hesitation in asking Dr Price to remain on the Board.
Executive Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been Dr Prices commitment to the Company is undiminished and his approved by the Board.
performance continues to be effective.
Senior non-executive Director Further information concerning the Directors standing for Dr Barry Price is the Senior independent non-executive Director.
re-election at the Annual General Meeting, including their Dr Price is the Companys longest serving director and as such biographies, will be included in the Notice of Meeting to he has significant knowledge of the Company and its business.
Dr Prices in-depth knowledge of the Company in particular and the pharmaceutical industry in general is acknowledged by the The terms of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors Board and he is consulted by other non-executive Directors on will be made available for inspection at the Companys Annual matters pertaining to the Company.
Dr Price chairs meetings held General Meeting in 2005. by the non-executive Directors during the year in the absence of the executive Directors and the Chairman.
Dr Price is available Performance appraisals as required for consultation with major shareholders on any The Company conducted evaluations of the performance matter of concern.
of the Board, its committees and each of its Directors in 2004.
An external consultant was engaged to facilitate this process.
Supply of information The consultant designed and conducted a series of one-on-one The executive Directors and the Company Secretary are appraisal interviews with each Director and presented the results responsible for ensuring that detailed information is provided to to the Chairman and the Board.
It was concluded that each of Board members in advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
the members of the Board had demonstrated commitment to his Before decisions are made, consideration is given to the adequacy role and that the performance of each Director continues to be of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions effective.
As a result of the evaluation the Board discussed areas are deferred if further information is required.
where improvement could be made and these areas will be the subject of focus in 2005.
Re-election of Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of two years, Committees of the Board subject to shareholder approval.
Re-appointment of non-executive The Board has established the Audit Committee, the Directors following the expiry of such two-year period is subject Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the to satisfactory performance and to Board approval.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board.
The Terms At each Annual General Meeting, any Director who has been of Reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration appointed by the Board is required to seek re-election, together Committees are available on the Companys website.
Details with, but not exceeding, one-third of the other Directors.
of each committee are as follows: Accordingly, no Director should serve for more than three years without being subject to re-election by shareholders.
1 Audit Committee The Audit Committee has been established for the purpose At the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005, Mr Ronald of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes Nordmann and Mr Matthew Emmens will retire by rotation and of the Company and the audit of its financial statements.
For offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, in accordance with further information about the Audit Committee, its membership the provisions of the Combined Code, Dr Barry Price, who has and activities for the year ended 31 December 2004, please now served on the Board for nine years, will offer himself for refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 19 and 20. annual re-election by shareholders.
2 Remuneration Committee Dr Price is the Companys longest serving Director and as such The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board he has significant knowledge of the Company and its business.
the policy for the setting of remuneration and incentivisation of In addition to his experience at Shire, Dr Price has many years of the executive Directors and other senior executives and the fixing experience in the pharmaceutical industry, including 28 years with of the terms of their employment.
The remuneration of the nonthe Glaxo group.
The Board, when making its determination on executive Directors is determined by the Board.
The remuneration the independence of Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the of the members of the Executive Committee, other than the fact that Dr Price has been a serving member of the Board for nine executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Executive Officer years, that the Combined Code suggests that length of service of following discussion with the Remuneration Committee and is nine years or more is relevant to a determination of independence dependent on performance.
The remuneration of the executive and that re-appointment should be subject to rigorous review.
Directors and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee and confirmed by the Board.
15 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 16 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements The Remuneration Committee may engage external consultants Directors remuneration to advise on any aspects of remuneration.
The Companys remuneration policy is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 21 to 30.
The report details the level The Remuneration Committee met on 11 occasions in 2004. of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive Dr Barry Price chaired the Remuneration Committee throughout remuneration is fixed.
the year and Mr Robin Buchanan was a member of this committee throughout 2004.
Dr James Cavanaugh was a member until he Relations with shareholders stepped on 28 April 2004.
Mr Ronald Nordmann joined the The Company is committed to maintaining constructive Remuneration Committee on 28 April 2004.
Mr Buchanan was relationships with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and unable to attend 1 of the 11 Remuneration Committee meetings the Chief Financial Officer, supported by other senior executives, which took place in 2004 due to a previous commitment, but arrange individual and group meetings with major shareholders otherwise all members attended all meetings.
throughout the year to discuss the Companys strategy and performance and to understand the views of major shareholders, For further information about the Remuneration Committee, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The its membership and activities for the year ended 31 December Chairman and the Senior independent non-executive Director 2004, please refer to the Directors remuneration report on also are available to meet with major shareholders.
The Company maintains a flow of information to its shareholders 3 Nomination Committee through the announcement of quarterly results and the provision The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and of annual reports.
The Companys website at www.
com also nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill provides information about the Company and its business and is vacancies to the Board.
Before any appointment is made, the regularly updated.
The Companys Investor Relations department Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, identifies the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London at The Committee is required to consider candidates from a wide which shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions range of backgrounds, on merit and against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates have sufficient time to devote to the position.
This Committee meets as required Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects and in 2004 was chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald The Company strives to give timely assessments of matters Nordmann, The Hon James Grant and Dr Barry Price also that impact on its business and financial position and to present served on this Committee in 2004.
All members participated scientific and other price-sensitive data in a balanced way.
in all discussions of this Committee in 2004.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive The Company recognises the impact that its business may have search consultants to assist it in the identification and nomination on people and the environment as well as the social implications of new Board candidates.
of its operations on the general community.
The Company therefore attaches great importance to social and environmental 4 Executive Committee issues and to ethical business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the responsibility for them is taken at the highest levels.
The Board Company to the Executive Committee, which operates within reviews and is satisfied with the Companys approach to clear and formal parameters.
The Executive Committee meets corporate social responsibility generally.
The Board also reviews at least 11 times per year.
The Chief Executive is the Chairman the specific business risks related to Social, Environmental and of the Executive Committee which on 31 December 2004 Ethical SEE matters annually.
consisted of nine Executive Vice Presidents including the two executive Directors.
The Executive Committee reports to and The Board receives advice and information from the Corporate seeks guidance from the Board on a regular basis.
Social Responsibility Committee CSR Committee to make this assessment.
The CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief The Members of the Executive Committee as at 31 December Financial Officer, meets three times a year and is responsible 2004 were Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer, Angus for setting the policies and procedures that manage SEE issues, Russell Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of risks and opportunities.
SEE risks are managed within the overall Global Finance, Tatjana May General Counsel and Executive Vice framework of risk management, explained below under the President of Global Legal Affairs, Anita Graham Executive Vice heading internal control.
President of Human Resources, Eliseo Salinas Executive Vice President of Global R&D, Greg Flexter, Executive Vice President This year the Company has again decided to produce a standof Sales and Marketing, North America, Joseph Rus Executive alone report on Corporate Social Responsibility.
This is available Vice President of Sales and Marketing, International, Barbara on request or from the Shire website.
Deptula Executive Vice President of Business Development, John Lee Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and Quality.
Code of Ethics The Company is committed to the maintenance of high ethical The Executive Committee normally meets once a month to standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
deliberate on major business issues.
It also considers those The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees matters that are of a size and significance as to require referral and is available for review on the Companys website.
to the Board before such matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
16 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 17 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements Dividends Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the The Company announced in July 2004 its intention to commence United States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial the payment of a semi-annual dividend with the aim to grow the Officer are required to complete formal certifications, which total dividend paid for each year progressively.
As a result of the confirm, inter alia, that: adoption of this dividend policy, the Company intends to declare interim dividends twice per year, with the first payment made the annual report on Form 10-K in the United States does not around September October, following determination of first half contain any material misstatements or omissions: results and the second payment around April May of each year, following finalisation of the full year results.
If the Company was financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents the to delay payment of the second half final dividend by seeking financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the shareholder approval for the payment at the AGM which is held Company: in June each year, the Company would not be able to maintain an even payment cycle at approximately six month intervals unless the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are first half dividend payments are also delayed.
Accordingly, the responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls Company does not intend to put a resolution to shareholders and procedures for the purposes of US financial reporting: at the AGM approving the payment of the second half dividend.
This is beneficial for the Company, both from a cash flow the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have planning and from an accounting perspective and beneficial for evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and shareholders as dividends are paid promptly and a smooth procedures: payment cycle is maintained.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Financial disclosure, internal control and have indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any significant the role of the auditors changes in the Companys internal control over financial The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal reporting: and and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal control and external auditing.
The Audit Committees terms of based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the reference extend to the Companys risk management activities Chief Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with the Companys ability to record, process, summarise and report the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the strictest confidence.
financial information included in Form 10-K have been disclosed The Company operates a whistle-blowing policy which is the to the Companys auditors.
framework for a confidential process through which all employees are able to report concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have control and other compliance issues in good faith without fear completed these certifications and they have been filed with the of discrimination or reprisal.
In addition, the Audit Committee has SEC in the United States as part of the Companys annual report introduced a procedure for the receipt and monitoring of in the United States on Form 10-K. complaints relating to internal controls.
2 Risk management and internal control 1 Financial reporting The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of control, recognises its overall responsibility to maintain a sound accounts and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments control.
The Board strives to present a balanced and and the Companys assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and its Whilst the Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system prospects and endeavours to present scientific and other priceof internal control, there are limitations in any system of internal sensitive information in a balanced way.
The Company publishes control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Such a system the Companys financial position regularly.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has the responsibility and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls and the audit process.
The Audit Committee has The Board has reviewed both the key risks faced by the Company independent access to the auditors throughout the year in addition and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems to presentations from the auditors on a quarterly basis.
Outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to significant findings or identified risks are closely examined and the Audit Committee for more regular review of both key risks and are reported to the Board with recommendations for action.
internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has kept these areas under The Company has established a Disclosure Committee which is review in 2004. chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership comprises senior managers from the legal, finance and risk departments.
The Company has an integrated risk management and internal Its responsibility is to establish and maintain controls and other audit strategy that was reviewed, updated and approved by the procedures to ensure that information disclosed to investors is Audit Committee during 2004.
Following this review, the roles recorded, summarised and reported accurately and to monitor the of Chief Risk Officer and Director of Internal Audit were split.
The Disclosure Committee also The two positions, both of which have been confirmed by the Audit has the responsibility for review and oversight of the Companys Committee, report to the Chief Financial Officer but have direct periodic reporting.
17 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 18 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements access to the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Effective Internal Audit The internal review of the Companys the other members of the Audit Committee.
They also both attend control procedures and compliance with them is mostly and present regularly at Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit programme, considers the findings The Companys risk management and internal audit strategy of internal audit reviews and managements response to them, and is based on a risk and control framework containing the following ensures efficient co-ordination between the Companys internal key elements: and external auditors.
The Companys internal audit function, comprising a mixture of internal and out-sourced resource, was an effective control environment: operational throughout 2004.
A new Director of Internal Audit was appointed in 2004 and this appointment was approved by the an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: Audit Committee.
The majority of internal audit work during 2004 has been concentrated on internal financial controls and on effective internal control procedures: and achieving compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements.
The Audit Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the activity effective internal audit.
of the internal audit function, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit during 2004.
Effective Control Environment The key elements of the Companys control environment are as follows: i the Board has 3 External auditing overall responsibility to maintain the internal control system and The Audit Committee has the primary responsibility for has delegated certain responsibilities to the Executive Committee determining the remuneration of and overseeing the work of any and or the Audit Committee: ii a framework of Corporate Values accounting firm engaged to conduct the external audit.
The Audit and Company-wide Code of Ethics which sets appropriate Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and standards of ethical behaviour is operational throughout the Group: independence of the external auditor taking into account relevant iii the internal structure of the organisation is well documented regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee reviews and with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different approves the annual external audit plan each year and ensures it is matters: iv a range of corporate policies and procedures have consistent with the scope of the auditors engagement.
The Audit been implemented: v the internal audit department, overseen Committee also consider whether the skills and experience of the by the Director of Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews external audit firm make it a suitable supplier of non-audit services.
of control activities and report findings to management: vi the The Audit Committee set and apply a formal policy in relation to Audit Committee considers the major findings of any internal the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor investigations and managements response to them.
specifying the types of non-audit work: i for which the external auditors are excluded: ii for which the external auditors can be Effective Identification, Assessment and Management of Risks engaged without referral to the Committee: and iii for which a The management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the case by case decision is necessary, with a view to preserving the Company creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee also the Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating considers the fees paid to the external auditor and whether the and managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in aggregate, been in operation throughout the period under review and up to relative to the audit fee is appropriate to enable a proper audit to the date of the signing of the accounts.
All risks are recorded on be conducted.
a corporate risk schedule which allocates specific responsibility to members of the Executive Committee.
This schedule has been Going concern basis reviewed by the Audit Committee during 2004.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is Effective Internal Control Procedures The Company has a a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources system of control procedures.
Compliance with these procedures to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
is monitored through a system of internal review and regular For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising are basis in preparing the financial statements.
reported to the Audit Committee.
During 2004, the Company has made a significant investment in its internal financial control procedures as part of compliance with S404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements.
This has included the review, documentation and testing of all key internal financial controls.
The conclusion of this exercise is that the Company had an effective system of internal controls over its US GAAP Form 10-K financial reporting at 31 December 2004.
