CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMBINED CODE aims to ensure that the the UK business.
The ABP board consists The board of directors is responsible boards decisions are based on of the Group Chief Executive, the Group for and committed to the maintenance consensus.
The Company Secretary Finance Director, the six Port Managing of the highest standards of corporate would minute any unresolved concerns Directors for the groups UK operating governance throughout the group.
Were a director units, the Group Property Director and the It supports the principles of good to resign over an unresolved issue, the Group Engineering Director.
governance laid down in the updated Chairman would bring the issue to the Combined Code on Corporate attention of the board.
The AMPORTS board manages Governance the Combined Code, operational matters relating to the which became effective for the group The company indemnifies directors for groups business in the USA.
It comprises on 1 January 2004. claims made against them in relation to the Group Chief Executive, the Group their duties, with the exception of any Finance Director, the AMPORTS Chief The listing rules of the UK Financial losses incurred as a result of their wilful Executive Officer and the AMPORTS Chief Services Authority require UK-listed negligence.
Insurance cover, with an Financial Officer.
companies to report on their application annual limit of up to 25m, is maintained of the principles of good governance and in respect of potential legal action against The executive directors and the boards of the extent of their compliance with the the directors.
ABP and AMPORTS operate within clearly provisions set out in Section 1 of the defined limits of authority and must refer Combined Code.
This statement provides BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES AND any matters outside these limits to the details on how the group has applied MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE board for its consideration.
these principles and complied with the The schedule of matters reserved for the detailed provisions of Section 1 of the board includes: BOARD PROCESS Combined Code.
For ease of reference, its In addition to maintaining close dialogue 14 main principles have been used as the Health and safety policy between meetings, the board meets headings in this statement.
Annual budgets eight times a year in the normal course Strategic plans of business and once a year to review 1.
THE BOARD Payment of dividends strategy.
Board meetings are held at COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Reporting to shareholders head office and at the groups port The board comprises a non-executive Approval of acquisitions and locations around the UK.
Figure 1 details Chairman, five independent nondivestments the attendance of individual directors at executive directors and two executive Approval of major capital expenditure board and committee meetings held directors.
Chris Clark replaced Ross projects during 2004.
Sayers, who retired on 21 April 2004, as Consideration of significant financing.
Aubrey Adams was asked by the The board is also responsible for board to fill the role of non-executive ensuring the successful development Chairman on a temporary basis between of the group, which it addresses by: 21 April 2004 and 1 August 2004.
Bo Lerenius is the Group Chief Executive.
Setting the strategic direction Andrew Simon became the Senior Establishing high standards of Independent Director SID in April 2003. behaviour It is intended that Aubrey Adams should Establishing policies and internal succeed Andrew Simon as SID following controls to safeguard the groups assets the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Developing robust corporate governance Further details on the roles, backgrounds and risk management procedures and other commitments of all of the Supervising management directors are set out on pages 74 to 75.
Monitoring operational performance Establishing and maintaining an The quality of the non-executive directors, appropriate structure to ensure that each of whom has a suitable background the group is able to deliver on its and offers relevant experience, ensures statutory obligations that they are able to challenge and help Succession planning.
develop proposals on group strategy, scrutinise performance and controls and The board of Associated British Ports ensure the maintenance of robust ABP, the groups principal subsidiary, governance standards.
The Chairman manages operational matters relating to 80 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE FIGURE 1 STRATEGY AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION 1 2 3 4 BOARD DAY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE TOTAL NUMBER OF MEETINGS 81346 5 5 Chris Clark Chairman 4 1 N a 1 1 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Bo Lerenius Group Chief Executive 8 1 N a 4 N a Richard Adam Group Finance Director 8 1 N a N a N a NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Aubrey Adams 81346 Tim Bowdler 71346 6 Stuart Chambers 8 1 1 35 7 Derek Sach 60245 5 5 Ross Sayers 2 N a N a 1 4 Andrew Simon 81346 1 The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary also attended all board meetings 2 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit partner, the Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary also attended meetings of the Committee 3 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the Company Secretary also attended the meetings of the Committee 4 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary also attended some of the meetings of the Committee 5 Both Ross Sayers and Chris Clark attended all board and committee meetings held during their terms as directors 6 Stuart Chambers attended the one Audit Committee meeting held following his appointment to the Committee 7 Occasionally, the board also invites senior members of the operational management team and its advisors to present on specific subjects or issues.
As the Royal Bank of Scotland participated in the new bank facility taken out during the year, Derek Sach, who is a senior executive of the bank, was excluded from the boards deliberations in respect of this matter Also during the year, in the absence of the Executive.
The Chairman is primarily size and complexity of its operations.
executive directors, the Chairman met with responsible for the effective running of the the non-executive directors on one occasion board, while the Group Chief Executive is The SID is available to shareholders if and the Audit Committee held discussions tasked with running the business.
they have concerns which have not been with the external audit partner and the resolved through the normal channels of Head of Internal Audit on two occasions.
BOARD BALANCE contact with the Chairman, Group Chief AND INDEPENDENCE Executive or Group Finance Director, or 2.
CHAIRMAN AND The balance of executive and non-executive for which such contact is inappropriate.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE directors on the board and the skills and No such concerns were raised during the Chris Clark, who was appointed Chairman experience they possess help to ensure year ended 31 December 2004. on 1 August 2004, met the independence that the board operates as a team and criteria on his appointment as set out in the precludes an individual or group from Figure 2, together with the supporting Combined Code and has a clearly defined dominating its decisions.
The company narrative, provides details of the set of responsibilities that are separate considers the total number and balance of companys assessment on the from those of Bo Lerenius, Group Chief directors to be appropriate in view of the independence of its current directors.
FIGURE 2 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS NUMBER OF AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION YEARS ON BOARD INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Richard Adam 5 No No No No Aubrey Adams 8 Yes Chairman Yes Yes Tim Bowdler 4 Yes Yes Yes Yes Stuart Chambers 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes Chris Clark nil No No Chairman No Bo Lerenius 6 No No Yes No Derek Sach 7 Yes Yes Yes Chairman Andrew Simon 10 Yes Yes Yes Yes Chris Clark is not considered to be independent by virtue of his role as Chairman.
Chris Clark resigned as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 19 October 2004 to enable the group to comply with the updated requirements of the Combined Code.
ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Notwithstanding his presence on the meets as and when necessary but at least 6.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION board for a period of more than nine once a year.
During 2004, the independent nonyears, the board considers Andrew Simon, executive directors, led by the SID, met to who continues to be a valuable member of During 2004, the Committee met four assess the Chairmans performance.
The the board, to be independent in character times and managed the process by which Chairman and non-executive directors and judgement.
Andrew brings a wealth of Chris Clark was appointed Chairman.
It evaluated the effectiveness of the experience to the boards deliberations prepared a job specification to assess the executive directors.
The board as a whole and is considered to be free from any suitability of potential candidates and conducted a formal evaluation of its own business or other relationship that could used an external consultancy in its performance, the performance of its materially interfere with his independent search.
Chris Clarks external committees and the performance of judgement.
It should be noted that, responsibilities as non-executive Deputy individual directors.
This evaluation following the changes made to the groups Chairman at Rexam plc and a nonprocess was developed in conjunction executive management team in 1999, executive director of FKI plc were taken with external consultants in 2003.
The Andrew has not worked with the current into account prior to his appointment.
2004 evaluations were conducted executive team for a period of more than The terms and conditions of appointment internally, as current policy is to use nine years.
agreed with Chris, which included an external consultants every third year.
indication of the time commitment Assessments as to the effectiveness of Derek Sach, who provides the board with expected from him, are available for the board and its committees take into expertise in banking and treasury inspection at 150 Holborn, London, account factors such as composition, matters, is a senior executive of the EC1N 2LR and at the AGM, along with the information, expertise and procedures.
Royal Bank of Scotland plc, one of the terms and conditions of appointment of The output from this process has been groups key relationship banks.
In order to the other non-executive directors.
used to highlight areas of strength and avoid any possible conflict of interest, he weakness and will be kept under does not participate in any decisions 5.
INFORMATION AND consideration in the future development relating to the selection of the groups PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT of the board and its committees.
banking relationships or procurement of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring any financing or derivative instruments that board members receive accurate, 7.
RE-ELECTION from any financial institution.
He is also timely and clear information.
To enable All directors are subject to election by excluded by the Royal Bank of Scotland the board to discharge its duties shareholders at the first opportunity after plc from any decisions that relate to the effectively, board members are provided appointment and to re-election every group.
The board considers Derek to be with background details on all agenda three years.
As he has been a nonindependent in character and judgement items prior to each board meeting.
executive director for more than 10 years, as he is free from any business or other Andrew Simon is now subject to annual relationship that could materially All directors have access to the advice re-election.
Details of directors submitted interfere with his independent judgement.
and services of the Company Secretary, for re-election at the forthcoming AGM who is responsible for ensuring that are provided in the directors report.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD board procedures are followed.
Any Biographies of the directors proposed for The groups Nomination Committee is director may also take independent re-election, together with the boards responsible for succession planning and professional advice in furtherance of his argument for their re-election and the ensuring that all appointments to the duties at the companys expense.
Chairmans confirmation of their board are objective.
In making its continued effective performance, will be recommendations, the Committee takes The background information on the group provided to shareholders in the papers into account the balance of skills, that new directors receive includes board accompanying the re-election resolution.
knowledge and experience of the board papers from recent meetings, details of and uses external search firms or open recent operating performance, annual 8.
REMUNERATION advertising to compile shortlists of budgets and strategic plans and analysts Details of the directors remuneration, as candidates for board membership.
The group also encourages newly required to be disclosed under the appointed directors to visit the ports and Combined Code and the Directors Membership of the Nomination other operational areas.
Any directors Remuneration Report Regulation 2002, Committee is set out on page 81. without previous public company board are set out in the remuneration report on Its terms of reference, which, in addition experience would receive training on their pages 86 to 92. to the responsibilities noted above, roles and responsibilities.
All directors include reviewing the size, structure are permitted to undertake subsequent and composition of the board, are training relevant to their duties at the available from the groups website at companys expense.
The Committee 82 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE 9.
FINANCIAL REPORTING INTERNAL CONTROL and principal controls.
This questionnaire The board places a great deal of During 2004 and up to the date of is part of the risk management process emphasis on ensuring that all approval of this annual report, procedures and is reviewed by the internal audit communications with shareholders were in place throughout the group to function.
The results, which are present a balanced and transparent ensure compliance with the report of the presented to the Audit Committee, assessment of the groups position and Turnbull Committee Internal Control: complement the existing internal and prospects.
The board, or a subGuidance for Directors on the Combined external audit procedures.
committee of the board, reviews and Code.
The key components of the approves results announcements, interim groups system of internal control are RISK MANAGEMENT reports, annual reports, corporate social described below.
As recommended by the Turnbull responsibility reports, AGM updates and Committee, the group maintains a risk trading updates prior to their release.
The group has in place clearly defined management working group to identify lines of responsibility and limits of the major risks facing the group and to The directors statement of delegated authority.
Comprehensive formalise the groups risk objectives and responsibilities in respect of the procedures provide for the appraisal, risk management processes.
This preparation of financial statements is set approval, control and review of capital working group comprises senior out on page 76 and the auditors expenditure.
executives from the groups operations statement on the respective and is chaired by the Group Finance responsibilities of directors and auditors The Group Chief Executive, the Group Director.
Its recommendations are is included within their report on page 77.
Finance Director and senior operational reviewed and updated annually and have and financial managers meet on a been agreed by the board.
After making enquiries, the directors regular basis to discuss particular issues believe that the group and the company affecting each business unit, including The embedded risk management have adequate resources to continue to their major risks.
processes described below take into operate for the foreseeable future.
For account the significance of any potential this reason, they continue to adopt the The group maintains a comprehensive social, environmental or ethical issues going concern basis in preparing the annual planning and management applicable to the groups operations.
A detailed annual These processes enable the board to budget is prepared in advance of each receive timely information on all 10.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND year and is supplemented by revised significant risks and facilitate the RISK MANAGEMENT forecasts during the course of the year.
The board has overall responsibility for In addition, a three-year strategic plan is All risks, including significant social, the groups system of internal control and updated annually.
Actual financial results environmental or ethical risks, which for reviewing its effectiveness.
Through its are reported monthly and compared to could impact on the groups shortor Audit Committee, it keeps the internal budget, revised forecasts and prior-year long-term objectives, are identified, control systems described below under results.
The board reviews all reports quantified, assessed for likelihood and review and has in place ongoing for approval.
In addition to processes for identifying, evaluating and the summary included within the managing the significant risks the group The internal audit function supports the operating and financial review on pages faces.
In addition, it conducts an annual directors in assessing the effectiveness of 36 to 39, further information on the assessment of the key controls designed internal controls at each business unit groups performance in relation to the to manage risks and of its risk through a pre-agreed audit programme.
management of its wider risks is provided management systems.
It should be noted This programme addresses the full through its annual corporate social that a sound system of internal control spectrum of the groups potential risks responsibility reports.
reduces, but cannot eliminate, risks in by undertaking reviews in areas such as achieving business objectives.
While health and safety, environment, The groups overall risk management subject to regular review and update, it information technology and financial objective is to take such strategic and should be recognised that the groups controls.
Where control weaknesses are commercial risks as to enable it to grow systems can provide only reasonable, and identified, corrective action is taken and, the business through a thorough not absolute, assurance against material where appropriate, communicated to understanding of the risks and responses misstatement or loss.
other operating units to encourage and required for success.
The groups enhance best practice around the group.
definition of risk is an uncertainty or event that could, unless effectively Every year, each operating unit completes managed, significantly affect Associated a control self-assessment questionnaire British Ports Holdings PLCs ability to that measures and assesses risk areas achieve its current or future objectives.
ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The group regards its major risk 11.
AUDIT COMMITTEES AND AUDITORS partner and the Head of Internal Audit in management objectives as: In 1993, the board established an Audit between Committee meetings.
Committee to oversee financial reporting To ensure that the health and safety of and internal control matters and to In December 2003, the Committee its employees and other persons is not maintain appropriate relationships with reviewed the groups policy on put at risk by its operations the companys auditors.
Details of the whistleblowing and agreed a policy on the members of the Audit Committee, all of payment of non-audit fees and the To continue to avoid disasters or whom are independent non-executive employment of former employees of the catastrophes by managing those directors, are set out on page 81. auditor.
The annual limits on the fees that physical and other risks that have may be incurred on the procurement of the potential to damage significantly The Committee is chaired by Aubrey non-audit services without prior approval the financial position of the group, Adams, a qualified chartered accountant from the Committee are as set out in its reputation or its ability to who has worked previously as the Group figure 3. provide services Finance Director of a UK-listed company and is considered to possess recent and FIGURE 3 To identify, assess and prioritise relevant financial experience.
Aubrey opportunities to grow the business, receives additional remuneration to TYPE OF WORK ANNUAL LIMIT having regard for the need to manage compensate him for his additional Audit-related regulatory the groups commercial risks responsibilities as the chairman.
The reporting, including interim terms of reference for the Audit review, covenant reporting and In operating its business, to endeavour Committee, which include all of the other audit certificates 100,000 to meet the demands of trade recommendations set out in The Smith Further assurance, including while having due regard for the Guidance, are available from the groups advice on accounting matters, potential impact of its activities on website at www.
non-regulatory reporting on the environment internal controls or corporate Appointments to the Committee are made governance, due diligence work To ensure that it has in place by the board at the recommendation of the and environmental audits 200,000 Tax compliance services 200,000 mechanisms to understand, monitor Nomination Committee and the Committee Tax advisory services 200,000 and manage its obligations to all of chairman.
All future appointments are its stakeholders.
expected to be for an initial period of up to three years, followed by no more than two The group aims to manage risk wherever additional three-year periods.
The company The Audit Committee undertook the possible by embedding processes and ensures that all Committee members are following work during 2004: ensuring controls to manage risk are familiar with their responsibilities by inherent in day-to-day operations.
To this providing regular briefing papers on Review of trading updates issued by end, monthly reports received by the developments in corporate governance and the group Group Chief Executive from the operating company reporting.
Review of the groups half-year and units cover key aspects of the business full-year results such as commercial matters, health and The Committee is entitled to seek Assessment of going concern basis safety issues, personnel issues, financial independent external advice at the Review of the nature, scope and results and future business prospects.
The Company Secretary resources planned for the full-year These reports also comment on existing acts as the secretary for the Audit audit, including external audit fee risks and identify specifically any Committee and, in conjunction with the Review of report from external emerging risks, along with actions being chairman of the Committee and the auditors following their 2003 year-end taken to manage them.
Risks, such as Group Finance Director, is responsible for audit and 2004 interim review health and safety and the environment, its effective running.
Approval of the internal audit plan for are further monitored by written reports the forthcoming financial year submitted to the board on a regular basis.
The chairman of the Committee may Review of reports from the Head of In addition, risk co-ordinators submit invite non-members to attend Committee Internal Audit at each of its three regular updates to risk management meetings.
Details of the attendees at meetings personnel at head office on risks relevant meetings held during 2004, and the Auditor independence review of nonto their operations.
meetings of the Committee with the Head audit fees of Internal Audit and the external audit Review of documentation to be used as partner, are provided on page 81.
The part of the assessments of effectiveness chairman of the Committee maintains of internal and external audit functions regular dialogue with the external audit planned for February 2005 84 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE Review of compliance with the The company issues trading statements Combined Code in advance of its close periods and Review of risk management systems provides an indication of trading at the and internal controls time of the AGM.
The groups Annual Review of disclosures in the annual Report & Accounts, preliminary and report in relation to risk management, interim announcements, trading internal control and workings of the statements and press releases are Audit Committee available on its website at Review of the Audit Committees terms www.
All communications of reference can be obtained in electronic form by Review of the audit representation e-mailing pr@abports.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM 12.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS All board members attend the AGM and, The board is committed to maintaining in particular, the chairmen of the Audit, good communications with shareholders.
Remuneration and Nomination Other than during close periods, the Committees are available to answer Group Chief Executive and the Group questions.
The Group Chief Executive and Finance Director maintain a regular the Group Finance Director give dialogue with institutional shareholders shareholders a presentation on the throughout the year.
The executive groups results for the preceding year.
directors give presentations to Resolutions are proposed on each institutional shareholders and analysts substantially separate issue and the immediately after the announcement of agenda includes a resolution to adopt the the groups half-year and full-year groups Annual Report & Accounts.
These are subsequently made of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at available on the groups website.
The least 20 working days before the meeting.
group also encourages communications Details of the proxy votes for and against with private shareholders throughout the each resolution are announced after the year and welcomes their participation at result of the hand votes is known.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE The Group Chief Executive and Group PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE Finance Director also conduct one-to-one The board considers that the company has formal meetings with the groups key complied in full with the provisions set out shareholders following the in Section 1 of the updated Combined announcement of half-year and full-year Code throughout the year ending results.
The group obtains independent 31 December 2004, with the exception of feedback on these meetings through provision B.
2.1 before 19 October 2004, its corporate brokers.
This information when the Chairman was a member of the is circulated to all board members, Remuneration Committee.
along with other feedback received during the meetings.
The companys auditors,  LLP, The company aims to facilitate any are required to review whether the requests from shareholders for meetings above statement reflects the companys with board directors and responds formally compliance with the nine provisions of to all queries and requests for information the Combined Code specified for its from existing or potential shareholders.
review and to report if it does not reflect Chris Clark, Chairman, and Andrew such compliance.
No such report has Simon, SID, are also available to major been made.
shareholders to ensure that any potential concerns can be raised directly.
ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 85
