24 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Report of the Directors continued All employees may have the opportunity to participate in the Companys relevant pre-emption rights on the issue of new shares and to seek authority to share incentive schemes and the SkyePharma International Share Purchase purchase shares in the market subject to compliance with relevant statutory Plan described in the Remuneration Report.
Employee remuneration is and regulatory requirements.
The Company also proposes to ask Members determined on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee and Executive to approve the Remuneration Report of the Company.
Further information on Committee as appropriate.
The Group attracts and retains employees of the these proposals and on the Annual General Meeting is set out in the separate highest calibre by offering remuneration that is in line with that offered by letter from the Chairman, which explains the reasons for these resolutions industry competitors and local practice in the countries in which it operates.
and also contains the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Charitable and political donations Auditors No contributions were made to charities 2003: Nil.
No contributions were A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the made to political organisations 2003: Nil.
company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Close company provisions By order of the Board The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, and there have been no changes since the end of the year.
Douglas Parkhill Company Secretary Annual General Meeting 31 May 2005 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company proposes to seek the usual authority to issue shares, limited disapplication of the statutory Statement of Directors Responsibility in Relation to the Accounts The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the set out in the auditors report.
Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 are included accounting policies have been consistently applied and supported by in the Annual Report 2004, which is published by the Company in hard-copy reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates as necessary: applicable printed form and on the Companys website on the Internet.
The Directors are accounting standards have been followed, and the financial statements have responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the been prepared on the going concern basis.
website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
This may differ from legislation in other The Directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper jurisdictions.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial comparable legislation may be different.
position of the Company and the Group at any time and from which accounts can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for ensuring the operation of systems of internal control for Ian Gowrie-Smith safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to Non-executive Chairman prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
