2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 25 Corporate Governance The Combined Code New directors receive formal induction training, including site visits and The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and meetings, and on-going training is provided as appropriate.
Directors also the Board considers that during 2004 the Company complied with all relevant receive regular updates on changes and developments in the business, principles and provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance legislative and regulatory environments.
the Code published in July 2003.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary The Board and are able in the course of their duties, if necessary, to take independent The Board of SkyePharma PLC is responsible for the Groups system of corporate professional advice at the Companys expense.
Committees have access to governance and internal control and is accountable for its activities throughout such resources as are required to fulfil their duties.
The Board comprises two Executive and eight Non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and are held by different The Board meets regularly throughout the year, and during 2004 eight formal people to ensure a clear division of responsibility.
The role of Non-executive meetings were held.
These were fully attended, except that Steve Harris was Directors is to bring independent judgement to Board deliberations and decisions.
unable to attend one meeting and Torao Yamamoto was unable to attend six The Non-executive Directors are all experienced and influential individuals whose meetings.
Alan Bray attended all meetings from the date of his appointment.
blend of skills and business experience contributes to the proper functioning of the board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and The Chairman, Ian Gowrie-Smith, is primarily responsible for the effective that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
operation and chairing of the Board and for ensuring that it receives appropriate information to make informed judgements.
The Board has a The Executive and Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement by formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates rotation and re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of specific responsibilities to Committees, as described below.
The terms of Association whereby one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and are also available on request from the Company The Board considers all of the Companys Non-executive Directors to be Secretary.
The board is responsible for decisions, and the review and approval independent with the exception of Ian Gowrie-Smith by reason of his of key policies and decisions, in respect of business strategy and operating shareholding and previous executive employment with the Group, and plans, board and management appointments, substantial investments and Mr Yamamoto by reason of the business relationship between Kowa Company commitments, finance, risk management and business control.
Limited, of which he is a director, and the Group.
The Board considers that the remaining Non-executive Directors are independent both in judgement The Non-executive Directors meet independently of management, and also and character and that they carry out their duties in an independent manner meet with the Chairman independently of management, on a regular basis.
and provide constructive challenge to decisions.
Mr Torao Yamamoto will The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is available to shareholders retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
if they request a meeting, or have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Code requires that the Board should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent notwithstanding that the director has served on the Management and Board Committees board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
The Board The Group Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day management has considered the length of time which Sir Michael Beavis has served as of the Group.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and comprises the a Non-executive Director.
He has been on the Board of the Company that Executive Directors and other Senior Managers.
The Committee generally meets formed SkyePharma since 1995 although he was first appointed to the Board monthly and informs the Board of key issues via the Chief Executive Officer.
In the opinion of the Board he is considered to be independent and, as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director of the Company, continues The Audit Committee consists of four Non-executive Directors: Alan Bray, to bring an impartiality of mind to the Boards decision making processes.
Sir Michael Beavis, Dr David Ebsworth and Dr Jerry Karabelas, all of whom Dr Keith Mansford and Steve Harris have each served nine years on the the Board has determined to be independent.
The Committee is chaired by Companys Board.
In the opinion of the Board these directors are independent Alan Bray, a chartered accountant who, in the opinion of the Board, has recent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could and relevant financial experience as recommended in the Code.
The external materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Following the auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director are normally invited performance evaluation of individual directors the Chairman has confirmed to attend meetings and, following each meeting, the Committee and external that the Non-executive Directors standing for re-election at this years AGM auditors meet with no executives present.
continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Biographical details are provided with the Notice of Meeting and it is the During the year the Audit Committee met formally three times.
The meetings intention of the Board and the Nomination Committee to continue to review were fully attended by all Committee members and the conclusions were the structure and membership of the Board during the coming year.
presented to the full Board.
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year results and the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts prior to their During 2004 a formal evaluation was undertaken of the Boards performance submission to the Board and considered any matters raised by the external and that of its Committees, assessing their respective roles, performance auditors.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys internal and terms of reference.
Each directors performance was evaluated by the financial controls and reviewed the Companys Complaints and Whistleblowing chairman based on input from all other directors.
The Chairmans performance procedure established in 2003. was evaluated by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, taking account of the views of the executive directors.
The Audit Committee reviews on an annual basis the need for an internal audit It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its performance and function.
In 2004, in common with other companies of its size and complexity that of its Committees and individual directors.
of operation, the Company did not operate an internal audit function, however 26 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance continued following review and recommendation by the Audit Committee, an internal business sector.
SkyePharma has established an organisational structure audit risk management function was created in April 2005. with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority.
All Group employees are required to adhere to specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures.
The identification and appraisal of risks is carried out through It is the Groups policy to employ the auditors on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets and through Group are important, principally tax advice and due diligence reporting on the close monitoring of operations.
acquisitions, or where they are awarded assignments on a competitive basis.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all permitted non-audit expenditure Financial results and key operational and financial performance indicators are incurred and during the year reviewed the cost-effectiveness, independence reported regularly throughout the year and variances from plans and budgets and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee recommended to are investigated and reported.
The Group has a system of high-level financial the Board the reappointment of the Companys external auditors.
control procedures which are supplemented by detailed procedures at each operating entity.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored by the During the year a formal evaluation was carried out of the Audit Committees corporate office supplemented by external audit.
effectiveness and terms of reference and it is intended to continue to undertake this review on an annual basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management as they operated during the The Remuneration Committee consists of Sir Michael Beavis, who chairs year.
The Board receives regular reports on areas of significant risk to the the Committee, Dr David Ebsworth, Steve Harris and Dr Keith Mansford.
Company, and on related internal controls.
In addition to its consideration The Committee met three times during the year and all meetings were of these reports the Board reviews annually the overall framework and fully attended.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee seeks the advice of Halliwell Consulting, an independent executive remuneration and share schemes consultancy which provides Going Concern no other services to the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer may be After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when the Group and the Company have adequate cash resources to continue in his own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in deciding operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue his own remuneration.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The scope and authority of the Committee and the means by which the Relations with shareholders Company applies the principles of the Code in respect of remuneration policy It is the objective of SkyePharmas Board and of its investor relations team are set out in the Remuneration Report which is presented on pages 27 to 39 to ensure a timely, open, comprehensive and consistent flow of information of the Report and Accounts.
to investors and the financial community.
By this means we aim to help investors to understand the Companys activities and strategic objectives and During the year a formal evaluation was carried out of the Remuneration thereby facilitate the Companys access to capital markets.
All management Committees effectiveness and terms of reference and it is intended to presentations to institutional investors and analysts are simultaneously continue to undertake this review on an annual basis.
made available on our website www.
com so that private investors have equal access.
We also webcast our regular meetings and The Nomination Committee consists of Ian Gowrie-Smith, who chairs the teleconferences with analysts and investors and, wherever possible, our Committee, Alan Bray from 2 February 2005, Steve Harris and Dr Jerry presentations at investment conferences.
The Committee keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition, identifies and nominates candidates for the approval of the Board SkyePharma takes a proactive stance on investor relations, with investor and ensures plans are put in place for succession of the executive directors.
relations offices in London and New York.
In 2004 we held 112 one-on-one meetings with shareholders or potential investors.
The vast majority During the year the Committee considered and made recommendations of these meetings included an executive management representative.
to the Board in respect of the appointment of Alan Bray as a Non-executive In addition SkyePharma participated in 16 investment conferences in Director, having taken into account the required blend of skills, knowledge the USA and Europe during the year.
The investor relations section of the and experience of the Board.
Given the specialist nature of the appointment Companys website attracted over 46,000 hits in 2004.
Regular monthly the Board undertook an extensive search for a suitable candidate, including reports to the Board include information on movements in the share register, discussions with a consultancy firm.
The Committee met once formally and details of meetings with institutional investors and changes in current the meeting was fully attended.
During the year a formal evaluation was analyst opinions and forecasts.
carried out of the Nomination Committees effectiveness and terms of reference and it is intended to continue to undertake this review on an annual basis.
Shareholders are welcome at the AGM where they will have an opportunity to meet the executive management team and Non-executive Directors.
The members of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are detailed on page 23.
Alan Bray Accountability and control Chairman, Audit Committee SkyePharma operates, and attaches importance to, clear principles and 31 May 2005 procedures designed to achieve the accountability and control appropriate to a science-based business operating internationally in a highly regulated
