CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE obligations to shareholders are met.
of the non-executive directors ensure The Company complied with the Combined Non-executive directors have a particular that they can debate and constructively Code, as appended to the April 2002 edition role in overseeing the development of challenge management in relation to both of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing strategy, scrutinising management the development of strategy and performance Authority, throughout the accounting period performance and ensuring the integrity against the goals set by the Board.
covered by this report, except that no senior of financial information and systems of independent director was recognised.
The Board is satisfied The Board normally meets formally reason for this non-compliance was that the that it has met these requirements.
at least eight times a year to make and Board considered that matters of concern review major business decisions and could readily be brought to the attention of During the last year several important monitor current trading against plans either Mr Orrell-Jones or Sir Colin Chandler changes have been made to the membership which it has approved.
It additionally who were Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board.
Mr Jackson and the Rt Hon exercises control by determining matters respectively during the period.
Sir Colin Lord Robertson of Port Ellen were appointed specifically reserved to it in a formal will retire as a director at the conclusion as non-executive directors on 1 December schedule which only the Board may change: of the Companys Annual General Meeting 2003 and 15 February 2004 respectively these matters include the acquisition of on 16 November 2004 and Mr Jackson has and Mr Brydon joined the Board as companies, the issue of shares, significant been appointed as the senior independent Chairman designate on 19 April 2004. contractual commitments, the review director with effect from 21 September 2004.
Upon the retirement from the Board of of the effectiveness of risk management Mr Orrell-Jones on 21 September 2004, processes and major capital expenditure.
A new Combined Code on Corporate Mr Brydon succeeded him as Chairman Once a year the Board meets in conference Governance new Code was introduced in and Mr Challen was appointed as a nonwith a particular focus on long-term July 2003 and will apply to listed companies executive director.
On the same date strategy and developments affecting with reporting years beginning on or after Mr Challen, who had been an observer at the Company.
Although the Company is Board and Board Committee Meetings since arranged as necessary to deal with not obliged to report on its compliance with 1 June 2004, succeeded Sir Colin Chandler urgent items.
the new Code until next year, it is confirmed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
that the Company currently complies with The Board sets the Companys values all the provisions of the new Code with As at 22 September 2004, the Board and standards and has approved a Code one exception that the Chairman is a comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, of Corporate Responsibility and Business member of the Remuneration Committee.
six other executive directors and seven nonEthics which is referred to in the Corporate The Board considers that the Chairman executive directors.
Mr Jackson is the senior Responsibility Review on page 26 of the should participate in decisions concerning independent director.
Biographies of the Annual Review.
remuneration of the executive members of directors, giving details of their experience the Board.
and other main commitments, are set out The Chairman meets the non-executive on page 25 of the Annual Review 2004.
The directors without the executive directors The new Code requires listed companies to wide ranging experience and backgrounds present at least three times per annum.
report how the main and supporting principles of the new Code have been applied, giving enough detail to enable shareholders to The following table shows the number of scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings evaluate the report, and to state whether held during the year ended 31 July 2004 and opposite each directors name the number of there has been compliance with the provisions meetings attended.
of the new Code, giving an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
Reference in Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number held 8466 this report to principles and provisions are to those of the new Code.
D H Brydon, Chairman 2 3 K Orrell-Jones, Former Chairman 866 The following headings are taken from the K O Butler-Wheelhouse 8 new Code there are 14 main principles, Sir Nigel Broomfield 8 3 3 6 6 21 supporting principles and 48 provisions Sir Colin Chandler 8 4 3 3 4 6 applying to listed companies.
J Ferrie 8 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 6 8 3 3 5 6 6 THE NEW CODE P J Jackson 6 6 1 1 Directors L H N Kinet 8 The Board J Langston 8 The first main principle requires the D P Lillycrop 8 Company to have an effective Board which E Lindh 8 is collectively responsible for its success.
R W OLeary 7 8 3 4 5 6 2 3 Supporting principles describe the Boards Lord Robertson 4 4 1 1 role to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of controls that allow A M Thomson 8 risk to be assessed and managed.
The the figure in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings the director could have attended in view of the period during which Board should set strategic aims and he was a Board or Committee member the Companys values, ensuring that indicates not a member of that Committee in 2003 04 4 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 Directors and officers of the Company and directors are encouraged to visit sites The senior independent director will meet its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors independently.
During site visits, briefings the non-executive directors without the and officers liability insurance policy.
are arranged and the Board is free to Chairman present in order to appraise the discuss aspects of the business with Chairmans performance.
Chairman and Chief Executive employees at all levels.
Another main principle requires a clear Re-election division of responsibilities between the Newly-appointed directors undergo a Under the new Code directors should running of the Board and executive structured induction programme to ensure offer themselves for re-election at regular responsibility for running the business, that they have the necessary knowledge intervals and there should be a planned so that no one person has unfettered and understanding of the Company and and progressive refreshing of the Board.
Starting at the time of their appointment, and continuing on an Non-executive directors are appointed The Board has met this requirement by incremental basis over the first six months, for a specified term of three years and establishing clearly defined roles for the they undertake briefing sessions on corporate reappointment for a second term is not Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, automatic.
In exceptional circumstances Chairman is responsible for leadership finance and risk management and HR and only after rigorous review, a nonof the Board, ensuring its effectiveness strategy, as well as meetings and site visits executive director may serve for a third and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the to business locations in the UK, the US and term.
Directors stand for reappointment by Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives continental Europe.
Each directors individual the shareholders at the first AGM following responsibility to ensure delivery of the experience and background is taken into their appointment and subsequently at strategic and financial objectives.
account in developing a programme tailored least every three years.
The report from to his own requirements.
the Nomination Committee set out on Board balance and independence page 7 explains the process for selection The Company complies with the requirement Ongoing training is provided as and when of directors and succession planning.
of the new Code that there should be a balance necessary.
The suitability of external courses of executive and non-executive directors is kept under review by the Company Remuneration such that no individual or small group can Secretary who is charged with facilitating Information regarding the Remuneration dominate the Boards decision taking.
the induction of new directors and with Committee is set out on page 7 and the assisting in the ongoing training and Directors Remuneration Report is on In deciding the chairmanship and development of directors.
pages 8 to 15. membership of the Board Committees, the need to refresh membership of the All directors have access to the advice Accountability and audit Committees is taken into account.
and services of the Company Secretary Financial reporting and a procedure is in place for them to The Board is required to present a balanced All of the non-executive directors are take independent professional advice at the and understandable assessment of the considered to be independent and Companys expense should this be required.
Companys position and prospects, not Mr Brydon was, in compliance with the only in the Directors Report and Financial new Code, considered independent at Performance evaluation Statements but also in the Annual Review the time of his appointment as Chairman.
The new Code requires the Board to Summary Financial Statement, in interim undertake a formal and rigorous annual reports and in price-sensitive announcements.
Appointments to the Board evaluation of its own performance and The Board is satisfied that it has met this The new Code requires there to be a formal, that of its Committees and the directors.
A summary of the directors rigorous and transparent procedure for the responsibilities for the financial statements appointment of new directors, which should Formal evaluations of the performance of the is set out on page 16. be made on merit and against objective Board and of the principal Board Committees criteria.
The Nomination Committee fulfils will be conducted by the Chairman in 2004 05.
The going concern statement required by these requirements and its report is set out The process will build on that developed in the new Code is set out in the Directors on page 7.
2003 04 when the effectiveness of the Board Report on page 2. and its Committees was reviewed covering Information and professional development composition, arrangements for and content Internal control Another main principle requires that of meetings, Committee terms of reference, The new Code requires the Company to information of appropriate quality is supplied director training and visits to operating sites, maintain a sound system of internal control to the Board in a timely manner and that, in access to information and administrative to safeguard shareholders investment and addition to induction programmes on joining procedures.
As in 2003 04, the results of the the Companys assets.
The Board must the Company, directors should regularly evaluation will be reported to the Board and review the effectiveness of the internal update their skills and knowledge.
agreed recommendations for improvement control system at least annually, covering will be implemented.
all material controls, including financial, The Board is provided with detailed operational and compliance controls and information several days in advance on Evaluation of the non-executive directors risk management systems, and report to matters to be considered at its meetings was undertaken by the executive directors shareholders that they have done so.
The and non-executive directors have ready in 2003 04 and evaluation of individual Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing access to the executive directors.
Regular directors in their role as members of the Authority, provides guidance for compliance site visits are arranged and non-executive Board will be conducted in 2004 05. with that part of the new Code.
SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Companys internal control is based Audit Committee and Auditors BOARD COMMITTEES on assessment of risk and a framework of A principle of the new Code is that the Board The full terms of reference of the following control procedures to manage risks and to should establish formal and transparent Board Committees are available upon monitor compliance with procedures.
The arrangements for considering how it should request and on the Companys website.
procedures for accountability and control, apply the financial reporting and internal which accord with the guidance on internal control principles and for maintaining an Audit Committee control issued by the Turnbull Committee, appropriate relationship with the external From 1 August 2003 to 9 March 2004 are outlined below.
the Audit Committee comprised This obligation is satisfied through the work Sir Colin Chandler, as Chairman of The Board accepts its responsibility for of the Audit Committee which is described the Committee, Sir Nigel Broomfield, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness on this page.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Mr OLeary.
of the Companys internal control systems.
With effect from 9 March 2004 the These are designed to meet the Companys Relations with shareholders membership of the Audit Committee particular needs and the risks to which it is Dialogue with shareholders changed to comprise Sir Colin, who exposed and, by their nature, can provide only The Company is required to have a dialogue continued to chair the Committee, reasonable, not absolute, assurance against with shareholders, based on the mutual Mr Jackson, Mr OLeary and Lord Robertson.
material loss to the Company or material understanding of objectives, and it is the Mr Challen joined the Board and succeeded misstatement in the financial accounts.
responsibility of the Board as a whole to Sir Colin as Chairman of the Committee ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does on 21 September 2004.
The membership of The Group has an embedded process take place.
the Committee with effect from that date is for the identification, evaluation and indicated on page 25 of the Annual Review.
management of significant business The new Code recognises that primary risks.
The process is reviewed through contacts are likely to be by the Chief Executive Under its terms of reference, the the Audit Committee and monitored by and the Financial Director but requires the Committee monitors the integrity of the Group Internal Audit Department.
The Chairman and senior independent director, the Companys financial statements and Company has during the year identified and other directors as appropriate, to the effectiveness of the external audit and evaluated the key risks under three maintain contact with major shareholders process.
It is responsible for ensuring categories strategic: operational: and in order to understand their concerns.
that an appropriate relationship between information and has ensured that the Company and the external auditors is effective controls and procedures are The Financial Director and the Director, maintained, including reviewing non-audit in place to manage these risks.
Investor Relations, communicate with services and fees.
It also reviews annually institutional investors through analysts the Groups systems of internal control In the highly regulated environment of the briefings and extensive investor roadshows and the processes for monitoring and aerospace, medical and detection industries, in the UK, US and continental Europe, as evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The procedures are codified in detailed operating well as timely Stock Exchange Committee reviews the effectiveness of the procedures manuals and are reinforced by announcements, meetings with internal audit function and is responsible for regular educational programmes.
These are management and site visits.
Members of approving the appointment and removal of designed to ensure not only compliance with the Board, and in particular non-executive the Director, Internal Audit.
The Committee the regulatory requirements but also with directors, are kept informed of investors will review annually its terms of reference the general principles of business integrity.
views in the main through distribution of and its effectiveness and recommend to the analysts and brokers briefings.
At least Board any changes required as a result of A key element in any system is communication twice a year a report is made to the Board such review.
and a number of committees enable the on the number and types of meetings executive directors and senior corporate between the Company and institutional In the year to 31 July 2004, the Audit staff to address financial, human resource, shareholders.
The Chairman is available in Committee discharged its responsibilities risk management and other control issues.
the event of shareholder concerns which by reviewing: Experience is shared by subsidiaries through cannot be addressed through management.
the Groups 2003 financial statements company-wide seminars.
At the time of appointment of new nonand 2004 interim results statement executive directors they are available to prior to Board approval and the external Throughout the year the Board has reviewed meet shareholders on request.
auditors detailed reports thereon: the effectiveness of internal control and the the potential impact on the Groups management of risks at its regular Board Constructive use of the AGM financial statements of the proposed meetings.
In addition to financial and All directors normally attend the Companys International Financial Reporting business reports, the Board has reviewed AGM and shareholders are invited to ask Standards: medium and longer-term strategic plans: questions during the meeting and to meet the audit fee and non-audit fees payable capital expenditure and development directors after the formal proceedings have to the Groups external auditors: programmes: management and product ended.
Shareholders at the meeting are the external auditors effectiveness and development programmes: reports on advised as to the level of proxy votes their plan for the audit of the Groups key operational issues: tax: treasury: risk received including the percentages for and 2003 04 accounts, which included management: insurance: legal matters: against and the abstentions in respect of confirmations of auditor independence and Audit Committee reports, including each resolution following each vote on a and the proposed audit fee, and approving internal and external auditor reports.
the terms of engagement for the audit: 6 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 an annual report on the Groups systems Broomfield, Sir Colin Chandler, Sir Julian appointment as directors of the Company of internal control and their effectiveness, Horn-Smith and Mr OLeary.
With effect and as Company Secretary, giving full reporting to the Board on the results of from 9 March 2004, the Board resolved to consideration to succession planning and the review and receiving regular updates allocate the functions of this Committee to the leadership needs of the Group.
It also on key risk areas of financial control: two new committees the Remuneration makes recommendations to the Board on the the risks associated with major business Committee and the Nomination Committee.
composition of the Nomination Committee programmes: and The Remuneration Committee comprised, and the composition and chairmanship of the internal audit functions terms of from that date until 21 September 2004, the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
reference, its 2003 04 work programme Sir Julian Horn-Smith, as Chairman of the It reviews regularly the structure, size and and regular reports on its work during Committee, Mr Orrell-Jones, Sir Nigel composition of the Board, including the the year.
The membership balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Committee with effect from and the independence of the non-executive The Committee has authority to investigate 21 September 2004 is indicated on page 25 directors, and makes recommendations to any matters within its terms of reference, of the Annual Review.
the Board with regard to any changes.
to access resources, to call for information and to obtain external professional advice The Committees responsibilities are The Committee meets periodically when at the cost of the Company.
described in the Directors Remuneration required.
No person other than members Report on page 8. of the Committee is entitled to be present at No one other than the members of the meetings but the Chief Executive is normally Committee is entitled to be present at The Committee meets periodically when invited to attend and external advisers may meetings.
However, the Chief Executive, required but at least three times per be invited by the Committee to attend.
Financial Director, General Counsel, Group annum.
No person other than the members Financial Controller, Director, Internal Audit of the Committee is entitled to be present The Committee has access to such and the external auditors are normally at meetings but the Chief Executive is information and advice both from within invited to attend.
Others may be invited to normally invited to attend and external the Group and externally, at the cost of the attend by the Committee.
At least once a advisers may be invited by the Committee Company, as it deems necessary.
This may year, there is an opportunity for the external to attend.
No executive is present when include the appointment of external executive auditors and the Director, Internal Audit, the Committee considers matters relating search consultants, where appropriate.
to discuss matters with the Committee to himself or acts in matters relating to The Committee will review annually its without any executive management being himself.
The Chairman is absent when terms of reference and effectiveness and present.
Both the Director, Internal Audit his remuneration is under discussion.
recommend to the Board any changes and the external auditors have direct access required as a result of such review.
to the Chairman of the Committee outside The Committee has access to such formal Committee meetings.
information and advice both from within The procedures referred to above were the Group and externally, at the cost of used by the Nomination Committee The Audit Committee has the specific the Company, as it deems necessary.
and its predecessor, the Nominations task of keeping under review the nature It is responsible for appointing any and Remuneration Committee, in the and extent of non-audit services provided consultants in respect of executive appointment of Messrs Brydon, Challen by the external auditors in order to ensure directors remuneration.
The Committee and Jackson and Lord Robertson as nonthat objectivity and independence are will review annually its terms of reference executive directors and for the appointment maintained.
Under the audit independence and effectiveness and recommend to the of Mr Brydon as Chairman with effect policy, approved by the Committee, certain Board any changes required as a result from 21 September 2004.
This included non-audit services may not be provided by of such reviews.
an assessment of the time commitment the external auditors, certain services require expected from the director and, for the the approval of the Financial Director and Nomination Committee Chairman, recognising the need for his other services require the approval of the As mentioned above, with effect from availability in the event of major corporate Chairman of the Committee.
Where the 9 March 2004, the Board resolved to action.
Independent executive search cost of the services is expected to exceed allocate the functions of the Nominations consultants were used in connection 100,000, the engagement will normally be and Remuneration Committee to two with each appointment.
Mr Orrell-Jones, subject to competitive tender.
The external new committees the Remuneration the former Chairman, was not a member auditors have in place processes to ensure Committee and the Nomination Committee.
of the Nomination Committee panel which their independence is maintained including The Nomination Committee comprised, recommended to the Board the appointment safeguards to ensure that where they do from that date until 21 September 2004, of Mr Brydon as his successor.
provide non-audit services, their independence Mr Orrell-Jones, as Chairman of the is not threatened.
They have written to the Committee, Sir Colin Chandler, Sir Nigel Audit Committee confirming that, in their Broomfield and Sir Julian Horn-Smith.
The opinion, they are independent.
membership of the Committee with effect from 21 September 2004 is indicated on Remuneration Committee page 25 of the Annual Review.
From 1 August 2003 to 9 March 2004 there was a joint Nominations and Remuneration The Committee leads the process for Committee comprising Mr Orrell-Jones, identifying, and makes recommendations as Chairman of the Committee, Sir Nigel to the Board regarding, candidates for SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 7
