Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance The Board meets not less than four times a year.
Five meetings were contained in the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the held during 2004, four of which had a 100% attendance.
The fifth Code which are appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services meeting was attended by all directors other than John Hollis.
Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Matters are delegated to the audit and remuneration committees, as Statement about applying Principles of Good Governance appropriate, including those detailed below.
Being a small Board, the The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out nomination and appointment of new directors is a matter for the Board in section 1 of the Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as a whole.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with directors The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as a director of the Company.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice For some years the Company has purchased insurance to cover its The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December directors and officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil 2004 with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect 1 of the Code except as detailed below.
As Executive Chairman, Alasdair of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Locke has certain strategic responsibilities often associated with a Chief To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company also indemnifies its Executive Officer CEO.
The Board believes this to be appropriate since, directors and officers.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provide due to his significant shareholding, Alasdair Lockes interests are closely cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
aligned with those of most other shareholders.
Responsibility for operational matters rests with the appropriate executive directors.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys John Hollis, as the nominated senior non-executive, together with expense.
In addition all directors have access to the advice and services Robert Duncan, Geoffrey Philipps and George Watkins, provide strong of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board independent advice.
The Board consider these four non-executive directors procedures are complied with.
to be independent as they hold only minimal shareholdings and, other than remuneration for their services as non-executives, have no other The appointment of the company secretary is a matter for the Board related interests in the Group.
Michael Salter is the nominated director as a whole.
responsible for Group HSE matters, with Maurice White being responsible for the HSE matters of the KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group of companies.
During 2004 the Board, and each of the audit and remuneration committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs Ross Richardson, a director of KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group Limited, Suggestions of Good Practice as guidance, the individual directors who reports to Maurice White, is responsible for human resource issues.
and or committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed by the company secretary who The management team, comprising of the executive directors together prepared reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The areas with senior managers, meet formally on a quarterly basis to review covered included the role of the executive and non-executive directors current business matters and identify any areas of concern.
and the Board Board committees, leadership and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership The Executive Chairman meets once annually with the non-executive and culture and corporate governance.
The results were then considered directors without the executive directors being present.
The nonby the Board and each of these committees in meetings as specific items executive directors meet once annually to appraise the Executive of business.
The Board and Board committees are comfortable that they Chairmans performance.
These exercises will be repeated annually.
Dialogue with shareholders The chairman also convened a formal meeting of the non-executive The Company has a well established programme of meetings with directors to assess the performance of the Board in the absence of the substantial investors and brokers, including presentations in respect executive directors.
Amongst other matters when undertaking this of both the interim and annual reports and holding discussions in exercise, the chairman had regard to the principles in the new code respect of future growth and strategy.
The senior non-executive relating to evaluation of the collective and individual performance of director is available to meet with shareholders.
The non-executive directors, in the absence of the chairman, met to assess the chairmans effectiveness.
Board of directors The Board of directors at 11 March 2005 comprises eight directors: four The training needs of both executive and non-executive directors, taking into account their individual roles and responsibilities, are periodically executive directors and four non-executive directors.
Terms of reference for full Board approval are in place, which includes, inter alia, the review reviewed and acted upon as appropriate.
of the Groups health and safety performance, the approval of annual and interim results, significant transactions, major capital expenditures, Audit Committee the yearly business plan and budget, the Groups long term commercial Non-executive members: Robert Duncan Chairman, John Hollis, strategy, establishing financial authority limits and Group treasury policies.
George Watkins, all of whom are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Robert Duncan, who has the necessary financial experience, has The Board has carried out regular reviews of the effectiveness of the chaired the Committee since September 2003.
Groups system of internal controls during 2004, and will ensure that further such reviews are performed on a regular basis.
The Board is The Committees terms of reference are principally concerned with satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been accounting matters, financial reporting and internal controls.
The mitigated to an acceptable level.
The key elements of the internal Committee meets not less than three times a year three meetings control system and the processes used by the Board to review the were held during 2004 which had a 100% attendance to review any effectiveness of the system are as detailed below: significant judgements made in the preparation of the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are submitted to the Board.
It agrees with Risk Management the external auditors the nature and scope of their work and discusses The Risk Management Committee continues to have responsibility with them the results thereof.
The Committee has the power to seek for co-ordinating the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and external advice as and when required.
reporting progress to the Board on managing the Groups key risks, including a specific assessment for the purposes of this annual report.
In addition the Committee meets once a year with the external auditors The Committee, whose members are John Hollis Chairman, Peter without management being present.
It reviews both the independence Milne, Michael Salter and Alec Banyard, regularly reviews and challenges and objectivity of the external auditors and any non-audit services the effectiveness of the risk process, recognising that the process provided.
Any assignment in respect of non-audit services where the is iterative, requiring ongoing monitoring and improvement.
Both level of fees is expected to be in excess of 50,000 has to be approved a top-down and a bottom-up approach is adopted in order to achieve in advance by the Audit Committee.
a broad view of risk from staff at different levels within the organisation.
The Committee has put in place and periodically reviews procedures Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs at all levels to comply with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, known within the Group and is an inherent part of the management culture.
At the operational level, line management is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of significant risks, assessing the design Particularly in view of the Groups continued expansion, the Board and and operation of suitable internal controls, and the integration of these the Committee decided during 2003 that a group compliance internal processes into the day to day operations of the Group.
A group compliance officer, who reports to the chairman of the Audit Committee, was appointed during 2004, Each business unit and support function is required to produce a risk whose role includes internal audit functions.
The overall scope of the matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of those internal audit programmes are approved by the Audit Committee, and risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken the results thereof reviewed.
to manage those risks to the desired level.
Remuneration Committee The Risk Committee reviews the risk information received and brings Non-executive members: Geoffrey Philipps Chairman, John Hollis, its own top-down contribution and judgement to bear.
The resultant George Watkins, all of whom are considered to be independent findings are brought to the Board in a summarised form as well as being non-executive directors.
fed back to the organisation through management to ensure a common understanding and the implementation of necessary actions.
The Committees terms of reference are principally concerned with the remuneration, in all its forms, of main Board executive directors The Risk Committee will continue to hold at least two risk reviews each and other senior executives of the Group.
year in order to ensure that changing circumstances are being monitored and necessary actions being implemented.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year four meetings were held during 2004, three of which had a 100% attendance, the fourth Assurances meeting was attended by all members of the committee other than John The directors derive further assurances from the following internal and Hollis and with the assistance of information provided from external external controls: sources and from sources within the Company ensures that the salary, benefits and pension arrangements of the executive directors, together Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full with awards under any executive incentive plan, share option or other year are regularly reported to the Board with significant variances similar schemes are appropriate.
Further information is contained within explained and key risks identified: the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 28 to 31.
Reports from the audit and risk management committees: Client audits: Internal Control External audits: and The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system Internal audits to assess compliance the compliance manager of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk plays a significant role in the risk management process.
The Audit of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the remit, authority, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
resources and scope of work of the compliance function on an annual basis.
The Group adopts internal controls appropriate to its business and culture.
By order of the Board An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and Alec W. J. Banyard managing the significant risks faced by the Group and is in accordance Company Secretary with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
