16 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Directors statement on corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate the director was absent, full documentation for the meeting was issued governance, the process by which the Group is directed and managed, and briengs were provided as appropriate.
risks are identied and controlled and effective accountability assured.
A schedule of matters specically reserved for the Boards decision has The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under been adopted whilst certain other responsibilities have been delegated review with the requirements of the revised Combined Code on to four standing Committees with clearly dened terms of reference Corporate Governance the Code which was issued in 2003.
This which, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed statement describes how the principles and provisions of corporate annually.
Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources so that it governance set out in the Code have been applied within the Group.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available upon request to the Company The Board Secretary and are also available on the Companys website.
The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, seven further nonexecutive directors and two executive directors, details of whom are given The executive directors are supported by a team of senior managers on page 11.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with who are responsible for assisting in the development and achievement of a clear division of responsibility between them which is set out in writing the Groups corporate strategy, business plans, budgets and for reviewing and agreed by the Board.
The team, together with the executive directors, are responsible for agreeing and monitoring policies The size, balance and composition of the Board supports the Boards and other matters not reserved for the Board.
Further details of the senior role, which is to determine the long term direction and strategy of the management team can be found on the Companys website.
Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the achievement of business objectives, ensure that good corporate governance is practised and to ensure To ensure good communication between the Board and each Committee, that the Group meets its other responsibilities to its shareholders, customers the Company Secretary is the appointed Secretary to all standing Board and other stakeholders.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that Committees.
appropriate processes are in place in respect of succession planning for All directors receive appropriate training and induction upon appointment appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
Non-executives enhance their understanding The non-executive directors each appointed for an initial three year of the Group through regular business sector presentations, the receipt term have a wide range of skills and experience which helps to ensure of monthly reports from the Chief Executive and site visits.
The Chairman that independent judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and the executive directors are responsible for ensuring that the Board and performance and also that a proper balance of power is maintained receives accurate and clear information in a timely manner for Board for full and effective control.
The non-executive directors in particular meetings and on other occasions.
the Chairman devote sufficient time and attention as necessary in The Board has established a process to evaluate the performance of the order to perform their duties.
Other professional commitments of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation process non-executive directors are provided in their biographies on page 11. includes self-assessment by the Board together with the assistance of The Board requires that all non-executive directors are independent an external adviser.
Key processes include assessments of the: in character and judgement and the independence of each director is relevant contribution of the Board, each Committee, each director reviewed at least annually.
As Gran Ennerfelt has a material notiable and the overall composition of the Board: interest in the share capital of the Company see the Report of the directors on pages 14 and 15, the Board has concluded that he is not effectiveness of the leadership of the Company Chairman: to be considered as independent of the management of the Company.
effectiveness of relationships and communications with key In accordance with the Code, the Board has reviewed the independence management: and of James Wyness, who has served on the Board in excess of nine years.
The review concluded that James Wyness is independent in character and quality of information provided to the Board to enable it to perform in the exercise of his judgement and for these reasons the Board considers its duties.
In accordance with the Code, James Wyness will Key outputs of the process are used to further improve areas which are stand for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
working well and to address any weaknesses.
The Board has appointed James Wyness as the senior independent director.
In addition to the evaluation process, the Chairman holds regular meetings The senior independent director is available to meet shareholders upon with the other non-executives at which executive directors are not present.
request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels The senior independent director also holds, at least annually, a meeting of of the Chairman or executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which the other non-executives at which the Chairman is not present to appraise such contact is inappropriate.
It is the policy of the Board to hold at least six Board meetings a year, The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action against including a meeting to review and approve long term strategy.
There were its directors and certain other ofcers.
The directors also have access to 10 Board meetings during 2004.
Full attendance of the Board is expected the advice and services of the Company Secretary and if necessary, access at meetings and in 2004 all directors attended except for the following to further independent advice, at the Companys expense, who advises the absences: Nicholas Brookes 1, My Chung 3, Marcus Beresford 2, Board and its Committees in respect of their procedures, directors duties Frederick DAlessio 2, Gran Ennerfelt 5, Richard Moley 1 and James and responsibilities, corporate governance and all compliance matters.
The reasons for the absences were due to either unavoidable appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved changes in the Board meeting calendar at short notice, the director being to the Board.
ill or the director having to be elsewhere for other urgent business.
Where Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 17 Board appointments based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek election the appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the Committee by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
They also to assist this process as appropriate.
require that all directors seek re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration Committee Board Committees Chairman, Marcus Beresford Acquisitions and Divestments Committee The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent nonChairman, Anders Gustafsson executive directors.
During 2004, the Committee held six meetings and The Acquisitions and Divestments Committee comprises the executives there was full attendance by Committee members with the exception of and any two non-executive directors.
The Committee is primarily concerned Marcus Beresford and Frederick DAlessio, each of whom was absent for with the evaluation and approval of any acquisitions and divestments one meeting.
Other directors who are not members may attend at the delegated to it by the Board.
invitation of the Committee Chairman.
No director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The Audit Committee Remuneration Committee has delegated responsibility for setting Chairman, Andrew Given remuneration for all executive directors and the Chairman, whilst The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors.
the Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the nonThe Code requires that the Audit Committee includes a member who has executive directors.
recent, significant and relevant financial experience and the Board believes that Andrew Given provides such experience.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 19 to 26.
During 2004, the Committee held five meetings and there was full attendance by Committee members with the exception of Marcus Relations with shareholders Beresford who was absent for one meeting.
At all meetings the external The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and auditors, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal communication with shareholders.
Communication is facilitated by full Control and the Head of Financial Reporting are in attendance.
Other year and interim reports issued to shareholders.
Further information and directors who are not members may attend at the invitation of the services available to shareholders are described on page 72.
The Committee also meets with the external auditors in private for part of each meeting.
A valuable dialogue has been established with principal institutional investors through a programme of investor relations events throughout The Committee reviews all published accounts and post audit findings the year.
The Company also discusses major remuneration and long term before their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting incentive proposals with principal investors prior to any required shareholder policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates.
In addition to a dialogue with principal shareholders, the Board the Groups internal control and risk management regime including the also commissions external advisers to undertake investor perception effectiveness of the internal audit function and financial reporting.
Any reviews, the results of which are reported to the Board.
All contact with significant findings or identied weaknesses are closely examined so that institutional investors, financial analysts, fund managers, brokers and appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported to the Board.
the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of of price-sensitive information during such dialogue.
external auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of both It is the Companys practice to issue the Notice convening the AGM audit and non-audit work.
The Committee has adopted a policy which at least 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate prohibits certain types of non-audit work that may be performed by the resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
All directors are expected Companys auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and independence to attend the AGM to take any relevant questions.
A report showing the would be at risk.
Other non-audit work which may be provided by the number of proxy votes cast for, against and withheld for each resolution auditor is put to tender where considered appropriate.
Prior to any nonis available for shareholders attending the AGM in respect of resolutions audit work being awarded to the auditors, consideration is also given to which have been voted on by a show of hands.
These results are also costs, quality of service and efficiency.
The Audit Committee also assesses posted on the Companys website.
the overall objectivity of the auditors services so that an independent professional relationship is maintained.
Details of the auditors remuneration Internal control for 2004 appear in note 5 to the Accounts.
Introduction The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Nomination Committee control, which comprises a process for identifying, evaluating and managing Chairman, John Weston the risks faced by the Group and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness in The Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive directors accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
and the Chief Executive and meets at least once a year.
During 2004, The Board confirms that this process was in place throughout the year the Committee held two meetings at which there was full attendance by under review and up to the date of approval of these Accounts.
The primary Committee members with the exception of Nicholas Brookes, Frederick aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which DAlessio, Gran Ennerfelt, Andrew Given, Richard Moley and James Wyness, can, over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Groups each of whom was absent for one meeting.
The Committee is responsible assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk for reviewing the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
18 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Process US corporate governance compliance The Groups Operational Excellence Programme ensures that internal As the Company has a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange control and risk management processes continue to become embedded NYSE, it is subject to certain US legislation.
Following the introduction in the organisation.
Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the US, the NYSE introduced new and risk monitoring rests with senior management at operating group and corporate governance standards.
Companies which do not have their business unit level.
primary listing on the NYSE such as Spirent are generally permitted to follow home country practice ie the UK Listing Rules and the Code in Spirent operates corporate internal control and risk management functions lieu of NYSEs standards.
Generally, NYSEs corporate governance standards which report into the Head of Internal Control.
The functions operate on a do not vary signicantly from those adopted in the UK, however, NYSE global basis and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing rules require any such significant variances to be disclosed.
Following a assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout review of the NYSE corporate governance standards, the following are the Group to operating management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
considered significant variances to home country practice: The work programme of the functions is focused on the areas perceived to be of greatest risk to the Group and is agreed annually in advance by NYSE rules provide that nomination committees should consist the Audit Committee.
Spirents Nomination Committee whose constitution is in accordance with the Code includes Anders The Groups system of internal control and risk management comprises an Gustafsson and Gran Ennerfelt, neither of whom are independent: integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular self-assessment encompassing all operating units and preparation of a remedial action plan, NYSE rules provide that nomination corporate governance committees as appropriate.
This system is coordinated by Spirents corporate internal are responsible for developing and recommending to the Board a set control and risk management functions.
significant risks are also regularly of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
Spirent, reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
however, reserves these responsibilities for the whole Board in accordance with the Code : and In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the overall internal control environment: NYSE rules require audit committees to be directly responsible for the appointment and retention of the Companys external auditor.
Spirents an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, dened Audit Committee, in accordance with the Code, however, is responsible lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and an Ethics Policy which has been approved by the Board, which retention of the auditor.
sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and In accordance with NYSE requirements, the above summary of significant operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures variances in corporate governance practices can be found on the Companys whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: website at www.
com corporategovernance a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and Pensions governance The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the UK and a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Group and post acquisition integration programme.
are administered by Trustees which include employees and independent members.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
Review of effectiveness The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness Reporting of the system of internal control for the period under review, taking account The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of preparing the of material developments since that date using the process set out above.
accounts is set out on page 15.
A report by the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, which includes details of their responsibilities in respect of the Companys compliance with the Code, is set out on page 27.
