Corporate Governance Statement Henry Casley may not be seen as independent because he is a former The Board continues to commit to the executive of Southern Electric plc and is highest standards of corporate governance, a member of a company pension scheme.
and has due regard to the continuing He comes up for re-election at the developments in this field, including recent forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
policy guidelines from the ABI, NAPF The Board considers it to be in the and PIRC.
This statement sets out the companys interest for Henry Casley to key governance principles and practices be re-elected due to his considerable of Scottish and Southern Energy.
The knowledge and experience of the Group and Remuneration report on pages 26 the sector, particularly during the current to 30 details the remuneration policies regulatory price review period, and also to and practices.
provide continuity on the Board during a period when there has been a number of Combined Code Compliance changes in non-Executive Directors.
The new Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 Henry Casley participated in the Board on Corporate Governance the Group complied with the provisions performance evaluation process during the is effective for reporting of the Combined Code of Corporate year, and continues to be an effective and years commencing on or Governance appended to the Listing Rules committed member of the Board.
Details of the Financial Services Authority.
The of the evaluation process are set out on after 1 November 2003.
Board acknowledges its responsibility for page 18.
Henry Casley intends to retire The Board has considered ensuring that an adequate system of from the Board before the 2005 Annual its structure and internal control exists which accords General Meeting, and it is expected that procedures in the light with the requirements of the Turnbull the composition of the Board in terms of of this new Code and Committee guidance.
independent non-Executive Directors expects to report full should then be fully compliant with the The new Combined Code on Corporate new Combined Code.
compliance with the Governance is effective for reporting years new Code next year.
commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
It was agreed on 18 May 2004 that The Board has considered its structure and Kevin Smith is to join the Board on procedures in the light of this new Code and 24 June 2004.
He accordingly comes up expects to report full compliance with the for election at the forthcoming Annual new Code next year.
He has considerable industrial and operational experience, and Board of Directors will bring value to the Board in these areas.
The Board currently consists of a nonThe Board considers him to be independent.
Executive Chairman, five non-Executive Directors and five Executive Directors, The Senior Independent Director is the thus achieving an appropriate balance of Deputy Chairman, Sir Robert Smith.
Biographical details of all the Directors are shown on page 22.
The new Combined Code, however, sets out some factors to consider in determining Board Meetings and Attendance in future years whether a Director is The Board had ten scheduled meetings independent.
According to these factors, during the year and meets more frequently Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Meetings and Attendance Board Committee Committee Committee ten meetings three meetings two meetings five meetings 6 Dr Bruce Farmer 10 122 6 Mr Henry Casley 10 1 1 Mr Ren Mdori 72 Sir Graeme Odgers 10 3 2 6 Mr David Payne 10 2 5 3, 7 Mrs Susan Rice 6 1 2 2 Sir Robert Smith 72 3 5 Mr Ian Grant 5 1 3 Mr Ian Marchant 10 2 Mr Gregor Alexander 10 Mr Colin Hood 9 Mr Alistair Phillips-Davies 10 Mr David Sigworth 10 4 Mr Nick Timpson 31 2 indicates not a member of that committee 1. appointed on 26 June 2003 2. appointed on 26 June 2003 3. appointed on 24 July 2003 4. retired on 26 June 2003 5. retired on 31 October 2003 6. on 24 July 2003 Dr Bruce Farmer and Henry Casley stood down from the Audit Committee, Dr Farmer also stood down from the Remuneration Committee and David Payne was appointed to the Nomination Committee 7. appointed to the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee on 31 October 2003 Scottish and Southern Energy plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors are also able to update their knowledge and skills, for example by as required.
The attendance of Directors regular briefings on business issues, and at Board meetings and meetings of its visits to key offices and sites.
There is an principal committees during the year are agreed procedure for Directors to be able set out in the table on page 17. to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, In summary, there was full attendance at at the Groups expense and all Directors all meetings of the Audit, Nomination and have access to the advice and services of Remuneration Committees, and full the Company Secretary.
There is attendance at all Board meetings apart appropriate Directors and Officers from Ian Grant, Colin Hood, Ren Mdori, insurance cover in place.
Susan Rice and Sir Robert Smith who were each unable to attend one meeting due to Performance Evaluation prior commitments.
A review of the Board and Committee performance was conducted by the The Chairman and non-Executive Directors Chairman during the year, to assess the met during the year without the executive performance of the Board as a whole and management being present.
The nonof the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Executive Directors would consider meeting Committees.
A detailed questionnaire was without the Chairman if there were concerns completed by each Director which covered which the Chairman had failed to resolve or such subjects as the role of the Board, if there were any issues concerning his corporate governance, information and performance.
The Directors are fully briefed monitoring of performance.
Interviews were in advance of all Board meetings on all conducted with each Director and with the matters to be discussed, including regular Company Secretary.
A report setting out a business and financial reports, and they summary of the review was considered by also receive copies of analysts and brokers the Board at its meeting in January 2004. reports on the company.
The conclusion was that there were no Directors receive an significant issues to address, but some appropriate induction Board Procedures improvements were suggested and have course on joining the The Board has reserved to it authority in been made.
This review will continue to Board which includes respect of areas significant to the Groups be carried out on an annual basis.
In particular, the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved A review of the performance of each management, visits to to it for decision, which includes strategic Director was also carried out by the key sites, and a meeting items, appointment of senior executives, Chairman.
In the case of the Chairmans with the company broker approval of annual budget and annual performance review, this was carried out and analysts.
It also accounts, significant contracts and capital by the Senior Independent Director, who covers a review of all expenditure.
This schedule is reviewed was at that time Ian Grant, prior to his risks facing the Group regularly by the Board.
detailed financial and operational including key operational information in order for it to monitor During the year the Board considered and issues such as safety effectively the performance of the key areas kept under review its plans on succession and environmental of the business.
for senior management within the Group.
All Directors are required under the Articles Board Committees of Association to stand for re-election at The Board has six principal committees, and least every three years.
Any Director the membership and terms of reference of appointed by the Board during the year has each have been reviewed by the Board also to be subject to election at the next during the course of the year.
The Company Annual General Meeting.
Secretary acts as Secretary of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination During the year, the Board reviewed Committees.
The terms of reference of the membership of the various committees of Committees are available on the Companys the Board in the light of the appointments website www.
Audit Committee All of the non-Executive Directors have been The Audit Committee currently comprises appointed for fixed terms of three years.
the following non-Executive Directors appointed by the Board: Induction and Training Directors receive an appropriate Ren Mdori Chairman induction course on joining the BoardSir Robert Smith which includes meetings with seniorSusan Rice management, visits to key sites, and a meeting with the company broker and Sir Graeme Odgers was Chairman of the analysts.
It also covers a review of all Audit Committee for the year and retired risks facing the Group including key as a Director and Audit Committee operational issues such as safety and Chairman on 18 May 2004.
joined the Audit Committee on that date.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The changes to the membership of the management, internal control matters, Committee during the year are detailed internal audit reports and any issues arising in the footnotes to the attendance table from its review of Group Accounts.
During on page 17. the year, the Audit Committee met on three occasions.
It also met with the external The Board considers that the membership auditors without management present.
of the Audit Committee as a whole has The policy on fees paid to Audit Committee sufficient recent and relevant financial members is explained in the Remuneration experience to discharge its functions, Report on page 28. and that in particular Ren Mdori and Sir Robert Smith have relevant The Committee recommended to the Board financial experience.
that KPMG Audit Plc be proposed for reappointment, having been satisfied with The Committee reviews the financial reports the scope and results of the audit work, of the Group, considers the results of the their objectivity and their independence.
auditors examination of Group Accounts The Board endorsed the Committees and reviews the programme of work of the recommendation.
It meets regularly with management and with the During the year the Committee reviewed the internal and external auditors to review company arrangements by which staff can, the effectiveness of the Groups systems in confidence, raise concerns about any of internal control and business risk possible improprieties in financial and other management on behalf of the Board.
The matters, and formalised it in a Board policy.
Committee receives reports on a large number of different activities within the Remuneration Committee Group, including areas where there could be The Remuneration Committee is responsible significant risk such as energy trading and for formulation of remuneration policy and treasury.
Follow-up reports are also approving all aspects of Executive Directors provided to the Committee to ensure remuneration and the Company Secretarys A review of the Board and appropriate actions are completed.
The remuneration, including bonuses and the Committee performance Committee also reviews the terms of granting of incentives under the companys was conducted by the appointment of the external auditors and schemes.
It also reviews and approves the Chairman during the year, partner rotation.
The Remuneration to assess the performance Committee comprises the following nonThe Committee has established a policy Executive Directors appointed by the Board: of the Board as a whole on the appointment of the auditors for and of the Audit, non-audit services and keeps this issue David Payne Chairman Remuneration and under continual review.
The policy detailsSir Robert Smith Nomination Committees.
non-audit work from which the auditors areSusan Rice This review will continue excluded, and other non-audit work which to be carried out on an may be awarded to them in a competitive The Boards Remuneration Report is set out tender process.
If the value of the work is on pages 26 to 30. annual basis.
below a certain level and it is considered in the best interests of the company, then a Nomination Committee competitive tender may not be required.
The Nomination Committee comprises the The Committee is confident that the following Directors the majority of whom objectivity and independence of the auditors are non-Executive Directors, appointed by are not affected by this further work.
the Board: The Committee is satisfied that such work is best handled by the auditors because ofDr Bruce Farmer Chairman their knowledge of the Group.
Ian Marchant David Payne There remains significant concern in the UKSusan Rice about the extent of non-audit work carried out for audit clients by leading accountancy During the year the membership of the firms.
The annual FT-SE100 Audit Fees Committee was reviewed to take account of survey was featured in Financial Director the new Combined Code.
Since this review journal in January 2004.
It showed that the and up to the retirement of Sir Graeme Group had the lowest other fees to auditor Odgers the majority of the members of the of any FT-SE100 company.
Another independent Director will be The Committee also receives regular appointed before the next Committee reports on developments in financial meeting.
Other changes to the Committee reporting practices so as to keep abreast membership are detailed in the footnotes of current thinking on accounting policies to the attendance table on page 17. and standards.
The Committee meets when necessary to The Chairman of the Committee reports to consider the composition and balance of the Board following each meeting of the the Board and recommends suitable Committee on the main areas and subjects candidates for appointment as Directors the Committee has reviewed such as risk and re-appointments to the Board.
During Scottish and Southern Energy plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors have regard to what controls, in their judgement, are appropriate to the year the Nomination Committee met on the Groups businesses, to the materiality two occasions.
of the risks inherent in these businesses, and to the relative costs and benefits of External search consultants were retained implementing specific controls.
The Board to identify and propose the appointment of maintains an ongoing process of identifying, the new non-Executive Directors to the evaluating and managing the key Board.
The Committee identified the skills commercial, financial, social, ethical, and experience required, and the environmental and general risks to the appointment of the new Directors involved Groups business.
This process is regularly consideration of and interviewing a number reviewed by the Board and the Audit of candidates by Committee members Committee and has been in place throughout followed by a recommendation from the the year and up to the date of approval of Committee to the Board.
Risk Committee Control is maintained through an The Risk Committee comprises Alistair organisation structure with clearly defined Phillips-Davies Chairman, Ian Marchant, responsibilities, authority levels and lines Gregor Alexander, David Sigsworth and of reporting: the appointment of suitably senior managers from Energy Trading and qualified staff in specialised business Finance.
It meets monthly, on average, and areas: and continuing investment in high its purpose is to review and manage risks quality information systems.
These and exposures in Energy Trading, interest methods of control are subject to periodic rates and currency markets.
review as to their implementation and continued suitability.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises all In addition to the financial risks summarised the Executive Directors and other senior on page 8, there is also the risk of Group Executives.
The Chairman is mechanical or process failure in the Groups Ian Marchant, apart from meetings on operations.
Any material failure in the operational performance matters, when it Groups licensed operations in electricity is chaired by Colin Hood.
It meets monthly, generation, transmission, distribution and on average, and is responsible for all key supply and in the supply and storage of gas management issues arising from the would be particularly significant.
Operating business of the Group, and to manage the risk is addressed through the Groups focus implementation of the Group strategy as on seeking operational excellence and on agreed by the Board.
maintaining the highest standards of safety and quality.
The Board maintains an Safety and Environmental Advisory ongoing process of Committee There are established procedures in place identifying, evaluating The Safety and Environmental Advisory for regular budgeting and reporting of and managing the key Committee comprises Colin Hood financial information.
The Groups commercial, financial, Chairman, Ian Marchant, David performance is reviewed by the Board and Sigsworth, certain senior Group the Executive Directors.
Reports include social, ethical, Executives, and one non-Executive variance analysis and projected forecasts of environmental and Director, Henry Casley.
The Committee the year compared to approved budgets and general risks to the meets quarterly and is responsible for non-financial performance indicators.
This ensuring that safety and environmental process is regularly policies have been implemented, setting There are Group policies in place covering targets and monitoring performance, and a wide range of issues and risks such as reviewed by the Board promoting awareness of these issues financial authorisations, IT procedures, and the Audit Committee.
health and safety and environmental risks.
The business risks associated with the Internal Control Groups operations are regularly assessed The Directors have overall responsibility for by the Board and the Audit Committee.
the Groups systems of internal control and The Risk Committee comprising four risk management and for monitoring their Executive Directors, together with senior effectiveness.
The purpose of these systems managers, meets regularly to review risks is to manage, rather than eliminate, the and authority levels in key areas of the risk of failure to achieve business Groups activities.
objectives, and provide reasonable assurance as to the quality of management The effectiveness of the Groups systems of information and to maintain proper control internal control is monitored by the Groups over the income, expenditure, assets and internal audit department.
Its reports, liabilities of the Group.
which include where appropriate relevant action plans, are distributed to senior No system of control can, however, provide managers, Directors and external auditors, absolute assurance against material and the findings are reviewed regularly by misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the the Audit Committee.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Communication with Shareholders and Major Business Stakeholders The Directors acknowledge the importance of communication with shareholders.
During the year, the company sought the views of The company offers its major shareholders on the level of the use of electronic contact which takes place with the communications to company.
No major issues arose from this exercise shareholder process and the major shareholders control rights, and confirmed that in their view there was an appropriate programme of dialogue and encourages its communication.
There is a continuing shareholders to receive programme of meetings between Executive communications from Directors and major shareholders on a wide the company such as range of issues.
The non-Executive the Annual Report, Directors receive feedback on these electronically, thus saving meetings on a regular basis to allow them to form a view of the priorities and the environmental costs concerns of institutional investors.
of producing accounts on paper.
In return the All Directors were present at the Annual company undertakes to General Meeting in 2003 and all intend to plant a native species tree be present at the Annual General Meeting in 2004 to answer shareholders questions.
in a designated woodland, also helping to reduce The Chairman introduces the presentation global warming gases.
of the companys interim and preliminary results to analysts and investors and also meets with major shareholders from time to time.
The Senior Independent Director has met major shareholders since his appointment during the year.
On two occasions during the year the Board met for a general discussion with key external business stakeholders, in Edinburgh and London.
The company offers the use of electronic communications to exercise shareholder control rights, and encourages its shareholders to receive communications from the company such as the Annual Report, electronically, thus saving the environmental costs of producing accounts on paper.
In return the company undertakes to plant a native species tree in a designated woodland, also helping to reduce global warming gases.
Over 18,000 shareholders have so far elected to participate in this programme, and the company will continue to encourage others to do so.
co. uk contains financial and other information about the Group, shareholder presentations, general business news, and full details of the shareholder programmes.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
