Corporate Governance Combined code The Board, which met seven Board committees The Nomination Committee, which The Board is committed to high times in the year, has a schedule The Board has established three is chaired by Peter Read, comprises standards of corporate governance.
of matters reserved for its approval, committees.
The terms of reference all the Non-Executive Directors and Following the publication of the including determination of strategy, of each committee are currently the Chief Executive.
This committee new Combined Code on Corporate the financial statements, annual being reviewed against the makes recommendations for Governance the New Code and budget, treasury policy, major criteria of the New Code and appointments to the Board.
guidance on audit committees the acquisitions and disposals, capital will be updated as appropriate.
Smith Guidance, the Board has expenditure and monitoring They will shortly be available on In addition, the Executive Team, reviewed its corporate governance of operational and financial the Companys website: consisting of the Executive Directors procedures and is making changes performance.
com and certain senior executives are as appropriate.
The New Code established code of practice for responsible for the day-to-day applies to accounting periods the calling of meetings and preThe Audit Committee is chaired by management of the Company.
beginning on or after 1 November circulation of board papers.
Richard Adam and comprises all the 1 2003.
This report has been prepared Non-Executive Directors with the The number of scheduled Board on the basis of the previous The Non-Executive Directors, exception of the Chairman who meetings attended by each Director Combined Code on Corporate including the Chairman, meet resigned on 18 March 2004 but during the year was as follows: Governance the Code, although independently of management who has a standing invitation to Attendance some additional disclosures have on an occasional basis.
Throughout the year, reports its findings to the Board.
I. Martin 7 the Company complied with the All Directors joining the Board are Following each meeting, the NonG.
Watts 7 Code with the exception of certain required to submit themselves for Executive Directors met with M. Pilkington provisions relating to Directors election at the AGM following their external auditors without appointed 12 February 2004 2 service contracts.
This report, appointment and at least every management present.
The Audit R. Adam together with the Remuneration three years thereafter.
NonCommittee is authorised to: appointed 13 November 2003 3 Report set out on pages 25 to 30, Executive Directors are appointed B. Beetz 5 explains how the Company has for a specified term.
Details of the Monitor the integrity of the T. Howden 7 applied the Code.
current Directors appear on pages financial statements: P. Read 7 20 to 21.
Details of changes to the Review the Companys internal The Board Board during the period are detailed financial controls and internal B. Buchan The Board consists of a Nonon page 24. control and risk management resigned 23 March 2004 7 Executive Chairman, four other systems: S. Eastwood Non-Executive Directors and three A procedure is in place for Directors Review the effectiveness of the resigned 12 March 2004 6 Executive Directors.
There is a clear to receive independent professional Companys internal audit E. Anstee division of responsibility between advice in respect of their duties.
function: and resigned 11 September 2003 1 the Chairman, who leads the Board They also have access to the Oversee the relationship with the A. Strasser and the Chief Executive, who is advice and services of the Company external auditor.
resigned 16 May 2003 1 responsible for running the Secretary.
All of the Non-Executive arranges for appropriate ongoing After making appropriate enquiries, Directors are considered training and an induction the Audit Committee is satisfied independent of management and programme tailored to meet the as to the objectivity and free from any relationship which needs of the individual.
The independence of the external could materially interfere with their Directors receive regular updates auditors in particular, that independent judgement.
The on changes and developments to additional non-audit related independence of Non-Executive the business, legislative and services does not threaten this Directors has been considered regulatory matters.
against the criteria of the New Code and it was determined that The mix of skills and experience The Remuneration Committee each was independent, with the ensures that an effective Board comprises all the Non-Executive exception of Tim Howden, the leads the Company and that no one Directors and is chaired by Tim Senior Non-Executive Director, who Director or group dominates the Howden.
Peter Read will become has served for more than nine years.
Committee Chairman after Mr Mr Howden was appointed a NonHowden steps down at the Executive Director of Scholl PLC in forthcoming AGM.
The role of this 1994 and subsequently became a committee and details of how it Non-Executive Director of the applied the principles of the Code Company, following the merger are set out in the Remuneration of Seton and Scholl in 1998.
Howden will retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Subject to his re-election by shareholders, Peter Read will become the Senior Independent Director.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 22 Corporate Governance Internal control An effective Internal Audit Relations with shareholders Going concern The Board is responsible for the function providing independent The Company has a programme After making enquiries, the Board Companys system of internal scrutiny of internal control of communication with its has a reasonable expectation that control and for reviewing its systems and risk management shareholders, including regular the Company and the Group have effectiveness.
The system of internal procedures: meetings with, and presentations adequate resources to continue in control is designed to manage Annual compliance statements to, institutional shareholders, fund operational existence for the rather than eliminate the risk of from all statutory business units managers and analysts.
For this reason, failure to achieve business within the Company, stating Company website contains share we continue to adopt the going objectives and can provide only compliance with Company price information, copies of annual concern basis in preparing the reasonable, and not absolute policies, identification of reports, press releases and analyst financial statements.
assurance against material business risks and internal presentations.
Key elements control confirmation: and 1 Eric Anstee, the previous of the Companys system of internal Assessing the year end reporting The AGM provides an important chairman of the Audit control include: process throughout the opportunity for shareholders to Committee, resigned as a NonCompany including visits to raise questions with the Board.
Executive Director on 11 Regular Board meetings with selected locations by the Internal Those shareholders whose shares September 2003.
Richard Adam a formal schedule of matters Audit function to assist in year are held within Crest, the electronic became chairman upon his reserved to the Board for end close and issue resolution.
share settlement system will have appointment as a Non-Executive decision: the opportunity to vote Director on 13 November 2003.
The Companys strategic The Board reviews the effectiveness electronically for this years AGM.
Alain Strasser was a member of direction is regularly reviewed of the system of internal control at Instructions are given in the AGM the Audit, Remuneration and by the Board: least annually, and is confident that notice of meeting.
Nomination committees until his Clearly defined organisational it complies fully with the Internal resignation as a Non-Executive structures and appropriate Control: Guidance for Directors on Director on 16 May 2003. delegated authorities for the the Combined Code the Turnbull Companys businesses: Report.
The effectiveness of this Ensuring Company policies and process has been reviewed by the procedures are in place for all Audit Committee.
Key elements of areas considered at risk: the review include: Regular monitoring of performance to assess progress Discussions with management towards objectives: on risk areas identified by Procedures for control over management and or the audit capital expenditure and process: investments: The review of internal and Centralised treasury operations external audit plans: and operating within defined limits: The review of significant issues Businesses are responsible for arising from the internal and meeting defined reporting external audits.
timetables and compliance with Group accounting manuals which set out accounting policies, controls and definitions: SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 23 Corporate Governance
