Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Board to lead and control the Group.
The non-executive directors bring an The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders and others for the independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
Russell Walls is the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate senior independent non-executive director.
governance practices within the Group.
In accordance with the Listing The executive and non-executive directors have a complementary range of Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, this statement describes financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no one how the principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
Combined Code have been applied.
All directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the In July 2003, a Revised Combined Code was issued for financial years Group, have access to confidential advice from the company secretary and commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The Group currently complies may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups with most of the recommendations contained in the Revised Code and expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their will keep under review its current corporate governance practices in light duties as directors.
All directors submit themselves for election by of the recommendations contained within it for its financial year ending shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment 30 April 2005.
The Directors have, however, made the following initial and all directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders every observations in regards to potential non-compliance with the provisions three years.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and contained in the Revised Code: subsequently such training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep.
The Audit Committee should include at least three members, who abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The number of full should all be independent non-executive directors.
The Stagecoach Board meetings during the year was seven.
The full Board meets once a Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom year at an operational location and regular verbal communication is are considered by the Board to be independent.
maintained by the Chairman between meetings to ensure all directors are.
Half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent well informed on strategic and operational issues.
The Board believes that the Group satisfies this The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with recommendation because it considers Ewan Brown to be an principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment independent non-executive director.
policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and.
The Nomination Committee should comprise a majority of independent risk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there non-executive directors.
The Board believes that the Group satisfies this are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or recommendation.
All directors have full and timely access to information with Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
One of the non-executive Directors, Ann Gloag, is not an independent director.
The Board has determined nevertheless that it complies with the The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under above provisions as it considers Ewan Brown to be independent, review and changes in responsibilities for example in the composition of notwithstanding the existence of circumstances which may appear relevant Board committees during the year are made where necessary to improve to that determination, due to the reasons stated below.
To provide a more manageable process and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to The Board committees.
The Stagecoach Board currently comprises the Chairman who is a The operational management of the Group is delegated by the Board to non-executive director, the Group Chief Executive, two other executive the Group Chief Executive and executive directors.
The executive directors directors and five other non-executive directors.
Five of the six maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
videoconferences with non-board senior management.
There are four In the case of Ewan Brown, the Board in its determination has taken into principal operating divisions UK Bus, North America, Overseas Bus and account the less than 1% shareholding in the company held by Noble Rail which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business Grossart Investments Limited, Mr. Browns outstanding service on the units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible Board since he was first elected in 1988, and his willingness to stand for for the day to day performance of the business unit.
annual re-election by shareholders from 2004.
The Board has also noted that Mr. Brown has retired as an executive director of Noble Grossart.
The UK Bus division is headed by a managing director, who reports to the Brown is not dependent on the company for his primary source of income Group Chief Executive and is supported by a small team of senior and does not participate in any of the Companys bonus, option or management and other specialists.
The division is divided into a number pension schemes.
of principal operating units, each headed by a regional managing director who reports to the managing director of UK Bus.
The managing director The offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive have been separately of UK Bus and the other UK Bus directors meet regularly.
Following a series of disposals during the year ended 30 April 2004, North The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are America now comprises three regions North East, North Central and properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Canada.
Each region is headed by a chief operating officer who reports to Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the the Group Chief Executive.
same as the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards strategic and policy decisions into actions and to infuse the The Overseas Bus division is headed by a chairman, who reports to the whole enterprise.
The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility Group Chief Executive and until June 2003, comprised two principal for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed strategy and business units, each of which was headed by a managing director policies of the Board.
responsible for the performance of the business unit.
Following the The directors biographies appear on page 17 of this Annual Report and disposal of Citybus in June 2003, the Overseas Bus division consists only illustrate the directors range of experience, which ensures an effective of the New Zealand operations.
page 20 Stagecoach Group plc A Rail board, comprising one Group executive director and other senior shareholders, the Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the management, oversees the performance and development of the Groups relationship between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: rail business.
At South West Trains, the aforementioned Group executive.
the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance director is the chairman and this role is separate from the managing approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 cumulative which are director who is responsible for the performance of the business unit.
They payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: are supported on the South West Trains board by a member of Group management and three non-executive directors.
the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: headed by a chief executive and board meetings are attended by one.
the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which Stagecoach executive director and one other Stagecoach representative.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit Stagecoach is involved in all key decisions at Virgin Rail Group.
firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and Until its disposal in January 2004, Road King board meetings were also.
discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
attended by at least one Group executive director, and the chairman of Overseas Bus.
Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: The Group holds periodic meetings with its principal shareholders and.
Audit related services These are services that the auditors must welcomes all shareholders to its AGM and EGMs.
Formal notice of the undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as 2004 AGM is enclosed within this annual report.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would Evaluation of effectiveness of the Board generally provide all such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its Committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board.
Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each and each Committee of which he or she is a member.
In the case of the specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills Remuneration Committee, independent consultants have contributed to and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of the assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
advisors for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit The assessment of effectiveness included: Committee..
Consideration of the effectiveness of the formal Board and Committee.
General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select meetings.
an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required.
The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management and the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors of the Group.
for general consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to.
The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to provide general consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the Board and its Committees.
the auditors are satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead.
The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including to a threat to the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters.
The composition of the Board and its Committees.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
concluded that overall the Board and the Committees continue to operate The audit fees of 0.7 million for  LLP and nonin an effective and constructive manner.
audit related fees of 0.2m were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level Audit Committee of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Committee believes the level of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional are considered by the Board to be independent.
At the present time, its advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
members are Russell Walls Chairman, Janet Morgan, Ewan Brown and Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where the Group Iain Duffin.
Of the members of the Audit Committee, the Chairman is a recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where potential former Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company and a second member is conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
currently the chairman of an audit committee of another FTSE 100 company.
The Committee therefore has significant financial expertise and is appropriately qualified to undertake its duties in an effective manner.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee during the year comprised three The Audit Committee met four times during the year and has met a further time in June 2004.
It receives reports from all of the Groups major independent non-executive directors, Iain Duffin Chairman, Russell Walls and Janet Morgan.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during business functions including the risk assurance function internal audit, which is now outsourced and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports the year.
It is responsible for reviewing the scale and structure of the remuneration of the executive directors and the terms of their service from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal control contracts.
It is also responsible for approving grants of and changes to the companys performance-related incentive schemes and executive systems in place throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the internal and external share option schemes.
Exercise of options, which is always subject to the rules of the schemes, is approved by a Committee of the main Board.
Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the Stagecoach Group plc page 21 Corporate governance Nomination Committee Relations with shareholders The Nomination Committee currently comprises two independent nonThe Board considers communications with shareholders, whether large or executive directors, Robert Speirs and Ewan Brown who acts as chairman small, external or employee, to be extremely important.
The Group holds and one executive director, Brian Souter.
The Committee may also include, periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, by invitation on an ad hoc basis, the other non-executive directors, as other fund managers and representatives of the financial press.
The purpose of the Committee is to propose to the Board any The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of new director appointments.
Final appointments are the responsibility of the full year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors the whole Board.
The Committee did not meet during the year as there in the UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after were no new or proposed appointments to the Board.
However, they did presentations to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being meet in June 2004 to consider the re-election of directors by rotation.
taken are being effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the year written responses are given to letters or e-mail received from shareholders and all shareholders receive interim and annual Health, Safety and Environmental Committee reports or the summary annual report.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by a nonexecutive director Janet Morgan, and also comprises one other nonEach shareholder is given the opportunity to elect which document they executive director, Iain Duffin who joined the Committee in May 2004 and require and this allows our reporting to be more focused towards the one executive director, Graham Eccles.
It was established to discuss health, needs of individual shareholders.
Information is also available on the safety and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly Company website www.
Private and institutional to the Board on these matters.
It has access to internal safety executives shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the AGM and any and also external consultants.
The Committee met twice during the year EGMs.
The Group aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit, and again in June 2004.
Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental Committees are available at the AGM to answer questions.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and Individual director attendance at meetings other directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the AGM on all the Groups principal business activities.
At each AGM, The following is a table of attendance at meetings by director: the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
Health, Safety and ATTENDANCE Board Audit Remuneration Environmental Accountability and audit AT MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee The Board endeavours, in all its communications with shareholders, to No.
of meetings 7 4 5 2 present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Robert Speirs 6 n a n a n a The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part Brian Souter 7 n a n a n a of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in Martin Griffiths 7 n a n a n a some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and manage acceptable levels of risk.
The directors acknowledge Graham Eccles 7 n a n a 2 their responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of Ewan Brown 7 4 n a n a internal control.
Although the system can provide only reasonable and not Iain Duffin 7 4 5 n a absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that any risks Ann Gloag 7 n a n a n a or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
Janet Morgan 7 2 4 2 The Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and Russell Walls 6 3 4 n a certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its Directors remuneration potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board for whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully ensuring that the directors remuneration is appropriate to attract, controlled or mitigated by the Group.
motivate and retain executive directors of the quality needed to run the Groups business successfully.
The Committee believes that remuneration The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the packages should contain significant performance-related elements.
businesses during the year ended 30 April 2004.
The Board has carried Performance targets are established to align incentives with the interests out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control of shareholders, using an appropriate balance of longand short-term environment and such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the targets.
These include not only traditional financial indicators but also work of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that the processes personal targets, successful investment, innovation, staff development, are in place to ensure that risks are mitigated to an acceptable level.
customer satisfaction, achievement of regulatory requirements, including The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal health and safety and environmental targets.
The constitution and control and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains operation of the Remuneration Committee complies with the principles ultimate responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important and provisions of the Combined Code and this is detailed in the that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the remuneration report laid out on pages 24 to 27. page 22 Stagecoach Group plc.
control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities control framework within that unit.
The Audit Committee meets with together with regular contact between Stagecoach management and representatives of operating units because this is one way for an the management of the relevant entities.
independent and objective appraisal of risk management to be obtained.. a performance management appraisal system covers over 100 of the Self-assessment of risk conducted by the directors and senior management Groups senior management and is based on agreed financial and other is ongoing and has been considered at several levels with each division performance objectives, many of which incorporate identifying and maintaining a separate risk profile.
Risks are evaluated within broad managing risk.
categories: external, reputation, strategic and competitive, legal and.
significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances regulatory, business change, people, financial performance and operational are reviewed on a daily basis, cash flows are compared to budget on a performance, and social, ethical and environmental risks.
four-weekly basis and any material variances between earnings and The Group Risk Assurance function, which is now outsourced and expected cash flows are investigated.
managed by Deloitte, is utilised in monitoring risk management processes.
regular Board reporting on specific matters including updated key risks, to determine whether internal controls operational, compliance and taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, foreign exchange, financial are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and improving where possible the Groups full risk management process in.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, the context of the Groups overall goals.
including due diligence requirements where material businesses are Group Risk Assurance plans and reports are reviewed by the Audit being acquired or divested.
Committee together with external audit plans and any business.
each operating unit maintains controls and procedures appropriate to improvement opportunities that are recommended by the external auditors.
It is a key requirement of the procedures that a written Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
certificate is provided annually by the managing director and financial The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin manager of each business confirming that they have reviewed the Rail Group at present, but the Group maintains an overview of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
As might business risk management through representation on the board and audit be expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly identified by this procedure, all of which have been, or are being, with representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture addressed.
None of the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, follows appropriate risk management procedures.
contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part The Groups Audit Committee reviews the financial statements of Virgin of the maintenance and improvement of our risk management Rail Group together with the minutes, external audit presentations, procedures.
management presentations and internal audit presentations from the audit committee meetings.. a commitment to best practice in external reporting.. a competition compliance programme which has been approved by the Internal control Board and which is subject to regular monitoring.
The wider process described above, together with the key procedures noted below, enables the directors and senior group managers to confirm Compliance with the Combined Code that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key procedures, which the directors The Group has complied with the provisions of the applicable edition of have established, are as follows: the Combined Code throughout the financial year.. an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of out-turn, Pension schemes identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel consisting of executive directors and senior group managers by The assets of the Groups pension schemes are totally separate from the each business units management team, before being approved by the assets of the Group and are invested with independent fund managers.
Board prior to the commencement of the financial year.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom five are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional basis.. reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing profit and The other trustees include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
The loss, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators and company secretary, who is an elected member of the NAPFs investment operating ratios.
All results are monitored throughout the year by the council, and who in 1998 was also re-elected for a six-year term to the Group executives.
16-member board of the industry-wide Railways Pension Scheme, acts as.
a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and chairman of the trustees of the principal UK scheme.
The auditors and business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
actuaries of the principal UK pension schemes are both independent of the Group.
Similar arrangements are in place for the South West Trains, Island.
third party reviews commissioned by the Group of areas where Line, Sheffield Supertram and two Virgin Rail Group sections of the significant inherent risks have been identified, such as treasury Railways Pension Scheme.
 LLP does not conduct management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition the external audit of any significant pension schemes in which the Group policy.
participates.. a decentralised organisation structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
