Corporate Governance This is the first compliance statement to be produced in relation to the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council and applies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Statement of Compliance The company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Application of the Code The main and supporting principles of Section 1 of the Code were applied as follows: The Board Operation of the Board The activities of the company are controlled by the Board which currently comprises two executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr A E Richmond-Watson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and Mr A Walker who has responsibility for the running of the companys business as Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of commerce.
The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which includes setting long term objectives for the group and the strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial commitments, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation.
The Board meets quarterly to review current and projected performance and to determine strategic issues.
The directors receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed quarterly review of performance prepared by the Chief Executive.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees which are discussed below.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility for the development and preparation of the business plan for the group and the annual group budget for recommendation to the Board.
As the senior executive director, the Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of day to day operational control of the group and execution of the group strategy.
The Chief Executive has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose other members are the divisional chief executives, the Finance Director and the Company Secretary to assist him in the performance of his duties and which meets once a month.
The Chairman receives the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors receive a monthly trading summary and commentary.
Board membership and balance The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director are identified on page 24.
The chairmen and members of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees are identified below.
Mr P S Wood replaced Dr M J Peagram as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 June 2004.
The Board met on four occasions in 2004 and in addition all Board members attended an off site two day strategy review forum together with the groups senior managers.
All Board and Committee meetings were fully attended during 2004 except for the Board meeting held in May when Mr Montezemolo was unable to attend.
The Board considers the following non-executive directors to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code: Mr R H Hunting, Mr G Montezemolo, Dr M J Peagram, Mr P J Welch and Mr P S Wood.
Notwithstanding Dr M J Peagrams previous executive positions with Holliday Chemical Holdings PLC which the group acquired in 1998 and resultant residual share options and his shareholding in the company he is, after careful consideration and assessment of his performance, regarded as entirely independent in character and judgement.
27 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance continued Performance evaluation Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and its directors were carried out in 2004 by the following internal processes: an assessment of the performance of individual non-executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions, using performance evaluation questions as the centre piece for those discussions.
Every non-executive director is assessed in this way once a year: the performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually at a meeting of the non-executive directors chaired by the Chairman in September: a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman chaired by the senior independent director is held annually in December to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors: the Board and its Committees carry out an annual self assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the chairman of each committee respectively.
The results of assessment questionnaires completed by those chairmen are reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board and are shared with and discussed by the Board as a whole at its meeting in September each year.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three year terms.
Those non-executive directors who have served longer than nine years on the Board are subject to annual re-election by shareholders with other directors subject to re-election at least every three years.
Shareholder communications Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and meetings take place following the announcement of interim and full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an understanding of the views of the groups major shareholders.
These principles require the Chairman to be present with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director at sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings so that he fully understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Chairman reports on shareholder relations at each Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating to corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman with the assistance of the chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Written reports on all meetings between non executive directors and institutional shareholders and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at the first opportunity following such meetings as is all correspondence with them.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, and in particular private investors, at the companys Annual General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The company makes use of its website www.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year results, company announcements, share price and corporate governance and other investor information.
28 Yule Catto & Co plc Board Committees The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees each with their own terms of reference which set out their respective roles and the authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary and can also be downloaded from the companys website.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Mr P J Welch Chairman, Mr R H Hunting and Mr P S Wood and has established a detailed remit regarding the application of financial reporting and internal control principles.
The Finance Director and senior members of his department attend meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the groups interim and final statements prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee meets periodically with the companys auditors to review the adequacy of the groups financial management, the internal controls and information systems.
The Committees remit includes the review of the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors including the extent of non-audit services and fees payable to the auditors which is carried out and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis.
With regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity of the auditors, the Audit Committees policy is to avoid the auditors providing services in areas which may create or be perceived to create a conflict of interest.
Accordingly, other than in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical or assignments are of a minor nature, the auditors are not invited to tender or propose for services of the following nature: corporate finance, legal, information technology and systems, recruitment or remuneration, accounting, internal audit or control, acquisition due diligence, valuations or appraisals, actuarial or general business consulting.
In addition the auditors have been requested not to provide services to executive directors or senior executives.
Non-executive directors are required to disclose any relationship they have with the auditors.
The Committee considered whether there is a need for an internal audit function during the year and recommended to the Board that such a function was not required.
The Board accepted this recommendation and considers that there are in place appropriate procedures for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the groups governance, risk management and control processes such that an internal audit function is not required at this time.
The current auditors were appointed in 2002 and details of audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2004 is set out in note 3.
Nonaudit fees principally relate to taxation advice.
The Board accepts the Committees recommendation that the current auditors be proposed for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee met formally three times during 2004 and the Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue with the auditors during the course of the year.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Mr R H Hunting Chairman, Mr G Montezemolo and Mr P J Welch.
The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and the making of recommendations with regard to any changes: leading the process for Board appointments and nominating candidates for non-executive positions: and considering succession planning.
The Nominations Committee held three formal meetings during 2004.
Remuneration Committee All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set out on pages 32 to 37.
29 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance continued Accountability An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements and a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 38 and 39 respectively.
The report by the directors that the business is a going concern and a report on the approach to internal control are set out below.
The directors endeavour to make the annual report and financial statements as informative and understandable as possible.
Internal control The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal control are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the group is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be fully eliminated.
The internal control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or against material misstatement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks faced by the group has been in place since 2000.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes and information.
The process has been operated throughout 2004 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and a bottom up risk profile is created by evaluating the information at business, divisional and group level.
Individual directors within Yule Cattos businesses identify and assess key risks associated within their area of responsibility based on formal management information and interaction with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other parties.
The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and agreed at a Board meeting of the subsidiary.
A business risk report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy and takes account of key internal and external factors.
Risks are prioritised using a risk matrix.
These business risk reports then form the basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and discussed by the Yule Catto Audit Committee.
The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed at a board meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out of which a revised report is submitted which identifies changes in the risk environment.
This process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board of Directors in March 2004.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational nature and the most significant of those which faced the group in 2004 are reviewed in the Chairmans statement and the divisional reports.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the groups business, always of the utmost concern and the corporate social responsibility report on pages 18 to 23 reviews the groups performance in this connection in 2004.
30 Yule Catto & Co plc The processes which are used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the internal control systems, either directly or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee include the following: A review of the external audit work plan: Consideration of reports from management and external parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: Quarterly review of safety, health and environmental performance: Discussion with management of the actions taken on any possible problem areas for the business identified by board members or in the audit report: and Consideration of a consolidated risk management report setting out the main conclusions from the internal control process.
In addition, the Board: Receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: Considers the role of the group insurance programme: Receives regular written and oral reports from management on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters: and In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code the Board reviews the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control at least annually.
Social, environmental and ethical matters In October 2001 the Association of British Insurers ABI published guidelines on socially responsible investment which take the form of disclosure principles that institutional investors would expect to see in the annual report of listed companies.
These guidelines require statements on the extent to which social, ethical and environmental matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, assessed, managed and monitored, particularly in relation to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of the company.
Environmental matters The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with health and safety protection is central to the companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the annual report for a number of years.
The SHE statement on pages 18 to 23 incorporates the ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the company has adopted regarding sustainable development.
Social and ethical matters The Board does not regard social and ethical matters as a distinct subject for special review.
The companys system of internal control does, however, by virtue of its approach to risk identification, cover areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which the groups businesses operate and is supportive of local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated with social and ethical issues and has a group wide code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities.
The purpose of this code is to ensure that the groups employees have a clear understanding of the principles that are important in these areas when conducting the groups business.
