2 1 3 4 1Tony Cowling 2 Mike Kirkham 3 David Lowden 4 Andy Boland 5 5 Rob Rowley 6 Sharon Studer 7 Rmy Sautter 8 Alice Perkins 6 8 7 65 the sixth sense of business Directors report The directors of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc submit their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities of the group, review of the year and post balance sheet events A description of the principal activities of the group, together with reviews of the trading results and developments for the year and future developments are contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement and the Finance Directors review on pages 20 to 27 as well as the front section of the report.
Post balance sheet events are described in note 28 to the financial statements.
Share capital Details of movements in the companys issued share capital during 2004 are shown in note 21 to the financial statements.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend for 2004 of 2.4p per share, payable on 6 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 May 2005.
The total dividend for the year, including the interim dividend of 1.1p per share paid in 2004, amounts to 3.5p per share 2003 3.0p.
Directors The directors of the company who held office during the year are as shown on page 69.
Stephan Buck and Neil Cross will retire from the board at the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Rmy Sautter, Rob Rowley and David Lowden will each retire by rotation at the AGM and will offer themselves for re-election.
Alice Perkins joined the board as a non-executive director on 2 March 2005 and in accordance with the articles of association, the board is recommending her election at the AGM.
A further non-executive director is in the process of being recruited.
Details of directors interests and, in relation to the executive directors only, awards under the share option and long-term incentive plans are given in the remuneration report on pages 73 to 80.
There were no changes in the directors registered interests in the shares of the company during the period from 31 December 2004 to 7 March 2005.
No director had any material interest at any time during the year in any transaction of significance in relation to the groups business.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 March 2005, the company had been notified of the following substantial interests 3 per cent or more in its ordinary share capital: Shareholder Holding % Threadneedle Asset Management inclusive of assets managed by Threadneedle Asset Management of which 5.88% is held by Zurich Financial Services and its group 45,741,956 10.23 Capital Group Companies a holding company for several subsidiary companies engaged in investment management business 30,639,999 6.85 Fidelity Investments 30,073,193 6.72 Scottish Widows Investment 18,093,060 4.05 Legal & General Group 15,345,657 3.43 Note The above list includes all institutions who have disclosed notifiable positions over the last year.
There are additional institutions with aggregate, non-disclosable holdings of above 3%.
Creditor payment policy The groups policy is to agree the terms and conditions of transactions with all suppliers in advance and to comply with them, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc has no trade creditors.
The equivalent of 43 days worth of purchases were due to trade creditors of the group at the year-end.
Corporate social responsibility CSR The group recognises that it has responsibilities towards its clients, employees, shareholders and suppliers, as well as the communities in which it operates.
During the year, the group formed a CSR steering committee and it has been agreed that the group will focus on its impact on the environment and the communities in which it operates.
Supporting our communities The group operates from over 270 offices in 70 countries around the world and each office exists within a local community.
The group will support local initiatives that make a positive contribution to society.
These include encouraging employees to do voluntary community work during normal working hours, promoting volunteering initiatives for individuals and teams and adopting a local charity.
In particular, it will support the promotion of volunteering activities as a contribution to employee motivation, job 66 satisfaction and team building.
the sixth sense of business Charitable donations of 96,067 were made by the group in 2004 2003 16,193.
The group made no political donations in 2004 2003 nil.
In response to the Tsunami Disaster of December 2004, the group is making a donation of $250,000 to UNICEF.
The company proposes to support a longer-term project in association with UNICEF and will provide its employees with an opportunity to contribute directly either through donation or fund-raising.
Local offices around the world contribute to their local communities.
For example among many initiatives in the US, employees have donated their survey hosting expertise to a non-profit voting awareness organisation and have raised money for the Food Bank and Salvation Army to help families in need celebrate Thanksgiving.
In the UK, the group works in partnership with the Charities Aid Foundation to facilitate charitable donations under the Give As You Earn scheme.
The scheme allows donations to be made in a tax efficient manner to organisations with charitable status within the UK.
Initiatives from within the business included the commercial board of Worldpanel UK volunteering to transform an unused piece of rough land into a landscaped garden and relaxation area at a local school.
Protecting the environment The group formalised its environmental policy statement in December 2004, which is published on its website.
The group is included in the FTSE4Good Index and has been assigned a low impact weighting for environmental impact.
The group considers the minimisation of environmental impact from its business operations to be a prime objective of its CSR activities.
During 2004, it commissioned an environmental review to monitor and audit the throughput and consumption of energy, water, paper and IT resources throughout the UK.
Recommendations from the study, which is due for completion in 2005, will outline ways in which TNS can increase energy efficiency and improve waste management practices.
The results will enable the group to set an environmental benchmark and assist environmental progress across its business operations.
Further initiatives made during the year included the installation of environmentally friendly engineering plants and boilers in the UK.
Health and safety The group aims to provide and maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and visitors to its premises and to comply with relevant health and safety regulation.
Employee involvement Full and open communication with employees is a priority for the group.
Internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well informed about the groups strategy and performance, as well as of developments at a group-wide and local level.
The Intranet system is available to the majority of employees around the world supported by print communications.
Local employee forums and work councils exist in a number of EU countries and the European Works Council discusses cross-border issues.
The group proposes in 2005 to undertake an employee commitment study across the group.
The study will use the TRI M stakeholder management system.
The main focus of the study is to understand how to strengthen employee commitment and it will help the group to improve its knowledge and understanding about employees interests and attitudes towards the company.
Wherever possible, vacancies that arise are advertised internally.
Consideration is given to all applications for employment regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, religious or political beliefs.
The group is supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled persons or employees who become disabled during their employment.
The group encourages employee participation in its future through share ownership.
During 2004, 1,034,244 ordinary shares were allocated to the Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan, 6,754,331 share options were awarded under the Executive Share Option Plan, 280,000 share options were awarded under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and 208,778 shares were awarded under the Equity Participation Plan.
During the year, the group employed an average of 12,731 people worldwide.
Authority to buy-in shares Under article 51 of its articles of association the company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The directors consider that the power to make purchases in the market of the companys own shares should be maintained and the necessary special resolution will be proposed at the AGM.
This power was not exercised during 2004.
67 the sixth sense of business Annual general meeting The 2005 AGM will be held on 11 May 2005 at 11.30 am at Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, TNS House, Westgate, London W5 1UA.
The notice convening the AGM is contained in a separate circular sent to shareholders with this report.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The financial statements, which appear in this report, have been prepared on a going concern basis.
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The adoption of IFRS will be first reflected in the interim report for the six months to 30 June 2005.
The expected impact of this change is discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 24 to 27 and analysed on pages 81 to 83.
By order of the board Ian Portal Company Secretary 7 March 2005 68 the sixth sense of business
