Corporate governance From 1 April 2003 until 19 May 2003, Marconi Corporation plc the The Revised Code continues with the recommendation to appoint a Company was an intermediate holding company, which owned the senior independent director.
However, as all of the non-executive majority of the Marconi group.
directors, except Mr P C F Hickson, were newly appointed between December 2002 and September 2003, it was not felt appropriate to On 19 May 2003, the effective date of the Groups restructuring the designate this role until the Restructuring had been completed and the Restructuring, Marconi Corporation plc was separately listed on the new non-executive directors had become more familiar with the Group London Stock Exchange and, as the ultimate parent company, became and their fellow directors.
On 22 October 2003 Mr I M Clubb was responsible for reporting on corporate governance for the Marconi designated Senior Independent Director but resigned his directorship group.
In respect of the period prior to 19 May 2003, the Board of on 26 January 2004 for personal reasons.
On 25 March 2004 M 2003 plc previously known as Marconi plc, the former ultimate Mr M K Atkinson was designated Senior Independent Director.
parent company, was responsible for corporate governance matters.
The Board ordinarily meets at least 10 times a year but holds In this report, the Company is reporting on its corporate governance additional meetings when circumstances require.
Between meetings, for the whole of the financial year to 31 March 2004 and will therefore the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer update the non-executive include the arrangements for the period between 1 April 2003 and directors on current matters.
In addition, the Chairman holds meetings 19 May 2003. with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to UK present, and the Senior Independent Director will be holding meetings companies listed with the United Kingdom Listing Authority is contained with the non-executive directors, without the Chairman present.
in the Combined Code, which was introduced in 1988.
During 2003, The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters to itself, is proposals for change were made by the Higgs Review and additional responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment guidance on audit committees was provided in the Smith Report.
policy, consideration of significant financial matters, review of the In light of these, a revised version of the Combined Code the Revised financial performance and strategic direction of the operating Code was issued in July 2003, which applies to reporting years businesses and establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority.
beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Directors receive appropriate training on appointment and as necessary The Companys formal obligation on this occasion is therefore to report thereafter.
They attend an induction programme which aims to provide on compliance with the original Combined Code, which is done formally an understanding of the Company, its strategy, structure, geographical at the end of this statement.
However, as the Revised Code builds upon spread of operations, financial position, the markets in which it the Combined Codes approach, much of this statement is also written operates, its products and technologies, its people and, where in the context of the Revised Code.
appropriate, their legal responsibilities as a director.
The directors have As the Companys American depositary receipts are listed on Nasdaq, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there it must also comply with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules including is an approved procedure by which all directors can obtain independent the recently introduced rules on corporate governance, as they professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their currently apply.
The Company has engaged the services of an external consultancy to The Board assist with Board performance evaluation, which will be undertaken The Company is controlled through the Board of directors which during the year commencing 1 April 2004. currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors who, with their different backgrounds, bring Board committees with them a wide range of expertise and experience to the Company.
Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination, Operations and The Board considers all five of the non-executive directors to be Remuneration Committees of the Board are published on the independent both in relation to the criteria set out in the Revised Code Companys website www.
com and are available on request and the Nasdaq rules on corporate governance.
The principal committees and a The names and biographical details of the directors, together with the description of their terms of reference, are as follows: membership of the principal Board committees are set out on page 27.
Audit Committee There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Mr M K Atkinson chairs the committee.
All the members of the Chief Executive Officer with no single individual having unfettered committee are independent non-executive directors.
The committee powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board meets formally at least four times a year with the Chairman, Chief and ensures that all directors receive sufficient accurate, clear and Financial Officer and other executive directors attending by invitation.
relevant information on financial, business and corporate matters, in a timely manner, to enable them to participate effectively in Board The committees principal activities relate to 1 the engagement of decisions.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments are external auditors and the monitoring of their effectiveness and his non-executive chairmanships of BizzEnergy Group Limited and Ergo independence, 2 considering the effectiveness of the internal audit Finance LLP.
function, 3 reviewing the Groups accounting and financial reporting procedures and systems of internal control, and 4 reviewing formal The Chief Executive Officers primary role is the effective management announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and proper control of the Companys businesses with the objective of including UK and US quarterly and annual results announcements achieving the delivery of the strategic and financial objectives approved and annual financial statements.
The Companys internal and by the Board from time to time.
external auditors attend committee meetings by invitation and have the opportunity to raise matters or concerns in the absence of executive directors.
28 To fulfil its responsibility for ensuring auditor objectivity and Operations Committee independence, the committee receives regular reports from the This committee meets at least twice a year.
Its current membership Companys external auditors in relation to any non-audit services comprises Ms K R Flaherty, who chairs the committee, Mr M J Donovan provided, proposed or contemplated and is required to pre-approve the and Mr W K Koepf.
The Committees main functions include the review provision of such services and take whatever actions or make whatever of the Groups manufacturing strategy, product cycle management, recommendations it feels are appropriate to maintain the objectivity and sales and marketing strategy, delivery performance, quality performance independence of the external auditors.
The committee is also responsible for the arrangements in relation to the Remuneration Committee Companys Financial Code of Ethics and its Speak up policy, which The Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration, on provides a facility for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, pages 35 to 43, describes the membership and terms of reference of about possible accounting irregularities, failures of internal controls the Committee.
It also sets out the Companys remuneration policy, or other similar matters.
The Code and policy are published on the practice and details of the remuneration of individual directors.
of this report will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Committee Executive Committee This committee is chaired by Mr J F Devaney.
The committee reviews This committee, which normally meets monthly, comprises the the balance of skills, knowledge and experience represented on the executive directors and seven nominated senior executives.
Board and makes recommendations to the Board concerning any The quorum of three requires the presence of at least two executive adjustments deemed to be necessary.
Mr M W J Parton chairs the committee.
The committees main After following a process, which involves the preparation of a job functions include approval of the Groups business plan and budget, the specification and assessment of the capabilities required to fulfil it, review of performance against plan, the Groups strategies in areas briefing an external executive search consultancy and interviewing any including technology, people, information technology, corporate candidates that the committee feels are appropriate from those identified communications and change programmes, all subject to approval by by the search consultancy, the committee makes recommendations to the Board.
This committee also deals with day-to-day matters of a the Board on all proposed new appointments of directors.
routine nature for which the quorum is two, one of whom must be an executive director.
The committee also fulfils the role of a business In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all directors risk committee.
are subject to reappointment at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and to reappointment thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Attendance at meetings The following table indicates the number of Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees held in the year to 31 March 2004 and attendance at those meetings.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number held 15624 Number attended number eligible to attend J F Devaney 15 15 N A 2 2 N A M K Atkinson 14 15 6 6 2 2 3 4 P S Binning 6 6 N A N A N A I M Clubb 8 9 5 5 1 1 4 4 M J Donovan 14 15 N A N A N A K R Flaherty 9 11 N A 2 2 3 4 C C Holden 9 9 N A N A N A W K Koepf 15 15 6 6 2 2 4 4 D F McWilliams 7 7 3 3 1 1 N A M W J Parton 15 15 N A N A N A All directors in office at the commencement of the annual general meeting held on 8 September 2003 were in attendance for the meeting.
Relations with shareholders investor presentations and share price information.
Shareholders are The Company gives a high priority to communication with shareholders.
able to put questions to the Company through its website.
The announcement of interim and final results provide opportunities for The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain a the Company to answer questions from institutional investors covering regular dialogue with the Companys major institutional investors and a broad range of issues.
In addition, there is regular dialogue with brief the other members of the Board on the views expressed by those institutional investors to ensure a mutual understanding of objectives.
In addition all directors receive analysts briefing notes on the The Companys website www.
com provides access for all Company.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available shareholders to information about the Company including the annual to institutional investors to discuss corporate governance matters, as report and quarterly financial reports, details of recent announcements, 29 Corporate governance continued and when required, and the Chairman invites major institutional A formal business risk management process, in accordance with investors, should they wish, to meet with newly appointed Turnbull guidance, has been followed during the year and up to the non-executive directors.
date of this report from which the Audit Committee has established a comprehensive internal audit plan.
The risk process identifies, evaluates The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from and manages significant risks faced by the Group.
Risks are identified individual shareholders.
Individual shareholders also have the through a bottom up process whereby each management unit map opportunity of attending annual general meetings, to put questions to risks they face, evaluate the likelihood of the risk occurring and the the Chairman and the other directors.
Directors also meet informally with impact if they do occur.
The Executive Committee has assessed and shareholders after these meetings.
The Company keeps under review prioritised the management unit risks, identified potential Group risks ways in which it can communicate more effectively with its shareholders and developed action plans to mitigate these risks to a desired level.
throughout the year as well as at annual general meetings.
Progress is reviewed quarterly against these plans.
It is the Companys practice to send the Notice of the Annual General The Groups outsourced internal audit function follows a plan which is Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days approved by the Audit Committee, developed from the Group risk before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions on each assessment process and designed to review internal controls, IT substantially separate issue.
Votes will be taken by poll at the systems and other ad hoc projects.
The Audit Committee and key forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the results, including any members of the Executive Team receive and assess reports on any votes withheld, will be published as soon as possible after the identified weaknesses with the system of internal control and conclusion of the meeting.
All directors are expecting to attend this recommendations to address these.
Developments in control processes Financial reporting The most significant element of risk management undertaken by the The Board includes a detailed review of the performance and financial Group during the year has been to complete its financial restructuring in position of the Groups businesses on pages 6 to 21.
The subsequent management of cash and debt has been available alongside the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives achieved through reducing working capital, delivering on a programme review and the Directors report, the Board seeks to present a balanced of disposals and improving the business profitability through gross and understandable assessment of the Companys position and margin improvement and cost reduction.
Furthermore, the Company publishes quarterly results announcements, which provide a regular update on the Companys The Chief Financial Officer intends to establish a Finance Committee performance throughout the year.
that will report to the Board on the management of financial risks and policy, including compliance with debt covenants, funding and capital Internal control structure, budgets and cash forecasts, and tax and treasury policy.
The Board has established procedures that enable the Group to comply A new treasury policy has been approved and adopted during the year with the guidance on internal controls issued by the Turnbull Committee to address the Groups new capital structure.
and that included in the Revised Code.
In addition, the Group intends A requirement of the Groups Notes, which were issued as a result of to comply fully with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules on corporate the financial restructuring, is to file quarterly reports with the SEC under governance, as they come into force.
The Group has therefore increased the capacity and capability of its central finance function, is implementing a new Responsibility consolidation and reporting IT system, and has established improved The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of disclosure controls over its financial reports.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control can only manage and not eliminate the risk of failing to A Financial Code of Ethics has been adopted for the Chief Executive achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
finance team, which is published on the Companys website.
The Code deals with honest and ethical conduct, disclosure in reports Risk and the control structure and accounts and compliance with laws and regulations.
A wider code A framework for managing risk exists within the Group and the Board of conduct for all employees has additionally been adopted, which is oversees an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing also published on the Companys website, this includes a Speak up the significant risks faced by the Group.
These risks include strategic, policy which provides the means of communication to enable operational, commercial and financial matters.
employees to raise concerns about the Groups financial conduct.
Terms of reference clearly define responsibilities of the Board, In 2004-05, the directors are committed to developing further the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee and written the internal control framework.
In particular, Section 404 of the policies establish levels of delegated authority throughout the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require the Chief Executive Officer Groups businesses.
and Chief Financial Officer to certify at 31 March 2005 the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal financial controls and requires the Groups external auditors to issue an opinion on the validity of this certification.
The Group is currently developing appropriate documentation and designing tests to demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
30 Control environment Reports from the Groups external auditors are presented quarterly to A comprehensive system exists for controlling the business and risks, the Audit Committee prior to filing of the Groups quarterly financial ensuring adequate stewardship of assets, reporting accurate and timely reports in the UK and US.
They discuss any internal control issues and financial information and maintaining proper accounting records.
Financial results and key operating statistics are prepared and reported Recently an issue indicating deficiencies in certain operational practices in accordance with Group policies and procedures.
Forecasts are at one of the Groups smaller subsidiaries has arisen and action has prepared each month and actual results are compared with forecasts been taken and further action is planned, which the Board believe and budgets and reviewed each month by the Board.
will enhance the controls and procedures at this subsidiary.
It is not currently believed that this issue has had or will have a material impact Budgets are prepared by management units, reviewed by the Executive on the Groups results or financial condition.
Committee and approved by the Board.
Management units have also prepared comprehensive assessments and evaluation of business risks Review of effectiveness that are reviewed by the Executive Committee.
The directors confirm that the Audit Committee has considered, within Corporate reviews and approval procedures are in place to cover the past 90 days, the adequacy of internal controls and that they have investments, disposals, strategy, capital expenditure, contract tenders, reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls described research and development investment, litigation, industrial relations, above, for the year ended 31 March 2004 and for the period to the date treasury management, insurance, taxation, outsourcing, pensions and of approval of the financial statements.
There were no significant changes in the design of the internal controls subsequent to the most recent evaluation.
Monitoring of internal controls Clear processes exist for monitoring internal controls and reporting The directors have also concluded that the disclosure controls and any significant control weaknesses and mitigation plans.
These are procedures are effective for the year under review and to the date of the co-ordinated by the Audit Committee, which has met six times during approval of the financial statements.
Compliance statement Business units and the Executive Team certify quarterly to the The Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority require the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, through a letter of Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained in Section assurance, compliance with internal policies and procedures, including 1 of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period and up to balance sheet reviews and revenue recognition, ethics and fraud, loan the date of approval of the financial statements.
Throughout, and since, note covenants, local laws and regulations, delegated authorities, the year ended 31 March 2004, the Company and previously M 2003 related party transactions, IT policy and reporting internal control plc, as the former ultimate parent company of the Marconi group has weaknesses.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the consider the letters of assurance, interview those who have prepared Combined Code, except for A2.1, in that from the beginning of the year them and monitor actions taken to address any significant issues.
until 22 October 2003 and from 26 January 2004 until 25 March 2004 Summaries of these certifications are presented to the Audit Committee no senior independent director had been designated for the reasons quarterly.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews relevant disclosures explained above.
of the Groups quarterly financial reports filed in the UK and US.
The Executive Team also reviews and approves the information disclosed in the Groups quarterly financial reports filed in the UK and US.
The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the system of internal control and carried out the following during the year: a review of the external audit plan, scope and materiality of audit work, key judgements, management representations, audit issues and resolution and compliance with accounting policies: a review of internal audit plans and linkage to the risk maps: consideration of management reports on financial results and key judgements, external management letters and internal audit reports and recommendations on internal control systems and any significant weaknesses: and a review of actions being taken to address control weaknesses in a timely manner.
