CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES OF THE COMBINED members in advance of Board meetings.
All Directors have CODE The Group is committed to high standards of corporate access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take governance.
This statement describes the manner in which the independent professional advice at the companys expense in company has applied the principles set out in the 1998 Combined the furtherance of their duties.
New appointments receive appropriately tailored inductions and the need for Director training is regularly assessed by DIRECTORS AND THE BOARD For the year ended February 2004, the company.
the Board of Tesco PLC comprised eight Executive Directors and eight independent Non-executive Directors.
During the last GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES The following paragraphs describe the year, the Chairman, Mr J A Gardiner, had primary responsibility key governance structures operating in the Group under the for running the Board.
Mr D E Reid took up position as Chairman overall direction of the Board.
The chief governance structures following Mr J A Gardiners retirement in April 2004.
The Chief are underpinned by the attendance of Non-executive Directors Executive, Sir Terry Leahy, has executive responsibilities for the who provide an independent insight to governance.
operations, results and strategic development of the Group.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and Executive Committee The Board delegates day-to-day and operate effectively for these positions.
Mr G F Pimlott was the business management control to the Executive Committee, which senior Non-executive Director for the year ended February comprises the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Mr R F Chase became Deputy Chairman and senior This meets formally almost every week and its decisions are independent Non-executive Director in March 2004 and communicated throughout the Group on a regular basis.
The Mr G F Pimlott remains a Non-executive member of the Board Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group and will retire in May 2005.
The Board ensures that no one policy, the monitoring and performance of the business and individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
reporting to the full Board thereon.
Further changes to the Board were announced during the reporting year as part of a process to ensure the balance of the Nominations Committee Appointments to the Board for both Board reects the changing needs of the business.
Mr E M Davies Executive and Non-executive Directors are the responsibility of and Mr K J Hydon joined as independent Non-executive Directors the Nominations Committee.
For the recruitment of a new in July 2003 and February 2004 respectively.
Both Mr J Gildersleeve Chairman the Committee employed the services of an external and Mr R S Ager retired as Executive Directors from the Board recruitment consultant to advise and oversee the process.
In March 2004, Mr R W P Brasher joined the consultant interviewed all Board members individually and Executive Board as Commercial Director and Ms L Neville-Rolfe confidentially to understand their views on the role of the took up the position of Group Company Secretary.
Internal and external candidates were considered and finally a report was produced for the Nomination Committees The Board requires that all Non-executive Directors be free consideration and decision.
At the resulting meeting the Board from any relationship with the executive management that could gave full support to the appointment of Mr D E Reid as be considered to hinder their independent judgement.
In the Chairman and this was discussed with major shareholders.
Boards view, all Non-executive Directors meet this requirement.
For the year ended February 2004, the Committee was chaired The full Board meets at least ten times a year and annually by Mr J A Gardiner and the members are set out in the table devotes two days to a conference with senior executives on on page 12.
As from 2 April 2004, Mr D E Reid chairs the longer-term planning, giving consideration both to the Nominations Committee except in relation to his own position.
opportunities and risks of future strategy.
The Board manages overall control of the Groups affairs through a schedule of As exemplified by the section on Directors and their interests matters reserved for its decision.
These include the approval of within the Directors report on pages 6 and 7, the companys financial statements, major acquisitions and disposals, authority Articles of Association ensure that, on a rotational basis, Directors levels for expenditure, treasury policies, risk management, Group resign every three years and, if they so desire and are eligible, governance policies and succession plans for senior executives.
All new appointments will be submitted for election in their first year.
The Board has been To enable the Board to make considered decisions, a written through a period of change, of both Non-executive and Executive protocol exists and has been communicated to senior managers Directors.
Mr G F Pimlott, who has served ten years, has been ensuring that relevant information is made available to all Board 8 TESCO PLC instrumental in facilitating that process and providing continuity are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance, throughout a period of transition.
Mr G F Pimlott will retire against material misstatement or loss.
It is the Boards view that he In addition to the Audit Committee, the company has in place remains an independent member of the Board until then and two further committees designed to monitor standards and manage will submit himself for re-election as required by the Articles certain risks.
These have been delegated to executive management of Association.
For certain joint ventures, the Board places reliance upon the systems of internal control operating Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon composed entirely of independent Non-executive Directors, partners Boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
The members are set out in the table on page 12.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Compliance Committee The Board delegates its responsibilities Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the for compliance with all necessary laws and regulations to the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are Compliance Committee.
This Committee has established a set out in the Report of the Directors on Remuneration on schedule for the regular review of the Groups operational activities pages 13 to 23. to ensure compliance with accepted practices and policies.
Audit Committee The Board has an Audit Committee, chaired The Committee, comprising two Executive Directors, the by Mr G F Pimlott and consisting entirely of independent NonCompany Secretary and three members of senior management, executive Directors, which meets a minimum of three times a normally meets four times a year.
Membership of the Audit Committee is set out in the table on page 12.
In July 2004, the chairmanship of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee The Group Committee will pass to Mr K J Hydon who brings relevant and has an established cross-functional CSR Committee that meets recent financial experience.
The Committees terms of reference a minimum of four times a year.
The CSR Committee is chaired are reviewed annually and represent current best practice.
Its by the Group Company Secretary, and its membership is made primary responsibilities include monitoring the system of internal up of senior managers from all parts of the business.
One of control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting its objectives is to identify threats and opportunities for the policies and reviewing the interim and annual financial statements coming year and to highlight emerging issues.
before submission to the Board.
The Committee considers that The CSR Committee uses CSR Key Performance Indicators the company complies substantially with the Revised Combined KPIs to track performance quarterly.
The KPIs feed directly Code issued in 2003.
The company is taking any necessary action into the Steering Wheel monitoring system explained below and in order to be fully compliant with the new code before it thus contribute to the overall monitoring of Group performance comes into effect next reporting year.
The Audit Committee and control evaluation by the Board.
Regular reports are made has satisfied itself that the company complies with the principles to the Executive Committee on CSR matters.
set out in the Smith Report.
The risk management policies, procedures and monitoring INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has overall methods described below equally apply to the companys CSR responsibility for internal control, including risk management, and activities, including the management of social, ethical and sets appropriate policies having regard to the objectives of the environmental risks, as advised by the ABI guidelines on social Group.
Executive management has the responsibility for the responsibility.
identification, evaluation and management of financial and nonThe Board recognises that many investors and other stakeholders financial risks and for the implementation and maintenance take an interest in how companies are managing non-financial of control systems across the Group in accordance with the risks.
The company endeavours to provide detailed information Boards policies and in line with best practice identified in the on its approach to corporate responsibility and its policies in Turnbull Report.
the annual Tesco Corporate Social Responsibility Review, and The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the on the website www.
com everylittlehelps effectiveness of the systems of internal control for the accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial Internal Control Environment The Group has a five-year rolling statements, although it should be understood that such systems business plan.
Every area and individual in the business is driven TESCO PLC 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED by objectives that are derived from the business plan.
The plan Overall, the Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the whole covers both revenue and capital expenditure and forms the management process provides adequate control over all major basis of business plans for all our business entities.
From this risks to the Group.
This is achieved through consideration of the Board, together with monitoring regimes based upon our regular reports from internal and external audit, alongside Steering Wheel, agrees the annual revenue and capital budgets.
The Steering Wheel is the term used to describe our balanced Other specialist functions within the Group, notably Trading Law scorecard approach, which we believe is the best way to achieve and Technical and Company Secretariat, provide assurance and results for our shareholders.
It sets out a broad range of targets advice on health and safety, regulatory and legal compliance and under quadrant headings of customers, operations, people and social, ethical and environmental issues SEE.
This allows the business to be operated and monitored their findings on a regular basis to the Compliance Committee.
on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
The  LLP, the companys external auditors, Executive Committee undertakes a formal review of progress contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects on a quarterly basis and any resulting actions considered of the internal financial control system arising from their work.
appropriate are communicated throughout the business.
Independence is strengthened by the requirement to rotate The capital investment programme is subject to formalised review audit partners every five years.
The engagement and procedures requiring key criteria to be met.
All major initiatives independence of auditors is considered annually by the Audit require business cases to be prepared, normally covering a Committee which recommends their selection to the Board.
minimum period of five years.
Post-investment appraisals are also carried out.
Communication A programme of communication exists and is constantly being developed to ensure that all staff are aware Risk management process At the highest level, the Board of the parameters that constitute acceptable business considers strategic risk every time it meets.
The two-day Board performance and the expectations of the Board in managing Conference, referred to earlier, considers where future risk.
This provides clear definition of the Groups purpose and opportunities and risks lie and helps shape our corporate strategy goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities of going forward.
Accountabilities for managing operational risks are companies, executive functions and individual staff.
clearly assigned to line management.
Internal controls have been developed over all risks in line with the risk appetite determined Risks and opportunities The company manages a broad range by the Board and are subject to review.
Formal risk assessments of financial and non-financial risks, including those relating to CSR are carried out routinely throughout the UK and international responsibilities.
The construction of the Key Risk Register takes businesses.
Procedures exist to ensure that significant risks and into account matters raised in the CSR assessment.
In the Boards control failures are escalated to senior management and the view, there are sufficient controls in place to manage SEE risks.
Board, as necessary, on a daily, weekly and periodic basis.
Customer focus is fundamental to delivering the overall strategy and the way risk is managed.
Business practices centre on serving Monitoring The monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the customer and in meeting those challenges the company the responsibility of the Board and line managers respectively.
recognises its responsibility to deliver safe, quality products at The Board maintains the Key Risk Register and considers during the right price.
formal risk assessments whether the actions being taken in mitigation are sufficient.
All companies have to face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business and the companys approach comes from the Tesco The internal audit function also operates on a risk-based Values.
The Values set out the standards that the Board wish to approach, helping managers with their risk responsibilities and uphold in how it treats its people.
These are supported by advising on appropriate controls.
Codes of Ethics and govern the relationships between the Annual statements received from CEOs further support the company and employees, suppliers and contractors.
The monitoring of key subsidiary operations.
These statements Compliance Committee regularly monitors adherence to these confirm that the Boards governance policies have been adopted codes.
The company is a signatory to the DTI Code of Conduct in practice and spirit.
and has met fully its obligations for implementing the Code.
10 TESCO PLC Managing health and safety and supply chain standards Health The Board regards the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity and safety standards are very important.
The company is to communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board committed to providing a safe shopping and working environment attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from for customers, staff and contractors.
The company has established policies, procedures and training Each year end, every shareholder may choose to receive a full to identify and minimise the risks inherent in a retail and Annual Report and Financial Statements or an abbreviated Annual distribution business.
Review and Summary Financial Statement.
At the half-year, all shareholders receive an Interim Report.
These reports, together The safety of our products is regarded as the highest priority.
with publicly-made trading statements, are available on the The company has established, over many years, a comprehensive Groups website, www.
com corporateinfo due diligence process supported by technical and product development standards and procedures.
This assurance covers PENSION FUNDS The UK pension scheme is a defined benefit staff training, providing guidance for and auditing of suppliers, scheme which has over 127,000 members and over 10,000 to ensure they supply quality products for the Tesco brand.
Note 27 in the Report and Accounts sets out the The company has conducted a comprehensive risk analysis of Groups pension arrangements in detail.
products, suppliers and factories upon which our audit For the year ended February 2004, the Trustee Company Board programme is based.
Auditing is carried out on both a routine comprised one Executive Director, Mr R S Ager, four senior and unannounced basis.
Supply chain risks can include, for managers and four members appointed from staff and example, a failure of standards relating to product safety, quality, pensioners.
Following Mr R S Agers retirement, the new Group animal welfare and worker welfare.
Company Secretary, Ms L Neville-Rolfe, will take up his role on Technical, due diligence and crisis management procedures are the Trustee Company Board.
Management of the assets is regularly reviewed in the light of the latest scientific research and delegated to a number of independent fund managers.
These expert opinion, to ensure that these risks are managed effectively.
fund managers have discretion to invest in shares of Tesco PLC, but only to the proportional weighting of the shares in the In-house experts are used as well as external advisors to look total market.
Details of pension commitments are set out in for and analyse emerging issues, so that appropriate action can note 27 to the financial statements on pages 49 to 51. be taken.
PROVISIONS IN THE COMBINED CODE Throughout the year ended RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Tesco listens to customers, staff, 28 February 2004, the company has been in compliance with all investors, Non-Governmental Organisations, suppliers and other of the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined key stakeholders.
Understanding what customers want is vital Code on Corporate Governance, except as with regard to to the business and the Board are committed to continuing this provision B.
1.7 on the length of Directors service agreements, listening, and extending it to other important stakeholders.
details of which are set out in the Report of the Directors on The Board recognises and attaches a high importance to Remuneration on page 16.
The Remuneration Committee has maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders in order to reviewed these contracts and the Board is moving to one-year understand shareholder views and communicate appropriately any contracts in line with market practice.
This shareholder communication is mainly co-ordinated by the Investor Relations department.
During the year, Executive Directors have met with 97 of the companys leading shareholders representing over 54% of the issued shares of the company.
While the focus of dialogue is with institutional shareholders, to whom regular presentations are made on company direction, care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
TESCO PLC 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nominations Remuneration Audit BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AS AT 28 FEBRUARY 2004 Committee Committee c Committee d Independent Directors Mr J A Gardiner Mr G F Pimlott Mr C L Allen Mr R F Chase Ms V Morali Dr H Einsmann Mr E M Davies a Mr K J Hydon b Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy a Mr E M Davies was appointed to the Board and the Nominations Committee and Audit Committee on 7 July 2003. b Mr K J Hydon was appointed to the Board and the Nominations Committee and Audit Committee on 23 February 2004. c Mr J A Gardiner and Sir Terry Leahy attended the Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
d Mr J A Gardiner and Mr A T Higginson attended the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
From 2 April 2004, Mr D E Reid became Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
