Corporate Governance Report The Company Directors set the policy to be followed by the Group and continue The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its main to be committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Group supports Committees during the period from 1 April 2003 until 30 April 2004, and the the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003. attendance of individual Directors.
The shaded areas indicate no meeting took The Board has conducted a review of how it operates with regard to the new place.
Full attendance by Board members at meetings of the Board, and by the requirements, as set out in the revised Code.
A number of these requirements members of the Committees at each Committee meeting is marked with a tick.
had already, or have now, been implemented, and details of the Groups Those Directors unable to attend the meetings in May, January and February, compliance is set out in the appropriate sections of this Report.
The Board mainly because the dates of those meetings had to be re-scheduled at shorter continues to work towards meeting the other requirements of the Code, with than normal notice, are as specified in the table.
a view to the full implementation of the Code by the completion of the next William Allan attended all of the meetings of the Remuneration Committee financial year, in accordance with the requirement to comply, or explain, for and all but one of the Audit Committee meetings.
John Maguire attended all reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. of the Audit Committee meetings and Margaret Ford attended one of the Audit The following describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied Committee meetings as an observer.
within the Group and reports the Groups compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board of Directors Board Committee Committee Committee The separation of the Non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Tuesday 22 April ensures that there is a well established division of authority and responsibility Tuesday 27 May Ian Chippendale at the most senior level within the Group.
At the year end, the Board comprised Thursday 19 Junethree Executive and five Non-executive Directors including a Non-executive Chairman.
The Non-executive Directors are from varied business and other Tuesday 8 July backgrounds, and all Directors have the benefit of induction visits and briefings Wednesday 9 July following their appointment to the Board.
Tuesday 19 August The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent and Wednesday 24 September free from any business or other relationship, which could materially interfere with Tuesday 28 October the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of the Non-executive Directors have held office throughout the year.
Tuesday 9 December Monday 22 DecemberIan Chippendale has been identified as the senior independent Non-executive Director.
Friday 9 January Margaret Ford All Directors retire by rotation such that approximately one-third of the Board Tuesday 27 January seeks reappointment each year.
Therefore, at the forthcoming Annual General Friday 27 February Margaret Ford Margaret Ford Meeting to be held on 9 July 2004, William Allan, Michael fide Kare-Silver and Tuesday 30 March Jo Connell will be required to retire as Directors and offer themselves up for Friday 30 April re-election to the THUS Group plc Board.
Following evaluation of the performance of each of those directors, it is confirmed that each continues to perform effectively in the role and demonstrates commitment to the role.
They are therefore All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, recommended by the Board for re-election.
who is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are observed.
Any Director wishing to do so, in furtherance of his duties, may take independent Details of Directors remuneration together with the Groups remuneration policy professional advice at the Groups expense.
and the principles under which they have been formulated and applied are described in the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 21 to 26.
Board Committees The Board has three principal standing committees: the Audit Committee, The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The composition, control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide purpose and function of each of these committees are described below.
reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Audit Committee to achieve business objectives.
The Audit Committee is comprised of three Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Ian Chippendale, the senior independent Non-executive Director.
It meets The Board meets monthly and has a schedule of matters concerning key aspects at least quarterly, has written terms of reference and its remit is to review the of the Groups activities which are specifically referred to it for its collective annual and interim Accounts and the appropriateness of accounting policies, decision, principally relating to the strategy, direction and financial performance to review internal controls and financial reporting, and to make recommendations of the Group.
The Board agrees its objectives on an annual basis and reviewed on these matters to the Board.
It also considers the appointment and fees of the its performance and processes, including those of its Committees, during the year.
external and internal auditors and reviews the risk management framework, the internal audit plan and resulting reports.
The Audit Committee discusses the action taken on problem areas identified by Board members or in the internal and external audit reports.
The Committee reviewed its own terms of reference and effectiveness in January and March 2004.
Some adjustments were made to the terms of reference to reflect the provisions of the new Combined Code, and its performance was assessed as effective.
The Committees terms of reference are displayed on the Companys website at www.
18 The Committee has established a policy on the provision of non-audit services To develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the Board by the external auditors which requires the Committee to approve specifically receives monthly an investor relations report, compiled with input from the the provisions of any such services within defined parameters.
Details of the Companys brokers, setting out key features and trends in relation to trading non-audit services performed during the year and the fees for those services, in the Companys shares and share price movements.
Analysts reports on the are contained in Note 2 to the Accounts on page 34.
The Committee in January Company, its competitors and the telecommunications sector are circulated and March 2004 assessed the effectiveness of the external audit service and to Board members on a regular basis.
Feedback from investors and analysts independence of the external auditors.
The Committees conclusion was that the after the Companys results announcements and presentations are regularly service continued to be effective and that the auditors remained independent, reported to the Board, frequently accompanied by an analysis by the Companys demonstrating effectiveness and commitment in the role.
advisers of investor reaction in comparison with its peers in the sector.
The Board also received during the year a detailed presentation and report from Makinson The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee Cowell, independent investment research consultants, following an analysis meetings to the Board, which receives and considers the minutes of all Audit by them of how the Company and its investor relations were perceived by the Committee meetings.
investment community and making recommendations for future development Nomination Committee of the Companys profile and activities in that area.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Groups Non-executive Chairman The Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by all Executive and also comprises the Chief Executive and the senior independent Nonand Non-executive Directors, gives those institutional and private shareholders executive Director.
It has written terms of reference and its remit is to consider attending the opportunity for communication with the Board.
Shareholders and make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and re-election present are encouraged to ask questions both during the meeting and after of Directors, having regard to the overall balance and composition of the Board, its conclusion.
and to review and advise upon issues of succession planning.
Consistent with its obligations under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The Committee and the Board are reviewing the Committees terms Authority FSA, the Company makes announcements to one of the Regulatory of reference and composition in light of the provisions of the new Combined Information Services approved by the FSA from time to time.
Internal control The Board has adopted an approach which is in line with the guidance In relation to Board appointments, the Committee, in liaison with the Board, issued by The London Stock Exchange in establishing the Groups internal prepares a profile of the requirements of the role in order to brief external control procedures and policies.
The revised Combined Code requires that the search consultants to provide a list of suitable candidates both external and, effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational, where appropriate, internal for the Committee to interview, leading then compliance controls and risk management, is reviewed at least annually to a short list and ultimate selection of the most suitable candidate for by the Directors.
Guidance to the Directors in respect of this requirement is also recommendation to the Board for appointment.
The proposed candidate provided by the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors is provided with the opportunity to meet Board members and the senior on the Combined Code, published in September 1999. management team prior to acceptance of the appointment.
The Directors of THUS Group plc have overall responsibility for the system Remuneration Committee of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
The system The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of four independent of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Non-executive Directors, is chaired by Michael fide Kare-Silver and meets to achieve business objectives.
Internal control, therefore, can only provide regularly.
The remit is to make recommendations to the Board on the Companys reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
framework for the remuneration of the Companys executives and its cost and, on behalf of the Board, to determine and review specified remuneration packages The purpose, authority and responsibility of the Groups Internal Audit function for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and designated senior managers.
is contained within a formal charter which is approved by the Board.
The function The Committee is committed to the provisions of the Combined Code and seeks supports the Directors in assessing key internal controls through a structured to design policies which will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and review programme.
senior managers of the required calibre.
The Committee also has responsibility The risk management framework adopted by the Group is designed to ensure for reviewing the operation of the Groups bonus and incentive schemes.
The that the key controls are, and have been, embedded into business processes.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of the Committee The risk management and internal control systems continue to be developed meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Remuneration across the Group and have enabled the Directors to be satisfied that the Group Committee meetings.
The Directors Remuneration Report for the year is set out was fully compliant with the Combined Code provisions on internal control on pages 21 to 26. in the course of the financial year ended 31 March 2004.
The Committee has reviewed and adjusted its terms of reference to reflect the provisions of the new Combined Code, and the terms are displayed on the Companys website at www.
Relations with shareholders As at 31 March 2004, the Company had 1,348.6 million shares in issue, approximately 77% of which were held by institutions and corporate shareholders with the remainder being held by private investors.
There is a regular dialogue with shareholders through the Annual Report and through a supplementary investor relations programme focused around the Companys preliminary and interim results announcements and periodic trading updates.
The Executive Directors presentation of results and trading updates is broadcast via webcast or telephone conference.
Following this, the Executive Directors undertake a series of formal presentations to existing and potential investors in London, Edinburgh and Glasgow.
During the year, the Company also arranged a number of operational tours for institutional and private investors.
19 Corporate Governance Report continued Control environment Monitoring The Group is committed to ensuring that an appropriate control environment The quarterly reviews of the Groups risks produce an assessment of residual exists, which will neither slow growth nor stifle innovation.
risk, by process, across the business which is presented to the Audit Committee each quarter.
The organisational structure of the Group is defined and communicated, and individual objectives and authority levels are identified.
Under the direction of the director of Risk Management, the effectiveness of internal control is audited and assessed by the Internal Audit function.
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups business.
The key decision-making body at Executive level The Safety Health & Environment team assesses whether the health and safety in the Group is the Management Board which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
risks are being appropriately controlled and conducts audits on the operation The Management Board focuses on business plan implementation, strategy, of the Groups health and safety management system.
competitive positioning, policy and customers and meets on a monthly basis An annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk in advance of the THUS Group plc main Board.
The following performance management processes is carried out by the Board.
management groups meet regularly and report to the Management Board.
Their focus is on the implementation of the years annual budget.
Going concern The Directors, after making appropriate enquiries, confirm that they are satisfied There is a Margin Review Committee meeting monthly which considers, by both that THUS Group plc has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities business and product lines, the operational revenue and margin performance to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have throughout the Group.
It also has the responsibility of improving forecasting and adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts on pages 28 to 44. budgeting procedures on an ongoing basis.
This Committee is closely monitored and reports to the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
The CFO also conducts Directors responsibility for the Accounts a detailed monthly review of the actual financial results.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group Business Operations, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, manages the and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those Accounts, the Directors day-to-day operation of the business, ensuring linkage from marketing, sales, are required to: provisioning and through to operational delivery.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Capital Planning and Programme Management, chaired by the Support Services director Ian Armour, tracks capital investment, major bids, facilities Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject Identification and assessment of business risk to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Accounts.
and evaluation of controls Prepare the Accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate The Groups risk management framework has again continued to develop to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
Risk Assessments are completed on all key processes and quarterly reviews are carried out by the Risk Management Group to ensure this is a The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which continuous process which is embedded into the business.
All aspects of business disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the risk such as financial, operational, strategic, compliance and business continuity Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the Accounts comply risk are covered by the Risk Assessments.
These are further supported by new with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such governance software which enables and requires risk owners to monitor and steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and review risks and associated controls within the Group on a quarterly basis.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The key sources of assurance over business risk have been integrated into the Auditors responsibilities Group which ensures a co-ordinated, consistent approach to the management The Groups registered auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are responsible for forming an of risk and advises and supports management to enable ownership of risk independent opinion on the Accounts of the Group as presented by the Directors, management to sit within the business.
and for reporting their opinion to the Groups members.
The Independent Auditors Report to the Members of THUS Group plc is set out on page 27.
