Audit Committee report This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance Vintners and an executive Director of Diageo plc.
Both have with the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined extensive financial experience.
Code and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Meetings Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on the role of the Audit Committee in meeting these requirements.
other occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for a Terms of reference meeting of the Committee is two members.
The Finance Director The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can be found and representatives from the independent auditor and the in the Corporate Governance area on the Companys website, are internal auditor attend meetings under a standing invitation.
The reviewed from time to time and approved by the Board of Tomkins.
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and other Directors They are based on the model terms of reference set out in the are able to attend meetings of the Committee under the practice Guidance Note produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries that any Director may attend any meeting of a Board Committee and Administrators and take account of the requirements of the provided that they have no conflict of interest in respect of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Guidance Notes set out in Sir business to be discussed.
It is usual practice for the Chief Executive Robert Smiths Report published in January 2003.
Officer to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other finance and business risk executives attend meetings and the Company The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee Chairman meetings their frequency, quorum, attendees and minutes, reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Full attendance was duties and responsibilities covering external audit, internal audit, recorded during the year except for one meeting where two out financial reporting, internal controls and risk management of the three members were present.
systems, whistleblowing, reporting responsibilities, authority delegated by the Board and a number of other matters.
Work of the Committee The Committee has established an agenda framework which Membership, appointment and experience Tomkins believes is vital for maintaining an appropriate focus The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive on the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out all of Directors who have served on the Committee throughout the year.
the operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the The members of the Committee are Norman Broadhurst, who was Committees terms of reference and is based on four regular appointed to the Committee, as Chairman, in December 2000, meetings, in February, May, August and November, which Ken Minton, who was also appointed in December 2000 and Jack coincide with the announcement of the quarterly results.
Keenan, who was appointed in November 2001.
No limitation on The areas covered by the agenda framework are as follows: the term of office is specified for members of any of Tomkins Board Committees.
Corporate Governance, including the regular review of the Committees terms of reference and annual evaluation, The Board has determined that all three members of the regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and Audit Committee are independent for the purposes of the review of auditor independence: Combined Code and rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the US Securities 2. Business Risk and internal audit, including the review of the Exchange Act of 1934 and section 303A of the New York Stock internal audit charter, update on Business Risk Assurance, Exchanges Listed Company Manual.
The members have widestatus of current audit plan and risk assessment and ranging financial, commercial and management experience internal audit plans for the new financial year, progress that they bring to the work of the Audit Committee.
against internal audit business plan and compliance with Biographical details are set out in the Annual Review, Auditing Standards: a separate report to shareholders.
Confidential sessions with the Audit Committee, in the The Chairman of the Committee, Norman Broadhurst, is a absence of Directors and Company executives: Chartered Accountant FCA and a Fellow of the Institute of 4.
Financial Reporting, including current accounting and Corporate Treasurers, having previously been group finance financial reporting matters and review of quarterly, interim director of Railtrack PLC 1994 to 2000 and joint deputy chief and annual statements including earnings releases: and executive and finance director of VSEL Consortium PLC 1990 to 5.
Independent Audit including audit plan and scope, review 1994.
In accordance with section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of of audit fees, cost effectiveness, reports on interim and 2002, the Board has determined that Norman Broadhurst is an annual financial statements, status reports, management audit committee financial expert as that term is defined under letters and the nature and extent of non-audit services.
The the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, having audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be significant, relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial and covered and how the audit is to be conducted.
The accounting knowledge and experience.
Ken Minton has held a Chairman of the Audit Committee meets periodically with number of senior management positions having been Managing the independent auditor to discuss progress on the audit Director and then Chief Executive of Laporte PLC and Jack Keenan and the major points to arise, and has the opportunity to has held a number of senior management positions in assess the effectiveness of the process.
The Committee is international companies having been Chairman of Kraft also able to assess the effectiveness of the process through International, Chief Executive of Guinness United Distillers and reports made to the Committee by the independent auditor.
Directors Report and Accounts 2004 13 Audit Committee report continued In addition to the items considered by the Committee under audit fees for the year can be found on page 31 of the the agenda framework, during 2004 other important issues Directors Report and Accounts.
considered included regular reviews of the internal control The Companys practice, in accordance with the Companies Act systems and the statement to be made in the Directors Report 1985 and the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment and Accounts in respect of internal controls, Group risk profile, and termination of the independent auditor, involves a Group tax reports, the rules governing the employment of recommendation from the Audit Committee to the Board, present and former employees of the independent auditor see which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in below, audit partner rotation, whistleblowing procedures general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, see below, updates on compliance with the Combined Code, where the independent auditor is accountable to the Audit review of tax services provided by the independent auditor and Committee, which has the authority to appoint or dismiss the update of IT systems.
Confidential meetings with independent auditor without reference to shareholders.
representatives of the independent audit and internal audit functions, in the absence of executives, took place during the With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established year.
Considerable time and emphasis have been placed by the guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former Committee on compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanesemployees of the independent auditor.
Tomkins will not Oxley Act of 2002 and detailed progress reports were received engage, on a part-time or full-time basis, any person who by the Committee at each of its meetings.
This has been the is or was an employee of the Companys independent auditor, focus of attention of the Business Risk Assurance and internal where that person has worked on the Groups audit either as audit function during the year, with a commensurate amount a principal or partner at any time during a period of not less of resources applied to these responsibilities.
than three years prior to the proposed date of joining the Tomkins Group.
In addition, though Tomkins may employ an There is a close liaison with the Business Risk Assurance and employee of the Companys independent auditor where such internal audit function which is actively engaged in the person has never worked on the Groups audit either as a business risk assessment processes in the Groups businesses principal or partner, a period of not less than one year must and also provides guidance and assistance in the development elapse prior to the proposed date of that person joining the of risk mitigation plans.
Each quarter, the Committee receives Company.
Any former employee of the independent auditor a summary of the review of the business risks and any related who joined the Company before the independent auditor was financial exposures which it considers.
The risk assessment appointed will remain unaffected.
process and risk mitigation plans are an important part of the development of the business strategies.
Business Risk Assurance During the year, the Committee and the Board approved is considered at the quarterly reviews with the businesses, the whistleblowing procedure for the confidential and where all of the major risks are discussed.
anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters, in accordance In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services with the requirements of section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act provided by the independent auditor, the Committee has of 2002.
When a call is received on the dedicated telephone taken account of the rules of the US Securities and Exchange line, the Vice-President, Business Risk Assurance immediately Commission which regulate and, in certain circumstances, reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee all concerns prohibit the provision of certain types of non-audit services by raised.
A course of action is agreed and a report is prepared for the independent auditor.
Non-audit services are ordinarily put review at the next meeting of the Audit Committee, including out to tender and require the approval of the Chairman of the details of actions taken to deal with the matters raised.
The Audit Committee above certain levels.
During the year, specific Chairman of the Committee will report all cases of projects requiring tax services were the subject of a tender whistleblowing to the Board.
The Companys Code of process and in a number of cases the work was not awarded to Conduct and Ethics includes the whistleblowing procedure.
the firm of the independent auditor.
Certain other rules were No reports were received by the Committee during the year.
considered and adopted by the Committee during the year, including those relating to audit partner rotation, and relevant Shareholders are given the opportunity at the Annual General ethical guidance issued by the professional bodies in the Meeting to ask the Chairman of the Committee questions on Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, in particular this report and any other related matter.
that the external auditor should not audit its own firms work, N N Broadhurst make management decisions for the Company, create a Chairman of the Audit Committee mutuality of interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company.
The Committee believes that, taken together, 23 February 2005 the adoption of these rules and regulations provides adequate protection of auditor independence.
All fees proposed by the external auditor must be reported to the Audit Committee and prior approval is required from the Chairman of the Audit Committee for any projects above specified limits.
