Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system actions being taken by business unit management to manage of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To fulfil the risks and achieve their objectives.
this responsibility the Directors have established a planning, Financial plans each business prepares financial plans in control and performance management framework within which accordance with a defined format, which includes consideration each of the Groups businesses operates.
Within this framework, of risks.
To the extent risks are both reasonably estimable and the management of each of the businesses considers strategic, likely to occur, they are reflected specifically in the respective operational, commercial and financial risks and identifies risk business plan.
Management at the Corporate Centre reviews the mitigation actions.
Whilst acknowledging the overall financial plans with the business units and a summary is presented responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors to the Board for approval.
are aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Balance sheet reviews business unit and Corporate Centre provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial management conduct periodic, on-site reviews of misstatement or loss.
underlying rationale and support for the significant line item components comprising the balance sheets for each business in During the period under review, the Directors were not aware the Group.
of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss.
Capital authorisation approval all significant capital expenditures The planning, control and performance management framework, are subject to a formal capital authorisation process, which takes into which includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical risks.
For and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, has been significant capital projects, a post-investment analysis is completed in place throughout the financial year and up to the approval to facilitate continuous improvement in the capital planning process, date of the Directors Report and Accounts.
Each business units including risk identification and mitigation.
management identifies and assesses the key business risks affecting the achievement of its objectives.
Business unit Reporting, analysis and forecasts all businesses are required to management also identifies the risk management processes report monthly to the Corporate Centre on financial performance.
used to mitigate the key risks to an acceptable level and, where Comparisons are made with plan, forecast and prior year and appropriate, additional actions required to further manage and significant variances and changes in the business environment are mitigate them.
The risk summaries developed out of this process explained.
Each business reassesses its forecast for the financial are updated at least annually.
In addition, Corporate Centre year on a monthly basis.
Quarterly, each business prepares a management considers those risks to the Groups strategic forecast for the following eighteen months and reviews objectives that may not be identified and managed at the projections for the current and following year.
Financial strategy the financial strategy includes assessment In connection with quarterly business reviews, relevant executives of the major financial risks related to interest rate exposure, discuss risk management activities with Corporate Centre foreign currency exposure, debt maturity and liquidity.
The key risks and mitigation strategies are also a comprehensive global insurance programme using the external discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee as well as insurance market and some limited use of an internal captive the full Board.
Group Treasury manages hedging activities, relating to financial risks, with external cover for net currency The risk management processes described above are applied to transaction exposures.
The Group Tax function manages tax major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well as compliance and tax risks associated with the Groups activities.
operational risks within the business including environmental, The Audit Committee, through the Finance Committee, oversees health and safety.
the financial strategy as well as the tax strategy and considers the The other key elements of the Performance Management System, associated risks and risk management techniques being used by which constitutes the control environment, are: the Group.
Business strategy reviews each business is required to prepare a Reporting certifications in connection with the preparation of strategic position assessment taking into account the current and the annual and quarterly financial statements, senior business likely future market environment and competitive position of the general management and financial management sign a certificate business with specific consideration given to strategic risk.
The which includes a declaration regarding the existence of internal Corporate Centre management reviews the strategy with each controls, the proper recording of transactions and the business and the Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
identification and evaluation of significant business risks.
These certifications were expanded to encompass Section 302 of the Business reviews on a quarterly basis, Corporate Centre Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in support of statements required to management performs extensive reviews with each business.
be made by Tomkins Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers.
These reviews consider current and projected financial and See further discussion of Sarbanes-Oxley overleaf.
operating results, and address the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives, the risks affecting their achievement and the 20 Internal control continued Sarbanes-Oxley as a foreign private issuer FPI listed on the NYSE in the US, the Group is subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act.
In particular, Section 404 of the Act requires certifications by management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and requires the independent auditors to express an opinion on the Boards assertions regarding such internal controls.
Accordingly, the Group has undertaken a project to ensure Tomkins is in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Act by 31 December 2006 the effective date for the Group as a FPI.
While the certification and external audit opinion on internal controls over financial reporting will be reported in Tomkins US SEC filings, the results of Tomkins compliance with the Act will serve to further strengthen the internal control framework for the Group.
The Group has an established internal audit function: the Vice President Business Risk Assurance directs the activities of the internal auditors on a day-to-day basis and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board at least four times a year.
Due to the importance and significance of the effort required to achieve Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, during 2004 the Board has directed substantially all internal audit resources towards supporting the Sarbanes-Oxley project described above.
As a result, internal audit is primarily focused on risks and controls over financial reporting.
In 2004, internal audits support has primarily been assisting management in completing controls documentation, assessing design effectiveness and developing test plans.
Internal audits support is expected to continue in 2005 and 2006 but will shift to testing the operating effectiveness of controls in higher risk areas and providing the Board with assurance over managements testing process in other risk areas.
However, with the recently announced one-year Sarbanes-Oxley compliance extension for FPIs, it is likely that some proportion of internal audit resources will be deployed to perform internal audit reviews in areas other than financial reporting controls in 2005 and 2006.
As part of their financial audit responsibilities, the independent auditors also provide reports to the Audit Committee on the operation of internal controls affecting key financial processes.
The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 1 January 2005 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for directors in the Combined Code Internal Control document issued in September 1999.
