Corporate Governance report The Board promotes the highest standards of corporate Newlands, temporarily assumed certain executive governance within the Company through its support and responsibilities until the recruitment of James Nicol as Chief application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in Executive in February 2002.
It is the Boards view that this Section 1 of the Combined Code.
A summary of the Companys short-term arrangement did not affect Mr Newlands system of applying the principles and the manner in which the independence.
Accordingly, the Board believes that there are provisions in Section 1 have been complied with are set out in no such relationships that could materially interfere with the this report to shareholders.
Section 1 of the Combined Code exercise of their independent judgment.
Marshall Wallach is sets out the main and supporting Principles of Good the only non-executive Director deemed not to be independent Governance for companies, which are split into the following as a result of his advisory capacity to the Gates family who are areas: directors, remuneration, accountability and audit, and substantial preference shareholders in the Company.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for a period of two years, which is renewable by agreement with the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive A Directors Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on weekdays 1.
The Board and will also be available for inspection at the place of the The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors.
Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to until it ends.
The Combined Code recommends the provide leadership of the Company, to approve the Companys appointment of a senior independent non-executive Director strategic objectives, to ensure that the necessary financial and and Sir Brian Pitman has served in such capacity during the year other resources are made available to the management to under review.
The roles of non-executive Directors are to enable them to meet those objectives and to operate within a scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed framework of effective controls which enables the assessment objectives, help develop proposals on strategy and monitor and management of principal business risks.
The Board, which the reporting of performance, including satisfying themselves has reserved certain specific matters to itself for decision, is as to the integrity of financial information and that financial responsible for approving overall Group strategy and financial controls and systems of risk management put in place by the policy, acquisition and divestment policy and major capital Company are robust and effective.
They meet together from expenditure projects.
It also appoints and removes members of time to time in the absence of management and the Chairman the Board and Board Committees, and reviews normally presides over such meetings.
recommendations of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and the appointment Directors receive a range of information about the Company of the independent auditor and the financial performance and upon appointment and, where appropriate, any training that operation of each of the Companys businesses.
is necessary for them to carry out their duties effectively.
An induction programme is available which aims to provide an The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer understanding of the Company as a whole, including its responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group strategy, structure, geographical spread of operations, financial subject to certain financial limits above which Board approval position, markets, products, technologies and people, as well is required.
Such delegated authority includes such matters as their legal responsibilities as a Director.
The Directors have as operations, acquisitions and divestitures, investments, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary capital expenditure, borrowing facilities and foreign whose removal may be effected only with the approval of the currency transactions.
There is an approved procedure by which all Directors The Board of Directors is comprised of a non-executive Chairman, can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys five additional non-executive Directors and two executive expense in furtherance of their duties, if required: this Directors who together, with their different ages, financial, procedure is reviewed periodically.
commercial, technical and operational expertise and cultures, The Board meets not less than five times a year, and will hold bring with them a wide range of experience to the Company.
additional meetings when circumstances require.
During the year The Board has determined that David Newlands, Norman to 1 January 2005, the Board met on six occasions, including a Broadhurst, Jack Keenan, Ken Minton and Sir Brian Pitman meeting held solely to consider and approve Group strategy.
are independent, as they are independent of the Companys Between meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer executive management and free from any material business update the non-executive Directors on current matters and there or other relationship with the Company either directly or as is frequent contact to progress the affairs of the Company.
a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has Attendance by each individual Director at Board and Committee a relationship with the Company.
In December 2000, at the meetings held during 2004 is set out in the table overleaf: request of the Board, the non-executive Chairman, David Directors Report and Accounts 2004 15 Corporate Governance report continued Health, Safety and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings held Meetings held Meetings held Meetings held Director attended attended attended attended Meetings held attended David Newlands 6 6 N A N A N A N A 1 1 N A N A Norman 6 6 4 4 2 2 1 1 N A N A Broadhurst Jack Keenan 6 6 4 3 2 2 1 1 N A N A Ken Lever 6 6 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Ken Minton 6 6 4 4 2 2 1 1 4 4 James Nicol 6 6 N A N A N A N A N A N A 4 4 Sir Brian Pitman 6 6 N A N A N A N A 1 1 N A N A Marshall Wallach 6 6 N A N A N A N A 1 1 4 3 Notes: 1 N A Not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
2 During the year, other Directors have attended meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Health, Safety and Environment Committee by invitation.
These details are not included in the above table.
3 On the rare occasion where a Director cannot attend a meeting, he will normally, prior to the meeting, make his views on the agenda items known to the Chairman or, in respect of Committee meetings, to the chairman of the respective Committee.
The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and international and management experience having been Chairman much of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of of Kraft International, Chief Executive of Guinness United Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be found Distillers and Vintners and an executive director of Diageo plc.
on the Companys website, www.
The Code of Norman Broadhurst brings substantial international financial Conduct and Ethics applies to all Directors, officers and experience to the Board having previously been group finance employees, including the principal executive, financial and director of Railtrack PLC and joint deputy chief executive and accounting officers, as required by section 406 of the US Sarbanesfinance director of VSEL Consortium PLC.
Oxley Act of 2002, the related rules of the US Securities and 2.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Exchange Commission and the rules of the New York Stock There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman Exchange.
The Code contains provisions in paragraph XVI under and the Chief Executive Officer, with neither having unfettered which employees can report violations of company policy or any powers of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The applicable law, rule or regulation including those of the US Chairman is responsible for running the Board and ensures that Securities and Exchange Commission.
US employees have the all Directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, added protection of section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of business and corporate matters to enable them to participate 2002, which prohibits the discrimination by a company or others effectively in Board decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the against an employee where such violations are reported.
The Board is provided with comprehensive briefing papers on items current procedure, which is set out in Tomkins Code of Conduct under consideration.
and Ethics, provides for information to be given anonymously or by named employees under conditions of confidentiality.
Those The Chairman, David Newlands, is Chairman of Kesa Electrical plc and employees who come forward and give their name are assured PayPoint plc and Deputy Chairman of The Standard Life Assurance that they will receive the full protection of section 806 and no Company.
Whilst these are important appointments, the Board of retaliation will take place.
This is predominantly a US requirement Tomkins believes that the Chairman continues to be able to carry out but the principles are applied in other jurisdictions, subject to his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Company.
compliance with local employment and other law.
The Chief Executive Officers primary role is the running of the Re-appointment of Directors Companys businesses and the development and implementation At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, of strategy.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to James Nicol, Jack Keenan and Norman Broadhurst will stand for meet with the Chairman and with the Chief Executive Officer re-appointment.
Details of their terms of appointment can be periodically, either together or separately, to consider and discuss found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
The Board a wide range of matters affecting the Company, its business, strongly supports their re-appointment and recommends that strategy and other matters.
shareholders vote in favour of their re-appointment.
Jack Keenan brings to the Board and the affairs of the Company considerable 16 Corporate Governance report continued 3.
Board Committees Committee recommends to the Board the names of the Directors The Board has established a number of Committees and receives who are to seek re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting reports of their proceedings.
Each Committee has its own in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
delegated authority as defined in its terms of reference, which are During the year, no new Board appointments were made.
reviewed periodically by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that its Accordingly, the Nomination Committee was not called upon to Committees have written terms of reference which conform to initiate a recruitment process, but the Committee and Board are best corporate governance practice.
The terms of reference for aware of, and support, the principles set out in section A.
4 of the all Board Committees can be found on the Companys website, Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
co. uk, or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee K J Minton Chairman, J Nicol, M F Wallach The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all Board Committees upon the recommendation of the The Health, Safety and Environment Committee meets at least Nomination Committee.
The Committee is chaired by an independent non-executive Director and its membership also includes the Chief The Company Secretary is Secretary to all Board Committees.
Its principal role is to determine, on behalf of The principal Committees, their membership, a brief description the Board, the framework or broad policy and objectives in the of their terms of reference and their duties are as follows: areas of health, safety and the environment HSE and propose any amendments to existing policies for approval by the Board.
Audit Committee It also reviews managements performance in the achievement of N N Broadhurst Chairman, K J Minton, J M J Keenan HSE objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be found on for compliance with all local health, safety and environmental pages 13 to 14. codes of practice, legislation and relevant industry practice.
More details of the work of the Health, Safety and Environment Remuneration Committee Committee can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility K J Minton Chairman, N N Broadhurst, J M J Keenan report in the Annual Review, a separate report to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year General Purposes Committee and on other occasions when circumstances require, comprises J Nicol Chairman, K Lever, E H Lewzey, J E Middleton, N C Porter, independent non-executive Directors and has responsibility for K A Sullivan, M T Swain, N P Wilkinson determining Company policy on executive remuneration for approval by the Board.
It also determines specific remuneration The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
packages and compensation packages on employment or early It comprises executive Directors and senior executives and the termination of office for each of the executive Directors of the quorum requires the presence of at least one executive Director.
The Committee takes independent advice from The Committee deals principally with day-to-day matters of a consultants as and when required.
All decisions of the routine nature and matters delegated to it by the Board.
Remuneration Committee in respect of remuneration packages 4.
Board, Committee and individual evaluations of executive Directors are referred to the Board.
No executive Under the direction of the Chairman, evaluations of the Director takes part in any discussion or decision concerning his effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee also monitors Directors were conducted during the year.
The evaluation the compensation packages of other senior executives in the processes built on the experiences of the previous years Board Group below Board level.
evaluation and concentrated on six key elements: i the optimum The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found mix of skills and knowledge amongst the Directors: ii clarity of on pages 5 to 12. goals and processes: iii tailoring the evaluation to the specific circumstances of Tomkins: iv the culture of candour that Nomination Committee encourages constructive evaluation: v regular reviews of D B Newlands Chairman, N N Broadhurst, J M J Keenan, assessment criteria: and vi full disclosure of procedures and K J Minton, Sir Brian Pitman, M F Wallach criteria to the Board.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board evaluation Board on all proposed appointments of Directors through a The results of the second Board evaluation were that progress formal and transparent procedure.
The Committee meets as continues to be made in improving the effectiveness of the Board and when required.
and that a number of small changes to processes and procedures In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, may improve performance even further.
In line with 2003, the Directors are subject to re-appointment at the Annual General evaluation found that the wide range of skills and experience Meeting immediately following the date of their appointment, of the present group of Directors provided a sound basis for an and thereafter they have to seek re-appointment no more than effective Board.
The current Board structure was felt to serve the three years from the date they were last re-appointed.
The Company well and with the matter of succession under periodic Directors Report and Accounts 2004 17 Corporate Governance report continued review, no change to the structure was felt necessary.
Directors B Remuneration considered that financial and operational reporting to the Board were of a high standard, and suggestions were made on The Remuneration Committee report to shareholders can be improving the reporting even further.
The matters identified in found on pages 5 to 12 and sets out the Companys remuneration the Board performance evaluation have been considered by the policy, procedures and the remuneration of individual Directors Board and action has been taken to address them.
Committee evaluations This was the first year that a formal evaluation of Board C Accountability and Audit Committees has taken place.
The Committees evaluated were the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the 1.
The Health, Safety and Environment The Board, through the Business, Operating and Financial reviews, Committee and the General Purposes Committee were not included seeks to provide a detailed understanding of each business of in the evaluation this year, but consideration will be given as to the Group.
In conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the whether these committees should be included in future Chief Executives statement, the Overview of principal markets evaluations.
The process of evaluation included inviting all Directors and the Directors report, the Board seeks to present a balanced to give their views on the effectiveness of the respective Board and understandable assessment of the Companys position committees and, in the case of the Audit Committee, the views and prospects.
of a number of other parties were sought.
There was general agreement that each Committee carries out its duties and The above statements are included in the Annual Review, obligations effectively, is made up of independent non-executive a separate report to shareholders.
Directors, and has the appropriate mix of skills and experience and, 2.
Internal control in the case of the Audit Committee, recent and relevant financial Further information on the internal control environment within experience.
Committee members acknowledged that they receive which Tomkins operates may be found in the Directors statement concise background material of appropriate quality and detail in on internal control on page 20. sufficient time to allow for proper consideration and preparation.
Committees met often enough during the course of the year to 3.
Going concern deal with their respective business and meetings were conducted The Directors are confident, on the basis of current financial in a manner that encouraged open communication, meaningful projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group participation and the proper resolution of issues.
It was generally have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the recognised that the chairman of each Committee facilitated but did foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt not overly influence Committee meetings.
Suggestions were made the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in respect of improvements to reports to the Audit Committee 4.
Whistleblower reporting procedures eg corporate governance and to the Remuneration Committee Under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, all public eg the latest developments in executive remuneration.
companies, including non-US public companies such as Tomkins, Individual evaluations acting through the Audit Committee of the Board, must provide Individual evaluations of both the executive and non-executive a procedure for the receipt, retention and treatment of Directors were conducted by the Chairman.
The evaluations built complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, upon comments made in respect of the Board and Committee internal controls or auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and evaluations and Directors were able to express more personal the Board have agreed a procedure for the confidential and views to the Chairman.
The Chairman has concluded that each anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding Director continues to make an effective contribution to the work these matters.
of the Board, they are well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by the Board, have a good understanding of the Companys businesses and their commitment to the role remains strong evidenced by the attendance records set out in this report.
The performance of the Chairman is ordinarily reviewed annually by the Board in his absence, led by the senior independent Director.
18 Corporate Governance report continued It has been the Companys practice to send the Notice of the D Relations with Shareholders Annual General Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and to propose The Company places a high degree of importance on maintaining separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
good relationships and communications with both institutional and private investors and ensures that shareholders are kept Institutional shareholders informed of significant Company developments.
The Board notes that Section 2 of the Combined Code seeks to encourage more active participation by institutional In order to assist members of the Board to gain an understanding shareholders including entering into a dialogue with companies of the views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings and making considered use of their votes principles which the the Board receives an Investor Relations Report, which covers a Company supports.
wide range of matters including a commentary on the perception of the Company and views expressed by the investment Compliance statement community.
Analysts reports are also made available to all The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require Directors.
The announcement of quarterly, interim and final the Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained results provides opportunities for the Company to answer in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Tomkins considers that questions from institutional shareholders covering a wide range throughout the year to 1 January 2005 the Company has been in of topics.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the July Director hold a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except for to ensure the mutual understanding of objectives.
Regular reports those matters indicated in the Remuneration Committee Report.
are made to non-executive Directors by the Chairman, Chief The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Executive Officer and Finance Director of the key points to Director required under section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act emerge from meetings they have had with substantial of 2002, and the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer participates in industry Commission, will be filed as exhibits to the Companys Form 20-F. conferences organised by investment banks, which are attended In July 2005, Mr. Nicol will certify to the New York Stock by existing and potential shareholders, and he holds regular Exchange, pursuant to Section 303A.
12 b, that he is unaware of meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The any violations by the Company of the New York Stock Exchanges Company exercises care to ensure that all price-sensitive corporate governance listing standards.
information is released to all shareholders at the same time, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Company has placed on its website a general summary of the and Regulation FD in the US.
significant ways in which the Companys corporate governance differs from that followed by domestic US companies under the The Companys website provides shareholders and potential New York Stock Exchanges listing standards, as required by investors with information about the Company, including annual section 303A.
11. and interim reports, trading updates, recent announcements, investor presentations, share price information, Group policies and the terms of reference of its Board Committees.
Shareholders are also able to put questions to the Company via its website.
The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from shareholders on a wide range of matters.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to attend the Annual General Meeting to put questions to the Chairman and to the chairmen of Board Committees.
The Chief Executive Officer gives a presentation to shareholders covering a wide range of matters affecting the Company and its business and shareholders have the opportunity to ask him questions.
The Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting following each vote on a show of hands.
In the event of a poll being called, the result will be published as soon as possible after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors also meet informally with shareholders before and after the meeting.
The Company keeps under review ways in which it can communicate more effectively with its shareholders throughout the year, as well as at the Annual General Meeting.
