qxd 24 11 2004 18:11 Page 25 Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys Auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board A Liggett Director and Company Secretary 30 November 2004 Corporate Governance Statement In June 1998 the Hampel Committee and the London Stock Exchange published the Combined Code on corporate governance.
This combines the Cadbury Code on corporate governance, the Greenbury Code on Directors remuneration and new requirements arising from the findings of the Hampel Committee.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the period with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except for Provisions A1.3 and A6.1.
In regard to A1.3, the Chairmen met with the Non-Executive Directors on an informal basis during the period.
Separate formal meetings between the Chairmen and the Non-Executives will be held at least annually.
In regard to A6.1, the Board does not currently undertake a formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees, but it is committed to putting in place and conducting such a process in the forthcoming year.
The Company complies with all other provisions of the Code.
Code Provision D. 3.1 requires the members of the Audit Committee to be named in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
WA McIntosh Chairman, VH Watson and The Rt Hon JM Jack have served on the Committee throughout the period.
Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 25 WRSSVBDU BKLUHV SGI 0 TOP arb04.
qxd 24 11 2004 18:11 Page 26 Corporate Governance Statement continued Attendance at Board Committee meetings The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 53 week period ended 2 October 2004 and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Board AuditRemuneration Nomination of Directors Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 2 1 SKM Williams 10 2 BFJ Bester 10 2 ND Ounstead 9 2 A Liggett 10 2 WA McIntosh 811 VH Watson 1021 JM Jack 1021 Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied in connection with Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Dialogue with shareholders The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making annual presentations and communicating regularly throughout the year.
The Company also posts financial information on its website www.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been put in place from the start of the period to the date of the approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 26 WRSSVBDU BKLUHV SGI
