TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Nominations committee report For the year ended 31 December 2004 The Nominations Committee was established in July 2003, board appointments having previously been dealt with by a combined Remuneration & Nominations Committee.
Its principal role is to identify and nominate for board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It is required to prepare a description of the role, and capabilities required, for any appointment, and to maintain contact with major shareholders about appointments to the board.
It also reviews the induction process for newly appointed directors, reviews annually the time required of non-executive directors, keeps the structure, size and composition of the board under review, and considers board succession planning for both executive and non-executive directors.
During the year, the committee members were Tim Stevenson chairman, together with Peter Maydon and, until April 2004, Charles Fisher.
Peter Maydon is an independent non-executive director.
Charles Fisher retired from the board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, following which Ted Adams and Chris Bunker became members of the committee.
Chris Bunker is an independent non-executive director.
During the year, the committee formulated a recommendation to the board for the appointment of a chief executive designate, to succeed Frank McKay who was due to retire in October 2005.
Following this process, the appointment of Geoff Cooper was announced on 9 December 2004 and he joined the company on 1 February 2005.
A description of the capabilities required for this appointment was agreed by the committee in consultation with the other directors.
Recruitment consultants, Egon Zehnder International, were engaged to assist the committee and a number of candidates were identified by them, and interviewed by the committee and by other directors.
During the year, the committee also reviewed the balance of experience on the board, and recommended to the board that a further non-executive director should be appointed, who was also a serving executive elsewhere.
Recruitment consultants, Ian Jones & Partners, assisted the committee in this process and a number of candidates were interviewed by the committee and by other directors.
As a result, John Coleman was appointed on 10 February 2005.
The chairman of the Nominations Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
T. E. P. Stevenson Chairman, Nominations Committee 4 March 2005 48
