Pg 40 There will be a further limited general pool of funds out of which Ty Gobaith Childrens Hospice opened in November 2004. donations will be made to legitimate and supportable causes Chronicle Newspapers Miles for Smiles continues to provide that fall outside the above two criteria.
There will, however, need holidays for disabled and underprivileged children.
The Liverpool in each case to be a demonstrable business commercial reason Echo has launched its Bully Buster anti-bullying helpline for why such support should be given.
parents and children in conjunction with the local authority and the Merseyside TUC.
Each of our regional newspaper companies will have a small budget out of which they will make direct cash donations The Evening Telegraph Snowball appeal, in conjunction with to charities working in the community in which the newspaper Mercia FM, has raised over 2 million and the paper continues is based.
Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail Limited will to support the Myton Hospice Appeal in Coventry.
The Evening similarly make a number of donations to appropriate charities Gazettes Tees Pride campaign focuses its attention on the based in Scotland.
regeneration of Middlesborough and continued the theme with its Save our Steel and Let the Boat Come In campaigns.
The National titles of the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and The People are most unlikely to make direct cash donations.
In addition, most of our local titles continue with their Local They will do so only where they are asked to make a payment Community Champion and Young Achievers awards, while the to charity in lieu of a fee for an interview or some form of support.
Daily Mirrors Pride of Britain Awards are now in their seventh year.
Any corporate donations requested from the National titles are likely to be redirected to the Group, as the Companys Risks and opportunities headquarters share the same ofce location as that of the Trinity Mirror is not a multinational nor is it engaged in heavy National titles.
It is not, therefore, exposed to some of the risks faced by those who operate in developing countries or at the sharp All Group donations need the prior agreement of the Secretary end of environmental exposure.
The greatest exposure for the and Group Legal Director.
Any local business donations require Group would, therefore, be a systems failure that led to a the prior agreement of the relevant Managing Director.
domestic failure of its environmental, health and safety or ethical policies.
It is unlikely that a failure in any of these three areas In addition to cash donations, the Company is active in making would be catastrophic.
donations in kind in the form of used computer equipment, furniture, books, etc.
Through its community involvement The Board believes that the Companys main exposure would programmes, the Company makes available members be one of reputational damage.
The procedure that the Company of its staff for volunteering and mentoring programmes.
employs to control and manage these risks is through a regular review of its standards and systems and through training of Community engagement relevant employees and managers.
Trinity Mirrors newspapers, particularly its regional and local titles, know that they are nothing if they are not of the community The Companys Standards of Business Conduct are embedded and for the community.
The sorts of activities that other companies within the culture of the Group.
More recently the Companys would separate out and brand Community Engagement are health and safety policies and systems have been put under simply part of the everyday activities of our titles.
It is a slightly review and have been consolidated and codified.
More attention hackneyed phrase but they are their communitys champions.
is now being paid than in the past to environmental matters.
It is, therefore, difficult to describe the work that we do in any way other than by setting out examples.
The Company believes that opportunities in these areas are, similarly, reputational.
We believe that there are advantages Through their media centres our titles in the North East helped to being seen as the employer of choice for those entering our more than 17,000 schoolchildren across the region.
This help industry, that decision having been made on an assessment, took the form of using our specially built Newspapers in Education amongst many other things, of our corporate social responsibility newsrooms as an exciting way of improving literacy and a basic programmes.
Those programmes will also be key in the retention introduction to media issues.
The facilities are also used to of staff.
We also believe that there are obvious commercial introduce so-called silver surfers to basic computer skills and to advantages from being seen as a socially responsible company.
We have found that our slightly older readers would prefer to have an introduction to these skills from a newspaper Comments to: with whom they have a relationship of trust rather than going to Paul Vickers local authority-funded colleges of further education.
Secretary and Group Legal Director Trinity Mirror plc The Birmingham Evening Mails Why My Child appeal has One Canada Square raised nearly 650,000 from readers and is well on the way to Canary Wharf achieving its target of 1 million in 2005.
The Welsh Daily Posts London E14 5AP campaign to build a hospice for children in North Wales raised over 2 million, and reached its successful conclusion when Pg 41 Investor Relations report Our aim is to provide information to shareholders, non-holders Key activities during 2004 and the financial market with clarity and openness on a regular In 2004 the focus of our IR programme was on institutional and on-going basis in order to assist in the investment investors and analysts.
The investor programme involved a total of 96 meetings with To that end we continually look at our own procedures to make institutional investors.
The majority of the meetings were improvements in line with current best practice.
During 2004 with existing shareholders, half of which held less than 3%.
we conducted a review of all investor communication and the result was the implementation of a number of changes.
Half of the investors who met with management on a one-onone basis were based in England and Wales.
Management also We appointed an Investor Relations IR Manager to take met with US, Scottish and German investors.
The 10 largest responsibility for day-to-day IR activity and to assist with the shareholders typically met with senior management twice planning of our investor communication strategy.
During 2004 we appointed joint brokers Cazenove and In 2004 three new sell-side analysts initiated coverage of Trinity Morgan Stanley to help improve our understanding and Mirror and at the end of the year a total of 10 sell-side analysts monitoring of market changes and sentiment.
The review covered the Group.
The sell-side analyst programme included also highlighted the need to refresh our corporate website one-on-one conference calls at trading updates, group and that work has now been completed.
presentations at results meetings as well as a number of ad-hoc one-on-one meetings.
We actively encourage engagement with our shareholders and value their feedback on all our communication channels.
During the second half of the year a series of informal meetings were held with analysts.
No new financial information was given but the aim was to deepen the relationship between the analysts and senior management.
A total of 50 sell-side analyst meetings were held in 2004 with an average of four meetings with each investment house.
Traded volumes 000s Pg 42 Share price Trinity Mirror share price and traded volumes January to December 2004 800 5,000 4,500 750 4,000 700 3,500 650 3,000 2,500 600 2,000 550 1,500 500 1,000 450 500 0 400 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Average weekly volumes Average weekly share prices Trinity Mirror vs. FTSE All Share Media & Entertainment January to December 2004 rebased to 100.
130 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Trinity Mirror Sector Key dates in 2005 Dividend policy 3 March Preliminary results 2004 Our policy is to increase dividends progressively while 1 April Annual report published maintaining dividend cover of at least 2x.
4 May Ex-dividend date 5 May Annual General Meeting Key contacts 6 May Final record date Sly Bailey, Chief Executive 10 June Payment of final dividend Vijay Vaghela, Group Finance Director 30 June Trading statement first half 2005 Paul Vickers, Secretary and Group Legal Director 28 July Interim results first half 2005 Nick Fullagar, Director of Corporate Communications 5 October Ex-dividend date Josena Tallqvist, Investor Relations Manager 7 October Interim record date 1 November Payment of interim dividend www.
com 15 December Trading statement second half 2005 Share price p Share price p Corporate governance Board of Directors 44 The Executive Committee 46 Corporate governance Remuneration report 48 52 Directors report Independent auditors report 60 62
