Pg 48 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Directors Corporate Governance.
This statement, together with the There are currently nine directors: Chairman, Sir Victor Blank: Directors Report and the Remuneration Report set out on Chief Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, pages 52 to 61, describes how the Company has applied Peter Birch: two other executive directors: and four other the relevant principles of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code.
The directors biographies are set out on page 45 and illustrate the directors breadth The Board believes that the Company complies with most of experience, which should ensure an effective Board of the Code.
Any exceptions are fully explained.
to lead and control the Group.
The Board The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups the Chief Executive has been set out in writing and approved operations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters by the Board.
reserved to itself, including the Groups strategic plans, acquisitions or disposals, capital expenditure, all nancing The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term matters, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups of three years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
Before a non-executive director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the Nominations Committee meets to consider The Board meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is shown whether his or her performance continues to be effective on page 51. and whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
The committee meets at least once a year to review the The Board also delegates specic responsibilities to performance of the Chairman.
Committees, each of which has clear written Terms of Reference, as described below.
The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are independent.
David Marlow, who is Chairman of the Audit In 2003 the Board appointed Leonard Hull International to conduct Committee, was first appointed as a director of the Company a formal evaluation of its performance.
Although Mr Marlow has served for more than nine did not believe that it was necessary to use external resources years as a director, the Board still considers him to be to review its performance during 2004 but chose to evaluate independent as he demonstrates that independence at every its own performance and that of its Committees through an Board meeting and meeting of the Audit Committee.
Mr Marlow extensive questionnaire sent to each director.
The questionnaires has, however, indicated that he will not stand for re-election were reviewed by the Chairman and Secretary and Group Legal when he retires at this years AGM.
Director, and a report of findings distributed to each director.
Sir Angus Grossart is non-executive Vice Chairman of the Royal Following a Corporate Governance review in 2003 it was agreed Bank of Scotland, which is one of the Companys commercial that all non-executive directors should serve as members of the bankers.
As Sir Angus has no executive powers in either company Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board and is not involved in the consideration of the commercial believes that an increasing amount of work is undertaken by terms of the relationship, the Company does not believe that these Committees and that a non-executive director can only this connection affects his independence.
properly full his or her responsibilities if they are present during committee meetings and are able to follow the detail of discussion Gary Hoffman will join the Board after these accounts have and debate held at those meetings.
Similarly the Chairman, been approved.
He is the CEO of Barclaycard and an Executive in addition to chairing the Nominations Committee, is a full Director of Barclays Plc.
Although the Company has connections member of the Remuneration Committee and attends meetings with Barclays, most of its relationships are in areas outside of of the Audit Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
Mr Hoffmans control and the Board does not believe that they will affect his independence.
Mr Hoffman will join each of the As a result of this policy some would say that the Company does Boards principal committees.
not comply with certain parts of the Combined Code in that directors who may not be regarded externally as independent Every director is subject to re-election by shareholders every serve on the Remuneration Committee.
After a full year of three years.
working with this structure the Board believes that the benets derived from the wider participation of non-executive directors An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors on the Board committees justifies this non-compliance and appointment and the appropriate training provided.
proposes to continue with this practice.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Pg 49 The Chairman has declared to the Company his other significant The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are commitments, which are the Chairmanship of GUS plc.
He is published on the Companys website.
also Chairman of the charity WellBeing, on the Council of Oxford University and serves on various industry and government Nomination Committee committees.
The Board believes that he devotes sufficient time The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the to the Company to properly and fully full his responsibilities.
non-executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the Audit Committee Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment The Audit Committee is chaired by David Marlow.
The Committee would normally expect to use Sir Angus Grossart, Penny Hughes and David Ross are members.
the services of professional external headhunters to help in the The Committee meets to review the Groups interim and annual search for and selection of candidates.
It followed this practice financial statements before their submission to the Board, in the case of David Ross and Gary Hoffman.
to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, accounting policies and procedures and The Committee has formal written terms of reference which financial reporting, and otherwise as necessary.
The Group are published on the Companys website.
has an internal audit function to enhance the rolling programme of review and improvement to the Groups internal controls.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external Group Finance Director and Secretary and Group Legal Director auditors and the internal auditors, as appropriate, attend meetings and meets as necessary to deal with administrative matters of the Committee.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are Relations with shareholders published on the Companys website.
The Company encourages two-way communication with During the year the Committee, with the help of the Head of both its institutional and private investors and responds quickly Internal Audit, devised a process under which it could review to all queries received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and the effectiveness of the audit process.
A very extensive and institutional shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting questionnaire was sent to the Audit Committee, other Board all directors, including Committee Chairmen, are available for members and senior operational and finance managers across questions.
Twice a year the Director of Corporate Communications, the Group.
The results were analysed by the Head of Internal who also runs the Companys investor relations programme, Audit and a full report was submitted for review by the Audit produces a formal report for the Board giving details of comment Committee.
There were no adverse findings.
The report as and feedback received from analysts and institutional investors.
a whole, however, was discussed with the external auditor.
He is present during the Board discussion of this report.
The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation In 2004 the Chairman wrote to the 26 largest institutional on a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply investors in the Company making it clear that he is available non-audit services.
to see them to discuss any issues that they may wish to raise.
Remuneration Committee Accountability and audit The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Penny Hughes.
Operating and financial review Sir Victor Blank, Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart, David Marlow Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial and David Ross are also members.
The Committee meets as position in the Chief Executives statement page 10, and required during the year to review the Companys general policy the Operating and Financial Review page 16, together with the on executive remuneration, the application of the policy to the Directors Report page 60, the Board seeks to present a remuneration and benets of the executive directors and to balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial for senior management.
statements is described on page 60.
The Remuneration Report set out on pages 52 to 59 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policies and procedures for executive remuneration.
The Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their own remuneration.
Pg 50 Internal control Functional reporting a number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, internal audit and risk management, Internal financial control litigation, IT strategy and development, environmental issues The directors are responsible for the Groups established system and insurance, are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions of internal financial control.
No system of internal financial control reports to the Board on a regular basis, through the Chief can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement Executive, Group Finance Director or Secretary and Group or loss.
Such a system is designed to provide the directors with Legal Director, as appropriate.
The treasury function operates reasonable assurance that problems are identied on a timely within the terms of clearly dened policy statements.
The basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key procedures that have policy statements exist to ensure that the Group is not been established and designed to provide effective internal exposed to any unnecessary risk and that where appropriate financial control are: there is hedging against foreign currency and interest rate risks.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from management, Management and organisational structure the existing the internal audit department and the external auditors to organisational structure is considered appropriate provide reasonable assurance that control procedures are to the size of the Group.
This clearly identies levels in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have of delegated responsibility to operational management.
been established for instituting appropriate action to correct The performance of senior management is regularly weaknesses identied from the above reports.
evaluated and individual employees responsibilities are clearly dened and communicated.
Risk management An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management the significant risks faced by the Group has remained in place reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed annual throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is subject to by the executive management and are ultimately summarised regular review by the Board directly and via the Audit Committee.
and submitted to the Board for approval.
Weekly revenue and This accords with the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control profit returns are received from all operating units followed by for directors.
monthly management accounts, which are prepared promptly and reported against the approved budget.
Consolidated Although the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is monthly management accounts are prepared, including detailed recognised, the positive contribution made by senior management profit analysis with comparisons to budget, latest forecasts, to the establishment and ongoing development of risk prior year and consensus market opinion, and treasury report management within the Group is acknowledged.
including comparison to the Groups financial covenants, providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and other In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal information to the Board.
Revised profit and cashow control, the Board has taken into consideration a number forecasts for the current year are prepared and submitted of key elements which include: financial and investment controls: to the Board at quarterly intervals during the year.
management reporting: and the various review, steering, policy and Board committees.
Investment appraisal the Group has a clearly dened framework for capital expenditure which is controlled centrally.
The following illustrate how the risk management process and Appropriate authorisation levels and limits beyond which such the system of internal control operated during the 53-week expenditure requires the prior approval of the Capex Committee period ended 2 January 2005: consisting of the three executive directors and the Director of Group IT or, in certain circumstances, the Board, are Group internal audit The Head of Internal Audit has reviewed clearly set.
There is a prescribed format for capital expenditure the internal audit role and risk management processes during applications which places a high emphasis on the overall 2004, following Audit Committee approval of a new Internal Group strategy or logic for the expenditure, and demands Audit charter and strategy.
The skills and experience of the a comprehensive and sound financial representation of the team have been signicantly upgraded and recruitment business case being put forward.
All significant corporate is underway to complete the strengthening of the function.
acquisitions or investments are controlled by the Board or a Audit work is risk-based and has a focus on those areas Board sub-committee and are subject to detailed investment which are critical to the achievement of business objectives.
appraisal and performance of due diligence procedures prior to approval by the Board.
Pg 51 Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee includes Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk the review, update and approval of the annual internal audit management further into the operations of the business and to plan: provision of direction to the internal audit function, deal with areas of improvement which come to managements external auditors and management in the review of internal and the Boards attention.
The Groups systems of internal controls: alerting the Board to any emerging issues: and control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk consideration of the draft papers prepared for the annual of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures reasonable and not absolute assurance against material adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to the misstatement or loss.
Further relevant information is included in the Corporate Risk Management Group The Risk Management Group Responsibility Review, published on pages 34 to 40. is formed of the Executive Committee together with invited senior executives.
The Secretary and Group Legal Director Corporate governance compliance statement has co-ordinated the risk management activities of the The Company has complied throughout the financial year with Committee, working closely with members of the Internal the provisions set out in the July 2003 FRC Combined Code, with Audit team.
the exception of the constitution of the Remuneration Committee.
The objectives of the risk framework have been formally Going concern basis agreed and the action plans for all significant risks have been reviewed.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is Divisional and Group functional key risks To enable consistent a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and management to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of significant Group risks, the Executive Committee owner For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going of each key risk and the relevant senior managers have concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
documented the plans, actions and initiatives which have taken place or are underway.
Year end compliance reporting A formal process exists for year-end risk management compliance reporting, requiring senior operating company, divisional and Group executive management to confirm their responsibilities for risk management and internal control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and every Board member.
Table of attendance Audit Remuneration 2 Main Board AGM Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 9142 Sly Bailey 9142 Peter Birch 9142 Sir Victor Blank 8122 Sir Angus Grossart 7131 Penny Hughes 6132 David Marlow 9142 1 Stephen Parker 41 1 David Ross 6121 Vijay Vaghela 914 Paul Vickers 914 1 David Ross was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2004 and Stephen Parker resigned from the Board on 26 July 2004.
2 Much of the work of the Remuneration Committee was undertaken outside of formal Committee meetings.
Decisions were taken by means of brieng notes and written resolutions.
The Chairman, Penny Hughes, attended a large number of working group and review meetings.
