Corporate governance The Combined Code Directors The board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is scheduled to meet ten times each year with additional meetings Throughout the year to 31 March 2004, the company has complied with the called if required.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, provisions set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code Principles of Good which ensures that it takes all major strategy, policy and investment decisions Governance and Code of Best Practice issued by the Financial Services affecting the group.
In addition, it is responsible for business planning and risk Authority.
A revised Combined Code was published in July 2003 which will be management and for the development of group policies including such areas applicable to all listed companies with reporting periods commencing on or as health and safety, directors and senior managers remuneration and for after 1 November 2003.
The board recognises that the revised Code is seen social, environmental and ethical issues.
Attendance by individual directors at as best practice and this report, together with the remuneration report on meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year ended 31 March pages 26 to 33, gives details of how the principles in the existing Code and 2004 is shown in the table below and full biographical details of the directors the revised Code have been applied within the company.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the board and its committees Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual John Roberts 12 12 4 2 Simon Batey1211 Charlie Cornish 33 Gordon Waters 12 12 Sir Richard Evans 12 12 658744 Norman Broadhurst 12 9668744 Sir Peter Middleton 12 10 648743 Jane Newell 12 10 638742 Andrew Pinder128638741 John Seed 12 10 658844 The chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without Directors and ofcers insurance the executive directors present.
Led by the senior independent director, the The company maintains an appropriate level of directors and ofcers non-executive directors meet without the chairman present at least annually insurance in respect of legal action against the directors.
to appraise the chairmans performance.
Directors have a right to ensure Chairman and chief executive that any concerns they have, which cannot be resolved about the running Separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of chairman of the company or a proposed action, are recorded in the board minutes.
The board has agreed clearly dened responsibilities In addition, upon resignation a non-executive director shall be asked to for the roles and has adopted a set of guiding principles to govern the provide a written statement addressed to the chairman, for circulation to relationship between them.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the the board, if they have any such concerns.
The chief executive is responsible for running the groups business and for implementing board strategy and policy.
Delegating and working through committees The groups governance structure ensures that all decisions are made Board balance and independence by the most appropriate people in such a way that the decision-making The board aims to maintain a balance of executive and non-executive process itself does not unnecessarily delay progress.
The board has formally directors and presently comprises the chairman, four executive directors and delegated specic responsibilities to board committees, including the audit five non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The see page 24, remuneration see page 26, nomination see Appointments directors have a wide and diverse range of business experience and expertise.
to the board on page 23, approvals and treasury committees.
All board The revised Code does not regard the chairman as being independent committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
in view of his unique role in corporate governance although, were he not The approvals committee considers and approves expenditure and chairman, Sir Richard Evans would satisfy the independence criteria laid investment proposals within limits delegated by the board.
Its members down by the Code.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the are the executive directors, the group strategic planning director and the board has determined that all of the remaining five non-executive directors company secretary.
are independent and free from any business or other relationship which could compromise their independent judgement.
The treasury committee considers and approves borrowing, leasing, bonding and other banking facilities within limits set by the board.
Its members are In particular, the board has determined that Sir Peter Middleton remains the chairman, the chief executive, the group finance director and one of independent, notwithstanding that he has served on the board for more than the other executive directors together with, for more significant or complex nine years, because of his breadth of experience, financial independence transactions, one other non-executive director.
Norman Broadhursts daughter is a partner based in Deloitte & Touche LLPs Birmingham ofce.
It has been agreed that The directors of subsidiary companies are responsible at law for those she will not be involved with the United Utilities account in any way.
They are tasked with the delivery of the targets set within &Touche LLP services United Utilities account from its Manchester and the budgets approved by the group board and for the implementation of London ofces.
group strategy and policy across their businesses.
United Utilities Water PLC, for example, is a sizeable business in its own right and its board Senior independent director includes two independent non-executive directors Phillida Entwistle and Sir Peter Middleton has been appointed as senior independent director.
The senior independent director would be available to shareholders if they 22 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to The board has adopted policies governing the rights of directors to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The terms of reference of obtain independent professional advice.
The board has adopted a protocol the senior independent director state that his primary duty is to ensure that under which directors have access, through the company secretary, to the views of each non-executive director are given due consideration.
Other independent professional advice at the companys expense where they duties of the post include authority to call a meeting of the non-executive judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
directors and to conduct periodic performance appraisals of the chairman.
Performance evaluation Appointments to the board and the nomination committee The board has agreed a self-evaluation process for the performance The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments by evaluation of the board which will be carried out during the current financial making recommendations to the board about lling board vacancies and year and will be reported upon in next years annual report.
The board has appointing additional persons to the board.
The committee also considers determined that the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent and makes recommendations to the board on its composition, balance and director, will undertake a performance evaluation of the chairman, taking membership and on the re-appointment by shareholders of any director into account the views of executive directors.
under the retirement by rotation provisions in the companys articles of Re-appointment of directors association.
It met four times in the year to 31 March 2004.
The board initially appoints all new directors, having first considered The committees members are the non-executive directors, including the recommendations made to it by the nomination committee.
Following such chairman, together with the chief executive.
Although the chairman is also appointment, the director is required to retire and seek re-appointment at chairman of the committee, he will not chair the committee when it deals the next annual general meeting.
There is a process of rotation, which with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The nomination ensures that approximately one third of all directors are required to retire and committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on seek re-appointment at each annual general meeting and that no director the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the serves for more than three years without being proposed for re-appointment roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
at an annual general meeting.
Biographical details of directors being submitted for appointment or re-appointment are set out in the notes During the year, the committee prepared a description of the roles and accompanying the relevant notice of meeting.
capabilities required for the appointment of a Managing Director, Service Delivery, engaged the services of Spencer Stuart, an independent consultancy Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms subject to rm, and made recommendations as part of the final selection process.
re-appointment under the companys articles of association and subject to Companies Acts provisions relating to the removal of a director.
Following the The nomination committees terms of reference are available to shareholders 2004 annual general meeting, the board intends to explain to shareholders on request and are also available on the companys web site at in the papers accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director www.
why they believe an individual should be appointed.
The chairman will confirm Policy on external appointments to shareholders when proposing re-appointment that, following formal The company recognises that its executive directors may be invited to performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective become non-executive directors of companies outside the group and and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Any term beyond six years for exposure to such non-executive duties can broaden experience and a non-executive director will be subject to particularly rigorous review and knowledge, which will be to the benefit of the company.
Subject to board will take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
approval which will not be given if the proposed appointment is with a Any non-executive director serving longer than nine years will be subject competing company, would otherwise lead to a conict of interest or could to annual re-appointment.
A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming have a detrimental effect on a directors performance, the boards policy annual general meeting to alter the articles of association of the company is that a full time executive director can accept no more than one nonto give effect to this new Code provision.
executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company and may retain the fees.
John Roberts is a non-executive director Accountability and audit of Volex Group plc, for which he earned and retained a fee of 26,000 during Statement of directors responsibilities for the financial statements the year to 31 March 2004.
Simon Batey was appointed a non-executive The directors are responsible for preparing, in accordance with the director of Arriva plc on 1 October 2003 and earned and retained a fee of Companies Act 1985, financial statements for each financial year which 15,000 for the period from his appointment to 31 March 2004. give a true and fair view of the companys and the groups state of affairs Information and professional development as at the end of the financial year, and of the profit or loss and cash ows The quality of the contribution that directors, particularly non-executives, for the financial year.
can make is directly dependent on the quality of the information they receive.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Accordingly, all directors receive comprehensive information on a regular group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied basis.
Board papers are normally distributed a week in advance of the and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
relevant meeting to allow sufficient time for directors to be fully briefed.
The All applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any papers are sufciently detailed to enable the directors to obtain a thorough departure and explanation described in the notes to the accounts.
grasp of the management and financial performance of the company and the operating businesses.
Minutes of committee meetings are circulated to The directors have a legal responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps all board members.
accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the companys and the groups financial position and which enable them The board has established a governance framework which encourages all to ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. directors to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, The directors also have a general legal responsibility for taking such steps performance, resources, including key appointments and standards of as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the companys and the groups conduct.
New directors receive appropriate induction training on joining the assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
As part of this, the company will offer to major shareholders the auditors statement about its reporting responsibilities is set out on page 35. opportunity to meet a new non-executive director.
Financial reporting and going concern All directors have access to the advice and services of the company In presenting the annual and interim financial statements and similar secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board significant publications, the directors aim to present a balanced and procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the understandable assessment of the groups position and prospects.
company secretary are matters for the board as a whole.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23 Corporate governance continued The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these an annual health and safety performance review carried out by our infinancial statements.
This is based upon a review of the groups budget for house safety professionals in addition to the normal health and safety risk 2004 05, the five-year business plan and investment programme, together assessment and management processes carried out within each of the with the cash and committed borrowing facilities available to the group.
operating businesses: The board also took into account potential contingent liabilities and other centralised treasury operations operating within dened limits and risk factors as interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern and Financial subject to regular reporting requirements and internal audit reviews: and Reporting for Directors of Listed Companies registered in the United Kingdom, published in November 1994. established procedures, set out in a group internal control manual, for planning, approving and monitoring major capital expenditure, major projects Internal control system evaluating and managing risk and the development of new business which includes short and long-term The board is responsible for the groups internal control framework and budgets, risk evaluation, detailed appraisal and review procedures, dened for reviewing its effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review and up authority levels and post-investment performance reviews.
to the date of this report, the board has operated procedures meeting the The audit committee and the auditor requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal control as set out The audit committees members are Norman Broadhurst Chairman, in the September 1999 guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors Sir Richard Evans to 30 March 2004, Sir Peter Middleton, Jane Newell, on the Combined Code produced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Andrew Pinder and John Seed.
The board is satisfied that Norman in England and Wales.
Each year the board reviews all controls, including Broadhurst has recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management met six times in the year to 31 March 2004. procedures.
The internal control system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups business objectives and The committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material to the board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external misstatement or loss.
auditor which the board then puts to shareholders for their approval in general meeting.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit The key features of the internal control system are: and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the a control environment with clearly dened organisation structures operating auditor.
The committee has established policies and procedures to prewithin a framework of policies and procedures covering every aspect of approve the provision of any audit or non-audit services and keeps the the business: nature and extent of non-audit services under review.
In the year under review, the fees paid or payable to the auditor were as follows: comprehensive business planning, risk assessment and financial reporting procedures including the annual preparation of detailed operational Fees to Deloitte & Touche LLP: budgets for the year ahead and projections for subsequent years: 2004 2003 Item 000 000 a monthly board review of financial and non-financial key performance indicators to assess progress towards objectives: Audit fees 563.1 490.0 monthly meetings prior to each board meeting of the executive leadership Audit related fees 1 882.0 168.0 team, a forum in which the executive directors, the managing directors of Tax fees 2 335.0 189.0 the groups businesses, the group functional directors and the company Other fees 3 149.0 secretary exchange information and discuss strategic and operational issues which are of group-wide importance: Total 1,780.1 996.0 regular monitoring of risks and control systems throughout the Notes: year by the operating businesses, supported by the use of risks 1 Audit related fees are fees billed for work on regulatory returns and assurance work reasonably related to the statutory audit, including due diligence and assurance and issues databases: work, work associated with raising debt and equity finance and securities ling work.
a self-certication process, subject to internal audit, whereby the operating In 2004, these fees included assurance work in support of the rights issue.
businesses are required to confirm that the system of internal control is 2 Tax fees are fees incurred for tax compliance, tax advice and related tax work.
operating effectively: 3 Other fees incurred relate to project and financial modelling work.
an internal audit function to provide independent scrutiny of internal control 4 In 2003, 265,000 of tax and other fees were paid to Deloitte & Touche under engagements commenced prior to their appointment as auditor which have systems and risk management procedures: subsequently been completed.
a bi-monthly risk management forum chaired by the group finance director, 5 In addition to the above, fees relating to joint ventures of the group were paid and comprising the company secretary, the group internal audit manager, to Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2004 totalling 66,800 2003 26,000. the group health and safety manager and senior representatives from each All non-statutory audit or non-statutory tax compliance services provided of the operating businesses, to scrutinise key risks in depth: by the auditor must be reported to the audit committee and prior approval a quarterly sustainable development panel chaired by the chief executive, is required from the senior independent director for any such projects.
In and comprising the managing directors of United Utilities Service Delivery granting such approval, he is required to consider the cumulative proportion and United Utilities Contract Solutions, the head of environment and the of fees paid for such work compared with the statutory audit fees.
community and three external professional specialists, Walter Menzies, The audit committee also reviews the half-year and annual financial Clive Jeanes and Dr Mark Everard.
The role of the panel is to advise on statements before submission to the board, reviews periodically the scope, environmental policy and, in particular, to identify risks to the environment, remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the effectiveness of recommend targets and monitor performance against those targets: the groups internal control systems.
It also reviews arrangements by which an annual risk assessment exercise involving self-assessment by staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible management of all business risks in terms of impact, likelihood and control improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The terms strength and an objective challenge of that assessment by the internal of reference of the audit committee are available to shareholders on request audit team: and are also available on the companys web site at www.
24 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders There is a programme of investor meetings and presentations which take place throughout the year, both in the UK and overseas.
During the year, the board met, or offered to meet, with 110 different funds, representing 44 per cent of the companys issued share capital.
This, together with regular announcements of significant events affecting the group and frequent updates on current trading, emphasises our commitment to keep our equity and debt investors informed of developments affecting the group.
The board regards this programme as important to improve investors awareness of the business and for the board to gain an understanding of investors priorities.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would attend them if requested by major shareholders.
The board has taken steps to ensure that members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their company through an annual survey of shareholder opinion produced for the company by Makinson Cowell.
Constructive use of the annual general meeting The board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote at the annual general meeting.
The notice calling the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Voting on all resolutions takes place by means of a poll which ensures that all shareholders votes are taken into account, whether lodged in person at the meeting, or by proxy.
The poll vote is scrutinised by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Presentations are made on the progress and performance of the business prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate through a question and answer session and individual directors or, where appropriate, the chairman of the relevant committee, respond to those questions directly.
Normally, the chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees will be available at the annual general meeting to answer questions relevant to the work of those committees.
Shareholders have the opportunity to talk informally to the directors before and after the formal proceedings.
Publications and the web The interim report, the annual report, the stakeholder report and summary financial statement remain the primary means the board has of communicating during the year with all of the companys shareholders.
However, the board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
A library of information about the company is available 24 hours-a-day, world-wide at www.
Financial news releases are made available on the site contemporaneously with release through other news channels and anyone with an email address can register free of charge to receive an email alert upon the posting of each new release.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25
