Vedanta Resources plc 29 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Philosophy The Company and its quoted subsidiaries believe in conducting their affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in their dealings with all their constituents.
The Board is committed to following good corporate governance practices and regularly reviews its systems and procedures to achieve higher standards in corporate governance.
Compliance Statement The Company issued a statement on compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice issued by the Financial Services Authority the Previous Code at the time of its Listing in December 2003.
As part of that disclosure it also reported on its intended compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Revised Code which largely incorporates the recommendations of the Higgs Report and will apply to the Company in respect of the period commencing on 1 April 2004.
This report sets out the Companys position in relation to compliance with the Previous Code and indicates the steps that have been taken, or which it is intended be taken during 2004 to achieve compliance with the Revised Code.
During the period prior to Listing, the Group underwent an intensive period of preparation in order to become compliant with the provisions of the Previous Code.
Consequently, with the exception of the appointment of a Senior Independent Director which has since been made, during the period from the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 10 December 2003 to 31 March 2004, the Board considers that the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the Previous Code.
Directors Board of Directors The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives and overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
The Board has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it and has instructed its Businesses that decisions on these matters may not be taken without the approval of the Board.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director, supported by the Executive Committee, which consists of the senior executives who head up the Groups principal operations and functions in India, have overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group.
The biographies of the Directors and members of the Executive Committee appear on pages 27 and 28.
The Board consists of a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
Since Listing two new Non-executive Directors have been appointed and Mr Chidambaram, a Non-executive Director appointed prior to Listing, has resigned following his appointment as Finance Minister in the new Government of India.
Procedures have been established to allow the Directors to obtain independent professional advice in pursuance of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Prior to Listing, the Board established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference of these committees comply with the provisions of the Previous Code, but are being reviewed by the applicable committee to ensure that they reflect the recommendations of the Revised Code where appropriate.
The revised terms of reference will be submitted to the Board for approval in the second half of 2004.
After their approval by the Board, the terms of reference of the committees of the Board will be available on the Companys website.
The Company has recently established a Health, Safety and Environment Committee HSE Committee which met for the first time in June 2004.
It is now chaired by Mr Rodier and includes the Chief Operating Officer, Mr Kaura.
External HSE specialists will be appointed to the HSE Committee in due course.
The Board has requested that the HSE Committee prepare terms of reference for itself for the Board to approve by 31 December 2004.
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive Separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Mr Gilbertson was appointed Chairman of the Company on 4 December 2003 and Mr Agarwal became the Chief Executive of the Company on 27 November 2003.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board, and sets the agenda and timing of meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
The Chairman also liaises with the Chief Executive on the Groups international development outside India.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the business and for implementing Board strategy and policy, with particular focus on delivery of the Groups major expansion projects in India within the approved budget and timescale.
In compliance with the requirements of the Previous Code and the Revised Code, Mr Fowle has been appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect from 14 June 2004.
As such, his primary duty is to ensure that the views of each Non-executive Director are given due consideration in Board discussions.
Other responsibilities of the post include the authority to call a meeting of the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman and to conduct periodic performance appraisals of the Chairman.
Vedanta Resources plc 30 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Balance At the time of Listing, the Board consisted of a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors, thus fulfiling the recommendations of the Previous Code that at least one third of the Board should be Non-executive Directors, the majority of whom should be independent of management and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their independent judgement.
Prior to Listing, the Board recruited Non-executive Directors with a breadth of skills and experience to support the Executive Directors in implementing the Groups strategy of developing and consolidating its position both in the Indian market and further afield.
In particular, the Board sought specialist knowledge on the Indian economy and international expertise in mining and the political environment.
The Board has continued this approach by the appointments of Mr Naresh Chandra and Mr Jean-Pierre Rodier both of whom bring considerable international experience to the Board, whilst also strengthening its independence.
The Board considers that all of the Nonexecutive Directors are independent of the Company as defined by the Revised Code.
In addition to his appointment as a Non-executive Director, Mr Rodier has been appointed to the Audit Committee to replace Mr Gilbertson who has subsequently stepped down from that Committee.
Furthermore, Messrs Rodier, Fowle and Chandra have been appointed to the Nominations Committee to ensure that the majority of the members of this Committee are independent of the Company.
Mr Chandra has also joined the Remuneration Committee.
As a result of these appointments, the Company complies with the Revised Code in relation to the constitution of the Board and the committees of the Board.
On 5 December 2003, Volcan Investments Limited and the Company entered into an agreement the Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement was to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal Family and their associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee will at all times comprise a majority of Directors who are independent of Volcan and the Agarwal Family and the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times consist only of Nonexecutive Directors.
Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as Director such number of persons as is one less than the number of Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal Family and their associates.
Volcan has not exercised that right.
Although this method of appointment, if implemented, would not comply with the requirements of the Revised Code, the Relationship Agreement specifies that it is intended that the composition of the Board and committees of the Board should comply with the Revised Code.
The Company has issued a code relating to dealing in its shares, which is based on, and is no less exacting than, the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The code has been applied to the Directors and relevant employees of the Group.
Supply of Information The Board has met five times since Listing, with the meeting at the end of February 2004 being held at the offices of HZL in India.
The Board is scheduled to meet seven times a year on average, with additional meetings being called if required.
Given that the majority of the Groups activities are undertaken in India, the Board plans to hold two meetings a year in India and the remainder in the UK.
In the period since Listing, the Board has approved policies and procedures to ensure that the Directors receive information at least four working days prior to a meeting of the Board to allow sufficient time for Directors to be fully briefed.
The Board has also approved an agreed format for the content of papers prepared for the Board, to ensure the Directors receive relevant but sufficiently detailed information to enable them to obtain a thorough understanding of the matters to be discussed by the Board.
Since Listing, the Board has also approved policies and procedures relating to financial reporting, capital expenditure, treasury and investor relations such that the Board receives regular reports on these matters from the Executive Committee.
All of the Directors have access to management, in particular to the Company Secretary, and to such information as they may require to fulfil their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring the Directors receive timely and relevant information on matters arising between meetings of the Board.
Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries have management committees appointed by the board of directors of the relevant company, which meet on a monthly basis.
At least one member from each of these management committees is also a member of the Executive Committee to ensure that the Executive Committee and the Board are properly informed about the Groups performance.
Appointments to the Board, Training and Evaluation The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the size and composition of the Board generally and, in particular, the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the membership of committees of the Board.
Under its terms of reference, the Nominations Committee will recommend the appointment or re-appointment of Directors to the Board.
Vedanta Resources plc 31 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Through the process of appointing the two new Non-executive Directors since Listing, the Nominations Committee has established a precedent process for Board appointments which it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent.
This process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Non-executive Directors, and assessing which of the potential candidates identified on an agreed shortlist would most benefit the balance of the Board.
The Nominations Committee met the two recently appointed Non-executive Directors prior to their appointments and it was unanimous in its recommendations to the Board concerning their appointments.
The Executive Directors service agreements and terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
When the Directors attend Board meetings in India, a visit to a major operation of the Group is also arranged which provides them with the opportunity to view the Groups assets and to meet with employees.
During the Board visit in February 2004, the Directors also visited the BALCO operation at Korba in order to review the expansion of the aluminium smelter and to meet employees responsible for that project.
The Board is currently assessing the most appropriate procedures for providing formal induction and training for the two new Non-executive Directors that will take into account their existing qualifications and experience.
These procedures will include, as a minimum, visits to the Groups significant operations and meetings with senior members of management and the Companys brokers and auditors.
The Company is also arranging a suitable training programme for the Non-executive Directors which will cover the legal and regulatory aspects of being a director of a UK listed company.
The Board will agree its approach to performance evaluation and succession planning for Directors during the second half of 2004.
Re-appointment The Companys articles of association require Directors appointed by the Board during the year to offer themselves for re-appointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
Consequently, Messrs Chandra and Rodier, having been appointed Directors since Listing, will offer themselves for election at the AGM of the Company due to be held on 29 July 2004 at the City Conference Centre, 80 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ at 12 noon.
Biographical information about the Directors is set out on page 27.
Mr Gilbertsons initial appointment as Chairman of the Company will expire at the AGM.
There is also a process of rotation which ensures that no Director holds office for more then three years without being re-appointed.
Accordingly, at least one-third of all Directors are required to retire and seek re-appointment at each subsequent AGM.
Accordingly, Mr Agarwal and Sir David Gore-Booth will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-appointment.
No Director will serve for more than three years without being proposed for re-appointment at an AGM Remuneration The Remuneration Report, providing a statement on the Companys policy on Directors and senior managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is set out on pages 34 to 40.
Aresolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Remuneration Report sets out the status of the Companys compliance with the requirements of both the Previous Code and the Revised Code with regard to remuneration matters.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting and Going Concern In presenting the annual and interim financial information and similar significant publications, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review set out on pages 4 to 14, and in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditors are set out on pages 45 and 46.
The Board has adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This expectation is based on the most recently approved funding plan which reflected the 2004-05 budget and forecasts beyond 31 March 2005, the use of the net proceeds of US$825 million raised at the time of Listing, and the delivery of the US$2 billion capital expansion programme.
The funding plan also reflected the committed borrowing facilities available to the Group.
The Board also took into account potential contingent liabilities and other risk factors as interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern and Financial Reporting for Directors of Listed Companies registered in the United Kingdom, published in November 1994.
Vedanta Resources plc 32 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups internal control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
At the time of the Listing, the Board received reports on key areas of risk within the Group, both from management and the Companys professional advisers who assisted with the Listing.
These risks were summarised in the Listing Particulars dated 5 December 2003.
That review embraced the requirements of the Previous Code relating to internal control as set out in Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Guidance.
Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries have in place procedures to ensure that sufficient internal control is maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting of the management committee and a quarterly meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
These committees are appointed by the board of directors of the relevant company.
The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the Management Assurance department and is an important element of the overall process by which the Board obtains the assurance it requires that risks are being properly identified, managed and controlled.
It also provides assurance on the effectiveness of relevant internal controls.
The scope of work, authority and resources of the Management Assurance department are periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee and its work is supported by the services of leading international accountancy firms, other than the Groups external auditors.
Audit plans have been approved by the Audit Committee and significant findings of internal audit are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resources within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the Groups size.
The Company is currently undertaking a formal risk management process which involves a formal comprehensive review to identify and prioritise risks throughout the Group.
Existing control strategies are also being reviewed for each of the identified and prioritised risks.
The principal aim of the system of internal controls is the management of risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives.
The internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Since Listing, the Directors have continued to review the system of internal control and are satisfied that up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, managing and evaluating risks which meets the Turnbull Guidance.
Relations with Shareholders The Board recognises that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The interim and annual reports remain the primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders.
At the time of the Listing, the Company launched a website www.
com on which press releases, financial reports and other information are posted.
The Company recognises the importance of electronic communication and is currently redesigning the website to ensure a greater range of information is made available to shareholders.
The Company recently appointed a Head of Investor Relations, Mr John Smelt, to facilitate effective communications between the Board and the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The Board is briefed on the Companys relationship with its institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
A series of roadshow presentations were made to analysts and major shareholders prior to, and after, Listing.
The principal objectives behind these presentations were to illustrate the strength of the existing assets within the Group and to explain the core strategy underpinning the Listing.
An analysts trip was organised in April 2004 which involved visits to some of the Groups key operations in India and meetings with senior members of management.
The Company will announce its results on a quarterly basis and analysts presentations will be made following the release of the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the Senior Independent Director are available to discuss issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Contact with the Chairman and or the Senior Independent Director may be made directly or through the Head of Investor Relations.
Vedanta Resources plc 33 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report continued Shareholders are also provided with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the chairmen of the various committees, and to present their views at the forthcoming AGM.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each substantially separate issue put before the meeting.
A presentation will be given on the performance of the Group prior to the formal business of that meeting.
Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Fowle, whose financial experience is described in the biographical details set out on page 27.
Its other members are Mr Rodier and Sir David Gore-Booth.
Mr Rodier replaced Mr Gilbertson as a member of the Audit Committee on 14 June 2004.
The Audit Committee, which is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, has met three times since Listing.
Provision is made for representatives from both the internal and external auditors to attend meetings of the Audit Committee, and to discuss issues with Audit Committee members without any executive management present.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for the review of the Groups interim and annual reports, prior to their submission to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee also reviews the Groups internal and external audit activities and monitors compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements for financial reporting.
The Audit Committee also receives regular assurance reports from internal and external audit on the operational effectiveness of matters related to risk management and internal control, and reviews the timeliness and the effectiveness of corrective action taken by management.
Audit committees exist in each of the Groups principal subsidiaries which meet on a quarterly basis and comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors as required by Indian corporate governance requirements.
The external and internal auditors attend these audit committees.
The Groups Audit Committee is currently establishing procedures to ensure that issues considered by the audit committees of the Groups quoted subsidiary companies in India are escalated to the Groups Audit Committee on a timely and relevant basis.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr Chidambaram until his resignation as a Director on 22 May 2004.
Since that date the Remuneration Committee has been chaired by Sir David Gore-Booth and its other members are Messrs Chandra and Fowle.
Mr Chandra was appointed to the Committee on 14 June 2004.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Head of Human Resources attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
The Remuneration Committee has met three times since Listing.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers and for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 40.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Gilbertson and its other members are Messrs Agarwal, Chandra, Fowle and Rodier.
Mr Chidambaram was a member of the Nominations Committee until his resignation as a Director on 22 May 2004, and Messrs Chandra, Fowle and Rodier were appointed to the Committee on 14 June 2004.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and making recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
It has met once since Listing to consider the shortlist and appointment of new Non-executive Directors.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee The Company has recently established a Health, Safety and Environment Committee HSE Committee.
The HSE Committee is chaired by Mr Rodier and the Chief Operating Officer, Mr Kaura, is also a member.
The Company is currently seeking two external specialists to sit on the HSE Committee who will bring valuable technical expertise to this Committee.
HSE representatives from each of the Groups principal subsidiaries attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the HSE Committee chairman.
The HSE Committee will meet not less than four times a year and have responsibility for formulating and recommending to the Board the Groups policy for HSE issues as they affect the Groups operations.
The HSE Committee will focus particularly on compliance with national and international standards and legislation to ensure that an effective system of HSE standards, procedures and practices is in place at each of the Groups operations.
The HSE Committee also has responsibility for investigating any incidents or accidents that might occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
The ultimate responsibility for establishing HSE policy will remain with the Board.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises such Executive Directors and senior management of the Group as the Chief Executive recommends and the Board approves.
The Committee meets on a monthly basis and is chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal.
Its other members are Messrs Sydney-Smith, Navin Agarwal, Jain, Kaura and Palani Kumar.
The respective roles of the members of the Executive Committee are described in the biographical details set out on pages 27 and 28.
