Corporate Governance Code principles into at otation in 1997.
These include an obligation for the Introduction DIeteren appointed Directors to exercise their voting rights This report describes how the corporate governance principles so as to maintain the independence of the Board as required set out in the Combined Code are applied by the Company.
The by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring that all Directors take role of the Board is collectively to provide clear and effective decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The leadership of the Company by setting strategic objectives and other non-executive Directors comprise Kevin M Sheehan, a providing the highest values and standards for the conduct senior executive of Cendant Corporation, which licences the of the Companys business.
The Board is also responsible for Avis and Budget trademarks and operating systems to the Avis ensuring that sufficient resources are available to achieve the Group, and a former executive Director of the Company, Gilbert Companys objectives, for ongoing review of management van Marcke fide Lummen.
Since 1998 the Board has adopted performance and for ensuring that a framework of prudent a policy that, notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles and effective controls is in place to enable risks to be properly of Association, all Directors should stand for re-election at assessed and managed.
the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
Board of Directors The Company considers that the non-executive component of The Directors of the Company during the period 1 January 2004 the Board, which includes Directors from organisations with which to 21 March 2005 are listed below: Avis Europe has clear commonality, provides an effective Board with a strong mix of industry-specic knowledge and general Jean-Pierre Bizet commercial experience.
This balance enables the Board to Alun Cathcart Chairman bring informed and independent judgement to all aspects of the Lesley Colyer Companys strategic development and performance.
The role of Les Cullen appointed 25 May 2004 the non-executive Directors is viewed as especially important in Roland DIeteren developing strategic proposals and in ensuring that the Companys Benoit Ghiot appointed 15 December 2004 financial controls and risk management systems are robust and Murray Hennessy appointed 15 March 2004 that the Groups financial information is sound.
The non-executive Stephen P Holmes resigned 26 February 2004 Directors also have a key role in scrutinising management Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen performance and monitoring the Companys system for monitoring Malcolm Miller and reporting performance.
They also have responsibility for Simon Palethorpe appointed 6 December 2004 determining appropriate remuneration levels and succession Sir Bob Reid retired 25 May 2004 planning for the executive Directors.
The Chairman meets with Dr Axel von Ruedorffer the non-executive Directors at least once annually in order to Kevin M Sheehan appointed 26 February 2004 facilitate the non-executive Directors contribution to the Board.
Martyn Smith The Company did not have a nominated Senior Independent Dieter Woitscheck resigned 4 August 2004 Director during the period to 21 March 2005 but continues to Murray Hennessy was appointed as Chief Executive on keep this requirement under review.
Les Cullen and Benoit Ghiot were appointed The Board meets a minimum of six times each year and more as non-executive Directors on 25 May 2004 and 15 December frequently when business needs require.
In addition to the six 2004 respectively.
Simon Palethorpe was appointed as Group scheduled Board meetings in 2004, there were four ad hoc Commercial Director on 6 December 2004.
All Directors attended all Board meetings, In accordance with the Articles of Association, Les Cullen, except that due to ill health Dieter Woitscheck was unable to Simon Palethorpe and Benoit Ghiot will retire at the forthcoming attend five Board meetings and Alun Cathcart had to miss one Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will stand for election.
meeting due to a prior commitment.
The Chairman of each of Jean-Pierre Bizet, Lesley Colyer and Axel von Ruedorffer retire the Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, Audit Committee attended the 2004 Annual General Meeting being eligible, will stand for re-election.
and were available to answer shareholders questions during and after the meeting.
As at 21 March 2005 the Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, five executive Directors and a further seven nonThe roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors include three and their respective responsibilities are dened in writing and Directors who have no other association with Avis Europe plc approved by the Board.
The Chairmans key areas of activity and are therefore regarded as independent, being Les Cullen, are the leadership of the Board, including setting its agenda, Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
A further two of the ensuring that it receives clear, accurate and timely information non-executive Directors, Roland DIeteren and Benoit Ghiot, and facilitating the contribution of the non-executive Directors.
in addition to one executive Director, Jean-Pierre Bizet, are The Chairman also chairs the Nominations Committee and appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. which has a shareholding has responsibility for ensuring that Board evaluation processes of 59.6% in the Company.
The obligations of the Directors are carried out and their results acted upon.
The Chairman is appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. and of s. a. DIeteren n. v. as responsible for strategy, in particular for ensuring that effective a shareholder, are set out in a Relationship Agreement entered plans are developed for the short-term and long-term development Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19 Corporate Governance of the Group.
In co-ordination with the Chief Executive, the During 2004, the Nominations Committee appointed Les Cullen Chairman is responsible for encouraging close and effective as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
working relationships between all levels of country, licensee In seeking a non-executive Director to chair the Audit Committee, and Group management.
The Chairman is also responsible for the Nominations Committee required candidates to have corporate governance and for ensuring that the Company recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the maintains effective communication with its shareholders and recommendations of the Code.
In the event, a suitable appointment other stakeholders.
was made via recommendation without the need to advertise the position or utilise the services of a search consultancy although To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access the Committee employs these methods from time to time is given to all relevant information.
The Board retains powers of where necessary.
The Committee also considered and supported decision on all matters of strategy, together with all significant the Chief Executives recommendation that Simon Palethorpe commercial issues, including acquisitions and investments be appointed as an executive Director.
It also managed the subject to limited delegation of authority within specified criteria Chairmanship succession process with Alun Cathcart assuming and all expenditure in excess of a specified level.
All delegated the Chairmanship from 25 May 2004. authorities are clearly documented and widely communicated via senior management.
The Company Secretary is responsible The appointment of Benoit Ghiot as a non-executive Director for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising on 15 December 2004 was made by s. a. DIeteren n. v. pursuant the Board, through the Chairman, on all matters of governance.
to the Relationship Agreement referred to above.
Appointments All Directors have access to the Company Secretary whenever made under the Relationship Agreement are not subject to the they require.
In the event that any Director wishes to take review of the Nominations Committee.
independent professional advice on any point arising in connection The members of the Nominations Committee at its inception on with the exercise of their duties, in accordance with written 26 February 2004 were Alun Cathcart Chairman, Roland DIeteren, procedure the Company Secretary will arrange this at the Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
Les Cullen joined the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary may only Committee upon his appointment to the Board on 25 May 2004 be removed by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
and therefore from that date the membership of the Committee Details of all Directors remuneration and service contracts comprised a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 33.
The Nominations Committee met five times during 2004 and Board Committees all members attended all meetings except that due to a prior The Board Committees in place during 2004 were the commitment Roland DIeteren was unable to attend one meeting.
Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and The Remuneration Committee determines broad policy the Audit Committee.
on senior executive remuneration and terms of service and The Nominations Committee was formed on 26 February 2004 to approves specic terms of appointment for the Chairman, ensure that the Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
The terms is also responsible for the structuring and allocation of the of reference of the Committee were approved by the Board Groups share incentive schemes, including the setting of on that date and are available on the Companys website at appropriate performance targets.
Details of the advisers used www.
The Committee regularly reviews the by the Committee during 2004 are set out on page 26 of the structure and composition of the Board to ensure the required Remuneration Report.
blend of skills and experience appropriate to the Companys In setting policy, the Committee ensures that appropriate needs.
It sets objective criteria in recommending appointees incentives are provided to attract, retain and motivate executives to the Board, including being satisfied that appointees have of the appropriate calibre, to encourage performance and, in a sufficient time available to devote to the role, especially for fair and responsible manner, to reward individual contributions chairmanships.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring to the Group.
The Committee takes account of market practice, that induction and training requirements are met both for the Groups position relative to other companies and the pay new Directors and for the Board as a whole to ensure that and employment conditions of other Group employees.
The Directors regularly update their skills and knowledge, including Committee consults with the Chairman and or Chief Executive their knowledge of developments in the Companys business.
as appropriate when determining the individual remuneration The Committee carries out an annual review of the succession package of each executive Director.
However, no Director is plans for the Board and for senior executives across the Group involved in deciding his her own remuneration.
The Committee to ensure that continuing management capability is available to reviews the terms of the executive Directors service contracts, match the development needs of the business.
The Committee particularly with regard to notice periods, termination payments reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness annually and and compensation commitments in the event of early termination.
recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of The Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness such review.
annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The activities of the Committee during the year are covered in the Remuneration Report on page 26.
20 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The separate Nominations Committee see above and In 2004 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: Remuneration Committee were formed on 26 February 2004 reviewing and approving, prior to Board approval, the Groups to replace the Remuneration and Appointments Committee draft Financial Statements, 2004 interim results statement, which exercised all the relevant functions up to that date.
the internal control report, and external auditors report: The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee were approved by the Board on that date and are available on the considering, prior to release, all special announcements and Companys website at www.
The members Group trading updates: of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee as at reviewing regularly the appropriateness of the Groups 1 January 2004 were Sir Bob Reid Chairman, Roland DIeteren, accounting policies and especially the potential impact of Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
Initially the membership proposed International Financial Reporting Standards on the of the new Remuneration Committee was the same as its Financial Statements: predecessor committee, but as noted in the last Annual Report, the Company reviewed the composition of the Committee receiving and considering an annual report on the Groups during the year as various Board changes took place.
Alun systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting Cathcart was appointed interim Chairman of the Committee on to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular 25 May 2004 following the retirement of Sir Bob Reid, and Les updates on key risk areas of financial control: Cullen joined the Committee on the same date.
Malcolm Miller examining reports on Group-wide risk matters and the risks was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 1 June 2004 associated with major business programmes, and assessing to replace Alun Cathcart, and accordingly since that date the the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system: Committee has comprised three independent non-executive Directors including the Chairman of the Committee together reviewing the internal audit and risk management functions with Roland DIeteren.
The Company recognises that Roland terms of reference and its proposed annual audit programme, DIeteren is not regarded as an independent non-executive and receiving regular progress reports on its work: Director but considers it essential that s. a. DIeteren n. v. as assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk the majority shareholder of the Company, is represented on the management function together with its resources and standing Committee.
As President of s. a. DIeteren n. v. Roland DIeteren in the Group: abstains from discussion and voting on the remuneration of any Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. pursuant to the conducting the annual review of the Audit Committees terms Relationship Agreement referred to above.
of reference and effectiveness: The Remuneration Committee met five times during 2004 and monitoring and reviewing any related party transactions: all members attended all meetings except that due to a prior considering and approving the audit fee and reviewing noncommitment Roland DIeteren was unable to attend one meeting.
audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors during The Remuneration Report to shareholders appears on pages the year: 26 to 33. appraising the external auditors plan for the audit of the The Audit Committee assists the Board by ensuring that the Groups 2004 accounts, including key areas of scope and Company presents a balanced and understandable assessment key areas of risk: and of its position with regard to financial reporting, including interim, assessing external auditors effectiveness and independence, preliminary and other price sensitive statements, where not and making recommendations to the Board regarding their submitted directly to the Board.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the The members of the Audit Committee as at 1 January 2004 were integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness Sir Bob Reid Chairman, Malcolm Miller, Axel von Ruedorffer of the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that and Jean-Pierre Bizet.
Les Cullen joined the Committee as an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external Chairman on his appointment on 25 May 2004, the date of Sir auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services Bob Reids retirement.
Jean-Pierre Bizet stepped down from and fees.
It also reviews annually the Groups system of internal membership of the Committee on that date, having remained control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating risks in the interim for the purposes of continuity.
Therefore with facing the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of effect from 25 May 2004 the Committee is comprised entirely the internal audit and risk management function and is responsible of independent non-executive Directors.
for approving, upon the recommendation of the Group Finance Director, the appointment and termination of the Director of The Audit Committee met four times in 2004 and all members that function.
The Committees terms of reference are available attended all meetings except that Malcolm Miller was unable to on the Companys website at www.
The attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
The Committee Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness meets with executive Directors and senior management, as well annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
as a result of such review.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 21 Corporate Governance Board evaluation Substantial shareholdings During 2004 the Board implemented a formal evaluation process At 21 March 2005 the Company had been advised of the which is designed to provide a rigorous annual evaluation of following notiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital: the Boards own performance and that of its Committees and % of issued share capital individual Directors.
The evaluation process assesses the DIeteren Invest s. a.
48.74 effectiveness of Board and Committee processes to provide a s. a. DIeteren n. v. 10.85 basis for feedback and development where required, and also Fidelity International Limited 7.11 the contribution and commitment of each individual Director.
As Franklin Resources, Inc 5.2722 noted above, the Chairman has responsibility for the evaluation process and for taking any appropriate action based on the results As noted above, an agreement governing the relationship of the evaluation.
Commencing in 2005, the non-executive between s. a. DIeteren n. v. and the Company was entered into Directors, led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, in connection with the Companys otation in 1997.
It includes will be responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, restrictions on s. a. DIeteren n. v. s power to appoint Directors taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
and obligations on those Directors to ensure that the majority of the Board is independent of s. a. DIeteren n. v. It also provides The evaluation processes for Board and Committee performance that all transactions between the Company and s. a. DIeteren n. v. are conducted via a set of structured questionnaires prepared will be on an arms length basis.
The agreement also contains by Towers Perrin, an external consultancy.
The questionnaires certain anti-dilution rights for s. a. DIeteren n. v. provided that ask each Board Committee member to comment on a range the DIeteren Group owns more than 30% of the issued ordinary of factors which contribute to the effectiveness of the Board share capital of the Company.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and relevant feedback is provided to the Board and During the year, the Group has entered into transactions with each Committee.
Following the initial evaluation exercise in 2004, the DIeteren Group on an arms length basis with respect to the Board agreed a number of changes to Board procedures to the purchase and sale of vehicles and the provision of finance.
Further details of these transactions are set out in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
The evaluation process for each individual Director is conducted by the Chairman or in the case of the Chairmans own evaluation As recommended by the Combined Code the Company carries as described above by way of interview and the results reviewed directors and ofcers liability insurance which is arranged with each Director on a one-to-one basis.
under an umbrella policy effected by s. a. DIeteren n. v. Directors interests Shareholder relations Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the The Board as a whole is responsible for maintaining regular Company are set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director make presentations to institutional shareholders Roland DIeteren is President and Chief Executive officer of following the announcement of the interim and preliminary results s. a. DIeteren n. v. and Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen is a noneach year, and are actively involved in an investor relations executive Director of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which holds 63,609,360 programme during the rest of the year.
The Chairman attends ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company.
these whenever possible, and is also responsible for maintaining Jean-Pierre Bizet, Roland DIeteren and Gilbert van Marcke fide a channel through which shareholders can express their views, Lummen are Directors of DIeteren Invest s. a. a wholly owned and for communicating any issues or concerns to the Board as subsidiary of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which is the beneficial owner a whole.
of 285,490,985 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company.
Details of significant contracts entered into with The Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual General s. a. DIeteren n. v. are disclosed below.
Meeting highlighting key business developments during the year.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests meeting or leave written questions, which will be answered in in the shares of the Company or in any material contract or writing as soon as possible afterwards.
A copy of the Chief arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiary Executives presentation may be requested at the Annual General undertakings.
Meeting or from the Investor Relations Department of Avis Share capital Europe plc.
The Companys website at www.
com The last Annual General Meeting authorised the Company gives access to current and historical information for the Group.
to purchase up to 58,578,803 of its own ordinary shares.
Charitable and Political Donations This authority will expire, and is due to be renewed, at the During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling next Annual General Meeting.
The 2004 purchase of its own shares during 2004 pursuant to this charitable donations included 36,600: 25,000 in respect of authority.
Details of the share capital of the Company are the Tsunami disaster in South East Asia.
The Group made no set out in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.
political donations during the year 2003: nil.
22 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Payments to creditors Internal control environment Given the number of countries in which the Group operates it is The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control practice to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
with each supplier and to pay in accordance with contractual In addition to the annual control self-assessment programme, and other legal obligations.
The Company had no trade creditors the Group requires every operating unit, on a quarterly basis, at 31 December 2004 2003: nil.
to respond to a checklist of key financial controls, conrming Auditors that they are in place and fully functioning, and reporting any The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services breakdown in control or occurrence of fraud that has come to being provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has light during the previous quarter.
developed a formal independence policy to help ensure that The principal aim of the system of internal control is the there is no impairment to their independence or objectivity.
management of business risks, with a view to enhancing the The principles that underpin the provision of non-audit services value of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
by the external auditors are that: the auditor should not audit Although no system of internal control can provide absolute its own rms work, make management decisions for the assurance that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group internal control systems have been designed to meet the e. g. success fees or be put in the role of advocate to the Groups specic needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Some types of service are proscribed while others that might be perceived to be in conict with the role of the external The system of internal controls includes but is not limited to: auditor must be submitted to the Audit Committee for approval the clear denition of the organisation structure and the prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
appropriate delegation of authorities to management: The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the the maintenance of appropriate segregation of duties external auditors quarterly in order to consider the independence together with other procedural controls: and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these strategic planning and the related annual budgeting and are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
quarterly review process: The Group audit engagement partner will rotate every five monthly reporting and review of financial results and key years, subject to the transitional provisions provided in the performance statistics: UK regulations in this area.
adoption of accounting policies to help ensure the consistency,  LLP were engaged by the Group integrity and accuracy of the Groups financial records: for certain non-audit activities, the fees for which are set out in specic treasury policies and the regular reporting and Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
The nature and materiality review of all significant treasury transactions and nancing of this work has been reviewed by the Audit Committee which activities: and is satisfied that there has been no conict with the need for audit independence and objectivity.
procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
system of internal control through the following processes: review of internal and external audit plans: Internal control and risk management The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the review of the results of the control self-assessment programme: Groups system of non-financial controls, including operational review of any significant unsatisfactory control matters and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups reported in the quarterly returns to the head ofce: high level internal control arrangements.
These reviews have included an assessment of internal controls, and in particular consideration of individual internal audit reports by the internal financial controls, by the Groups internal audit and risk Chairman of the Committee: management function, management assurance of the maintenance collective review of any control issues that arise from internal of control, and reports from the external auditor on matters and external audits together with any additional matters identied in the course of its statutory audit work.
A key part of brought to its attention: the Groups own internal control review is a quarterly declaration and annual certication process by which responsible managers review of any significant risks identied by the Groups risk confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal financial controls, management process: and their compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations discussions with management on any significant new risk and report any control weaknesses identied.
In addition the areas identied by management and the internal and external Groups internal audit and risk management function conducts audit processes.
an annual control self-assessment programme through which compliance with best practice for both financial and non-financial controls is assessed by local management and is later selectively validated.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23 Corporate Governance The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board reviewing the ethical policies and procedures of the Group: after every Audit Committee meeting.
In satisfying itself that preparing reports for the Audit Committee and Board on any sufficient and appropriate work has been performed, the Board identied key risks: and as a whole considers the adequacy and scope of the reports it has received from the Audit Committee along with corroborative reviewing the minutes of meetings prior to submission to the evidence where necessary.
The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has completed During 2004 the Committee was chaired by the Group Finance its annual review of the effectiveness of the embedded system of Director but from January 2005 a new Group Risk Management internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee with increased powers and responsibilities will be Report for the period since 1 January 2004 and is satisfied that chaired by the Chief Executive who will report on its activities it is in accordance with that guidance.
Assessment of business risk The Group is keen to emphasise that it does not seek to make The Group views the careful management of risk as a key management risk averse but rather to ensure that risk is taken management activity and recognises that managing business on an informed basis rather than an unintentional basis.
risk to deliver opportunities is one of the most important Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the Group activities.
These business risks, which may be strategic, Groups business environment, as distinct from event-driven operational, reputational, financial or environmental, need to be risks, are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive together both understood and visible.
It is the business context in each with senior executive management and discussed by the Board.
situation that determines what is an acceptable level of risk.
Internal audit Much of the Groups work in the area of risk management Avis Europe has an internal audit and risk management is facilitated by the Groups Risk Management Committee function, which is independent of the Groups external auditors.
comprising representatives from the key business functions.
The Audit Committee ensures that this function is appropriately In addition individual risk management committees have been staffed and that its scope of work is adequate in the light of the established in a number of Group operating companies, the key risks facing the Group and the other monitoring functions activities of which are co-ordinated by the Groups internal in place.
It also reviews and approves an annual internal audit audit and risk management function.
plan and considers responses to an effectiveness questionnaire Under the auspices of the Risk Management Committee, the distributed after each audit has been completed.
Group has developed and continues to enhance an enterpriseThe Audit Committee also approves the appointment and wide integrated risk management framework with the aim of dismissal of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit continuing to ensure that the business understands the key and assesses his independence and objectivity.
The Director of risks it faces, has an embedded risk management approach to Risk Management and Internal Audit has unfettered access to all its activities, links risk management to business performance management and the Audit Committee.
reporting and seeks continuous improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
The Group internal audit and risk management function works Through a web-enabled application individual business units in partnership with an outsourced provider, KPMG, to further are able to actively maintain a register for all their event-driven develop and improve the internal control processes throughout business risks and associated mitigation actions and plans.
It provides assurance to the Board that the key This system forms the cornerstone of the risk management control risks faced by the Group are identied and are being activities of the Group, the aim of which is to provide the Board managed.
Its work includes an assessment of the controls in with the assurance that the major risks facing the Group have operation throughout the Group.
Its findings are reported to been identied and assessed, and that there are controls either functional senior management and to the Audit Committee.
in place or planned to manage these risks.
The role of internal audit is to: The responsibilities of the Groups Risk Management assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls Committee include: governing key operational processes and business risks: advising and assisting senior management to identify and provide the Board with an assessment, independent of document the Groups risk prole and to ensure that the management, as to the adequacy of the Groups internal business focuses on critical business issues: operating and financial controls, systems and practices: co-ordinating and facilitating regular risk assessments at assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and a country, functional and Group level: regulatory responsibilities: and assessing the risks identied and actions taken to manage provide advisory services to management in order to enhance and mitigate those risks to a desired level: the control environment and improve business performance.
24 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
