Corporate Governance The Board considers that good corporate governance is All directors bring an independent judgement to bear on the essential to achieving its objective of maximising shareholder issues the Board considers.
The directors have direct access value.
During the year the Company has continued to apply to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is the principles of governance contained within the Combined responsible for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations Code on Corporate Governance issued in 1998 the are complied with and that Board procedures are observed.
Throughout the year ended 31 March The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the 2004 the Company has complied with all the provisions set Board as a whole.
Independent professional advice may also out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
be taken, at the Companys expense, by directors in the furtherance of their duties.
Consideration is given to the The Board has reviewed the Companys governance training needs of directors on their appointment to the Board arrangements in light of the revised Combined Code and non-executive directors benefit from a comprehensive published by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003 induction to the Companys business.
which will apply to the Company for the year ending 31 March 2005 and thereafter, and has made changes as A statement of the directors responsibilities in respect of the necessary and appropriate.
Some additional disclosures accounts is set out on page 28. have been made within this report as a transition towards compliance with the revised Combined Code.
The next The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four Annual Report will include a comprehensive report on the independent non-executive directors and three executive application of the principles of, and compliance with, the directors.
Desmond Smyth is the Boards Senior provisions of the revised Combined Code.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Philip Rogerson, and the Group Chief Executive, Patrick Haren, which has been The Board set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Group is led and controlled by its Board of Directors.
Its Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at role is to: determine long-term strategy: ensure that the the first AGM following their appointment.
Dipesh Shah and Group has adequate available resources: monitor the Mike Toms, who were appointed as non-executive directors achievement of business objectives: promote good corporate in November 2003, will seek re-appointment this year.
All governance: and ensure that the Group meets its directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at responsibilities to shareholders, other providers of finance, the AGM at least every three years.
This year Patrick Bourke customers, employees, industry regulators, local and Patrick Haren offer themselves for re-appointment communities and other stakeholders.
The Board has a by shareholders.
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision including material investment decisions, the award of specific The Board will implement a process for the evaluation of its contracts, appointment of principal advisers and acquisitions effectiveness and that of its Committees and individual and divestments.
directors during the year ending 31 March 2005 in accordance with the requirements of the revised Formal procedures are in place for directors to receive Combined Code.
regular information and matters for approval from the various Committees that assist in managing the Groups affairs.
Briefing papers are circulated to Board members in advance of meetings and presentations are often provided on significant issues and new developments.
Page Twelve Corporate Governance The Audit Committee is chaired by Desmond Smyth and all Board Committees members of the Committee are independent non-executive The Board has delegated the decisions regarding the day-todirectors.
The External Auditors, the Internal Auditors, the day running of the Group to an Executive Committee Chairman, the Group Finance Director and other executive comprising the three executive directors, the Company directors may attend at the invitation of the Committee.
The Secretary and the Managing Director, Electricity Committees remit is to monitor the integrity of the financial Infrastructure.
The Committee normally meets monthly.
statements and any formal announcements relating to the During the year there were 10 scheduled meetings and a Companys financial performance: to review significant number of additional meetings to consider specific issues.
financial reporting issues and judgements which they The Chairman may attend these meetings at his discretion.
contain: to review accounting policies and internal controls: and to make recommendations on these matters to the Board The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of for decision.
The Group Chief Executive and the four independent non-executive directors are members of the During the year the Committee received regular updates Committee.
It has a remit to consider and make from the Risk Management Committee covering its review of recommendations to the Board on all new appointments of business risk registers and steps taken to enhance further the directors having regard to the overall balance and risk management framework within the Group.
The Internal composition of the Board: to consider succession planning: Auditors, , provide the Committee and to make recommendations to the Board concerning the with reports covering risk assurance and updates on work reappointment of any non-executive director following carried out under the internal audit plan.
The External conclusion of his or her specified term of office.
Executive Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, provide the Committee with search consultants are used by the Committee in the search reports on the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Group Finance has also provided the Committee with updates on the planned implementation of IFRS within The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Duncan Lewis the Group.
and all members of the Committee are independent nonexecutive directors.
The Committees function is to The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of determine remuneration policy and specific remuneration Auditors and their remuneration for audit and non-audit packages for executive directors, including pension services and keeps under review the cost effectiveness and arrangements and service contracts.
The Committees remit the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
Ernst & was expanded during the year to include the Chairmans and Young LLP provide external audit and non-audit services and Company Secretarys remuneration in addition to that of the the costs of these services during the year ended 31 March executive directors.
The Committee consults with the Group 2004 are detailed in note 4 to the accounts.
Much of the Chief Executive on aspects of the other executive directors, non-audit cost was associated with the disposals of the and the Company Secretarys, remuneration.
Details on Moyle Interconnector, Fleet and the Groups 30% remuneration policy and the remuneration of directors are shareholding in Lislyn.
Involvement by Ernst & Young LLP in provided in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 18. such transactions was considered appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the Group.
With regard to the provision of ongoing taxation services, including verification, compliance and tax planning, the services of Ernst & Young LLP are used where considered appropriate.
Page Thirteen Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004 During the year the Board adopted a policy on the supply of The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and non-audit services by the External Auditors specifying areas of Audit Committees were reviewed by the Board during the year non-audit work that can be carried out by the External Auditors and are available on request from the Company and on the and the financial thresholds above which non-audit work Companys website: www.
requires the approval of the Board.
The Board adopted a new policy on the employment of former employees of the External Auditors.
Confidential arrangements, by which Group staff may raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters within the Group and have them investigated and followed up, were also introduced.
The following table shows the number of, and each individual members attendance at, meetings of the Board as well as of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year: Director Patrick Patrick Duncan Harry Philip Dipesh Desmond Mike 2 2 Bourke Haren Lewis McCracken Rogerson Shah Smyth Toms 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 Committee Membership N N, R, A N, R, A N, R, A N, R, A N, R, A denotes chairman Board 13 14 11 11 13 4 10 4 14 meetings Nomination 2 1 2 1 2 meetings Remuneration 5 3 2 4 2 5 meetings Audit 3 2 1 3 1 3 meetings 1 N - Nomination Committee Resigned in November 2003 2 R - Remuneration Committee Appointed in November 2003 A - Audit Committee Regular contact is maintained with institutional and other Relations with Shareholders investors and details of related presentations and Communication with shareholders continues to be a matter of announcements are available on the Groups website: priority for the Board.
A detailed review of the business and www.
There is a continual programme of future developments is included on pages 2 to 10.
The Board meetings between the executive directors and major uses the AGM to communicate with shareholders and shareholders on a range of issues and in addition major welcomes their participation.
shareholders have been offered meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the non-executive Shareholders are invited to vote separately on each resolution directors appointed in November 2003.
Feedback from and the percentage of proxy votes lodged for and against each analysts and major shareholders on presentations and other resolution is announced at the AGM the percentage of votes meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
withheld will also be announced from this year.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 2 July 2004 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed.
Page Fourteen Corporate Governance Risk issues are also addressed at management meetings Internal Control through the review of risk information and risk indicators, Turnbull Compliance early warning signs of risks materialising and significant The Board has fully implemented the Turnbull Guidance control failings or weaknesses.
"The Board specifically ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the considers and reviews risks of a corporate nature."
Internal Audit The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal The Groups emphasis on sound management structures and control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is policies and procedures is backed up by operational and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure financial review mechanisms and an externally resourced to achieve business objectives and can only provide internal audit function.
Internal Audit has carried out a reasonable and not absolute assurance against material programme of audits and a review of the risk management misstatement or loss.
Results of the audits were reported to management and the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and also carries out follow-up reviews to determine the extent of managing the Group's significant risks.
This process has implementation of actions that have been agreed by been in place for the year ended 31 March 2004 and up to management.
"The annual internal audit and risk assurance the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, programme and significant internal audit findings are accords with the Turnbull Guidance ""Internal Control: reviewed by the Audit Committee as are any relevant reports Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" and is prepared by the External Auditors."
regularly reviewed by the Board.
Annual Assessment Work has continued throughout the year to embed internal The Board has carried out its annual review of effectiveness control and risk management further into the operations of of the system of internal control.
In carrying out this review the business and to deal with areas of improvement which it considered a number of key reports.
A report from the come to managements and the Boards attention.
Executive Committee set out its assessment of current Businesses are required to maintain risk registers and review significant risks.
A report from the Risk Management them on a regular basis.
Committee verified that each executive director and senior manager had completed and signed a letter of representation Risk Management Committee confirming his or her responsibility in relation to internal The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Group control, the completeness and accuracy of his or her risk Finance Director, comprises a number of senior managers register and risk reporting, disclosing any known material from throughout the Group and meets monthly to assist the failings or weaknesses in internal controls.
Reports were also Board in fulfilling its risk management and control considered from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on responsibilities.
It reviews the risk management process and risk management issues discussed during the year and from ensures appropriate communication between the Board, Internal Audit on the risk management process.
Audit Committee, Executive Committee, Internal Auditors and those with responsibility for risk management issues The Board regards the development of the system of internal within the Group.
The Committee regularly reviews control as an ongoing process and continues to review and individual business risk registers as well as registers covering develop the internal control systems of the Group.
a number of cross functional areas such as Accounting, Treasury, Regulatory Affairs, Procurement and Information Technology.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are reviewed by the Committee annually.
The Committee reviews the level of exposure to individual risks and its acceptability within the policy on risk.
It reports to the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
"Page Fifteen Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004 In May 2003 NIE and NIE Powerteam successfully completed Corporate Social Responsibility ""CSR"" an  strategic review of their certified The Group is committed to operating in a socially, ethically and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System."
This environmentally responsible manner in every aspect of its management system covers circa 75% of current Group activity.
The Group aims to be recognised as The review identified the management system as effective with transparent and ethical in all its dealings and to contribute a responsible attitude toward environmental performance.
through its normal business operations and community Improvements in waste management, energy efficiency, visual involvement programmes to the general economic and social impact reduction, and pollution prevention were cited as well-being of the communities in which it operates.
Various areas for improvement were identified, year ended 31 March 2004, the Group reviewed its approach such as integrating resource usage and supply chain initiatives, to CSR issues and its performance with the aim of embedding all of which have been incorporated into the 2004 05 CSR into its mainstream business processes.
During the year the Group also maintained its top quintile position in the Annual Arena Following the review, the Board adopted a CSR policy with Network Environmental Management survey of Northern targeted strategies to address CSR risks and opportunities Irelands leading companies.
particularly with regard to environmental performance, community involvement, marketplace and workplace issues.
"In August 2003 ""Action Renewables"", a joint venture between the Group and DETI, was launched to raise awareness on Patrick Haren, the Group Chief Executive, has taken climate change and to promote renewable energy."
responsibility at Board level for the CSR policy.
"The Group will utilise its existing risk management framework to identify and EcoEnergy, our ""green"" electricity tariff, continues to grow: manage the risks and opportunities arising from social, ethical sales during the year ended 31 March 2004 were in excess of and environmental issues and to oversee compliance with the 130GWh."
In January 2004 EcoEnergy was recommended by CSR policy.
This framework will assist the Group in reporting Friends of the Earth in their guide to green electricity tariffs.
on all areas of corporate responsibility.
Community and marketplace The Groups continued commitment to corporate responsibility The Group and its individual businesses are committed to the was recognised, in January 2004, by being awarded communities in which they operate.
They seek to make a membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
worthwhile contribution to economic and social development and environmental improvements in those communities.
Environment During the last 12 months many local and national The Group has developed an environmental policy and organisations have continued to benefit from this commitment.
established a framework of objectives aimed at ensuring continuous improvement and risk mitigation in any area which During the year the Board adopted a Group-wide Community may have significant environmental impact.
Harry McCracken, Involvement Policy supporting three key themes: Group Managing Director, Viridian Power & Energy, has responsibility at Board level for environmental matters.
Growth - promoting social and economic development: Environment - safeguarding and protecting the natural environment: and Safety - promoting safe and efficient use of electricity.
Page Sixteen Corporate Governance New partnerships have been formed and longer term Workplace partnering has continued during the year ended The Group has a long standing and recognised commitment to 31 March 2004. promote equality and provide a safe working environment.
"A Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Quality Safety Sx3s partnership with Action Cancer in its award winning Audit was recently conducted on the Health & Safety ""Action Man"" campaign for cancer awareness continued with Management System and the implementation of Health & sponsorship and marketing expertise and helped raise Safety Policy and Procedures within NIE and NIE Powerteam."
Sx3 continues to support the The recommendations from this audit will be implemented to Knights Wheelchair Basketball Team.
enhance the present Health & Safety Management System and demonstrate continual improvement in both quality and NIE has sponsored the Northern Ireland Ornithologists Club effectiveness.
Harry McCracken, Group Managing Director, programme to promote bird conservation throughout Northern Viridian Power & Energy, has responsibility at Board level for Ireland with local schools.
"This year we completed our four-year ""More Power to Trees"" As a premier Northern Ireland company with employees based partnership with the Woodland Trust."
Through the partnership throughout Great Britain and the island of Ireland, the Group NIE has directly assisted in the establishment of 13 out of a total ensures fairness, integrity and respect for all of its employees.
of 50 new woods in Northern Ireland.
NIEs contribution NIE, NIE Powerteam and Sx3 have all received Investors in represented more than 48% of the total number of trees People accreditation with NIE and NIE Powerteam achieving planted for the entire scheme.
In partnership with The Queens University of Belfast the The Group strives to support under-represented groups and to Group has supported a unique childrens health education demonstrate an inclusive approach to diversity issues.
"The programme, ""Medics in Primary Schools"", in the greater Group is represented on a number of committees including the Belfast area."
Equality Forum NI, Employers Forum on Disability NI and Women into Science and Engineering.
"The award winning ""Time to Read"" project continued with staff throughout the Group giving time each week to help school The Company encourages share ownership amongst all children improve their reading skills."
of its employees, including regular offers under its Sharesave Scheme.
Central to NIEs activities is promoting energy efficiency, which encourages reduced energy use and decreases reliance on fossil fuels for energy generation.
Targets which help address the key issues in the areas of climate change and fuel poverty have been in place since 1997.
To date Northern Ireland electricity customers have benefited from energy efficiency measures with lifetime savings in excess of 100m.
In addition over 1,900GWh of energy have been saved together with the reduction of over 360,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
Page Seventeen Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
