Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board In compliance with the Turnbull Report a review of the function for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the of internal audit is carried out annually.
While the current method financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, integrity of peer group review is considered adequate and effective, the and accountability and in accordance with such existing statutory Committee is presently considering outsourcing work for 2005 and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the to a professional audit rm.
Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
The Committee has introduced a policy on the appointment and Its duties are to: role of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment which is subject to review at least every five years and on their consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the ongoing work to ensure that the independence of the Groups auditors and the level of audit fee: auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of nondiscuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: audit services.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required where the expected cost of non-audit services is in excess review the draft interim and annual financial statements before of 75,000. submission to the Board for approval: The day-to-day maintenance of the Committees policy is discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual delegated to the Group finance director who in turn monitors audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: the business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial Committees guidelines.
During 2004, fees payable to Ernst & controls and any auditors recommendations for improvement: Young in respect of taxation advice of 1.2m and audit and assurance services of 1m were approved by the Committee.
consider the findings of internal investigations and In February 2005, the Board decided to alter its arrangements managements response: for tax services and appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP in that oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and capacity, ensuring the independence of the external audit in risk management: accordance with current practice.
pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: The Group maintains a whistle blowing policy in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a review the internal audit programme and its implementation: condential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they review treasury policy.
believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
This is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made either to The chairman of the Committee is Professor Ian Percy.
The other line managers or directly to the company secretary who will appoint members of the Committee are Christopher Clarke and Michael an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases where the Dearden.
The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
The complaint is shown to be justied and at all times the complainant Board remains satisfied that Professor Ian Percy, formerly chairman is informed of progress and outcomes.
In addition, the auditors of The Accounts Commission and Audit Scotland and president of Ernst & Young can be brought in to review procedures if appropriate.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland The whistle blowing policy is published on the Group intranet.
and presently chairman of Companies House, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary on request and can also be found on the The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to assist in companys website.
their work and also has access to independent advice.
The chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration for his duties, details of which are set out on page 33.
The Committee meets Professor Ian Percy each February, March and August and at other times as appropriate.
Chairman of the Audit Committee During the March meeting the Committee undertakes a full review Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board.
of the audit with the Groups auditors.
21 March 2005 There were three meetings in 2004.
In the course of 2004, the Committee discussed the following matters: the Internal Control and Monitoring Programme including the Group Risk and Control Framework : internal audit: accounting policies affecting associates: transition to International Accounting Standards: the fees for Ernst & Young for 2004.
28 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Nomination Committee Report During 2004, the members of the Nomination Committee were Sir Robert Smith chairman, Professor Ian Percy and Mark Selway together with Michael Dearden and Lord Robertson who were appointed to the Committee on 3 February 2004.
Alan Mitchelson acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at other times when necessary.
The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in its work.
The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the Board and its committees and identies and recommends to the Board the appointment of new directors.
The Committees terms of reference establish a framework through which it can operate to ensure the selection process of board candidates is conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
When considering candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of the organisation and ensures that, on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or letter of appointment as appropriate.
Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole.
However, it is the role of the Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment of executive or non-executive directors.
The process by which the Committee brings candidates to the Board has been agreed by the Board.
In the case of executive directors, the Committee has recommendations presented to it by the chief executive and thereafter nominates candidates for consideration by the Board.
The procedure for non-executive directors is that the Committee identies and nominates candidates for consideration by the Board to ll vacancies as and when they arise.
In seeking to recruit a new non-executive director, the Board instructed external recruitment advisers who prepared a shortlist of candidates.
Following an interview process, Stephen King, who met the independence criteria of the Combined Code, was offered and accepted the position as non-executive director.
In lling any future vacancies, the Board expects to follow a similar selection process.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the evaluation process and training of board members, the chairmans appointments and other commitments at which the chairman was not present and succession planning within the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and can also be found on the companys website.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman of the Nomination Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board.
21 March 2005 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 29
