business units together with other Groupwide risks.
The Group Group-wide standards Risk and Control Framework has been considered and adopted by There are, for application throughout the Group, Operating the Board which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
Policies and a standards manual which set out policies and The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than procedures with which all Group companies are required to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can comply.
The manual is communicated to all Group operating only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against companies through the Group intranet.
The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that In addition, the senior executives of each operating company, each company observes and implements the policies who are responsible for the operation of key internal controls, and procedures set out in the manual which was reviewed assess the effectiveness of the internal control environment and in 2004. procedures in their business and a peer review process monitors Information systems and evaluates the system of internal control.
This process covers There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with an the areas of most significant risk to the Group and the annual annual budget approved by the Board.
Management information review programme is developed from feedback from both the systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that external audit risk assessment planning process and the internal identify significant deviations from approved plans and include risk assessment priorities.
The results of these reviews are reported regular re-forecasts for the year.
The Audit Committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised The Groups internal control procedures described in this section by the external auditors.
have not been extended to cover its interests in Joint Ventures and Associates.
The Group has board representation on each of The Group Risk and Control Framework is part of the Core Process its Joint Venture and Associate companies where separate systems Reporting with updates to business risks reported twice per year.
of internal control have been adopted.
At the commencement of each year, targets for improvement are Going concern set at both company and divisional level and progress monitored With regard to the basis on which the accounts of the Group by the Group Operations Executive Committee.
have been prepared, the directors state that, after making all due Twice per year, the operating companies prepare a report enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has identifying the relative probability and severity of the risks adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the identied, the process for managing and mitigating these risks foreseeable future.
Therefore, in preparing the accounts they and the means by which management might be assured that continue to adopt the going concern basis.
The reports are reviewed by the Group Operations Executive Committee and the chief executive reports to the Board on the control issues arising from these processes and such amendments as are thought appropriate are made.
The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the year.
In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of internal control are as follows: Control environment There is a clearly dened organisational structure within which individual responsibilities are identied and monitored.
Businesses follow well understood procedures and are required to comply with them.
Main control procedures The Group has identied a number of key areas which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
These controls include procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for major investments and transactions.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 27
