Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code directors as a group to discuss their thoughts on board The company remains committed to the highest standards of effectiveness.
Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board corporate governance and manages its affairs in accordance with members is undertaken annually, including the chairman, whose the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined appraisal is carried out by the senior non-executive director.
Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
The evaluation examines the balance of skills of the directors, During the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2004, the company the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate complied with the Combined Code provisions.
This statement governance and the operation and content of board meetings.
describes how the company has applied the main and supporting The findings are used to assist the Board in its consideration of principles of the Combined Code.
the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the Board and directors generally.
The Board The Board comprises the chairman, Group chief executive, During 2004, the Board also conducted an internal review of finance director, corporate services director and currently six the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
The Board Committees incorporating a questionnaire covering such matters as meets regularly throughout the year with ad hoc meetings as the role and organisation of each Committee, meeting arrangements, necessary.
In the year to 31 December 2004 the Board met nine information provision and effectiveness.
Meetings are held at the head ofce in Glasgow, London of these questionnaires by the members of each committee, the at the time of the companys annual and interim announcements chairman met with the respective chairmen of the Audit and and at operating locations.
The following table identies the Remuneration Committees to discuss the feedback.
The results number of Board and Committee meetings held during the of this evaluation were reported to the Board and, where areas past year and the attendance record of individual directors.
for improvement had been identied, actions were agreed.
Committee Meetings There is an agreed procedure for directors, where appropriate, Board to take independent professional advice on any matter at the Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for No.
of meetings in year 9354 ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors Sir Robert Smith 9 4 have direct access to the advice and services of the company Mark Selway 9 4 secretary.
The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating Christopher Clarke 9 3 5 the induction and professional development of the board members 2 James Cox 815 and information ows within the Board, its committees and Michael Dearden 9354 between the non-executive directors and senior management.
Alan Mitchelson 9 There is an agreed list of matters which requires to be authorised 3 Professor Ian Percy 9314 by the Board, such as the approval of the Group strategic plan, Chris Rickard 9 Group budget and risk management strategy.
Major acquisitions 4 Lord Robertson 73 and disposals, as well as major capital spend, are authorised by the Note 1.
Ian Boyd attended 7 board meetings during the year until his retirement on 31 Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after execution.
James Cox served on the Audit Committee until 3 February 2004.
The Board also approves the issue of full year and interim accounts.
Ian Percy served on the Remuneration Committee until 3 February 2004.
All directors bring their own independent judgement to all major Note 4.
Lord Robertson joined the Board on 1 February 2004. matters affecting the Group.
The views of executive directors are not limited to those operational or functional areas for which Directors appointed to the Board other than at an annual general directors have prime responsibility.
Board and committee papers meeting of the company are required to retire at the following are sent to directors in sufficient time before meetings and any annual general meeting when they may offer themselves for further back-up papers and information are readily available to all election.
One third of the remaining members of the Board or, directors on request to the company secretary.
The chairman where that number is not a whole number, the nearest lower ensures that non-executive directors are properly briefed on any whole number are required to retire by rotation, subject to all issue arising at board meetings and non-executive directors have directors submitting themselves for re-election at least once access to the chairman at any time.
On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated.
on the company and its activities.
New directors are provided The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is with an appropriate induction programme and site visits are effective in its task of setting and implementing the companys arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training is provided direction.
The chief executive is responsible for management as necessary.
The formal process for evaluating the performance of the business and developing the appropriate organisational of the Board, introduced in 2003, is undertaken annually.
The chief executive chairs This process is conducted internally based on a detailed the Group Operations Executive Committee.
questionnaire completed by each director and individual and collective discussions.
The senior non-executive director, as part of this appraisal process, also meets with the other non-executive The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 25 Corporate Governance Statement Continued During the year the chairman was appointed chairman of Scottish Principles of business conduct and Southern Energy plc with effect from January 2005 and nonAs an international company, the Groups approach to maintaining executive director of 3i Group plc.
He ceased being a BBC Governor high ethical standards is critical to its business success.
The Board has reviewed the chairmans Operating Policies which provide guidance in this area have been ongoing commitments and is satisfied that he has sufficient time communicated throughout the Group through its intranet.
A copy available to meet all his obligations.
The chairman has constantly is available from the Group secretariat.
demonstrated full commitment to his responsibilities at the Weir Shareholders Group and has always made himself available when circumstances The company maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations The non-executive directors are independent of management.
of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these presentations None of the non-executive directors has any material business or is reported to the Board, which gives investors an opportunity to other relationship with the company.
Each member of the Board comment on the quality of the communications they receive in has considerable experience at senior level in other companies, their contact with the chief executive and finance director.
which allows for well informed and broadly based debate.
The Attendees at the results presentation include the chairman, Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the executive directors and the senior non-executive director.
Professor Ian Percy has been The company also encourages communication with private designated the senior non-executive director to whom any shareholders throughout the year and welcomes their concerns can be conveyed.
In addition to the chairmans statement at the annual general meeting, a trading The executive directors have contracts of service with one years update to shareholders is given and details of the companys notice whilst non-executive directors are appointed on a trading activities are on display at the annual general meeting.
rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
The board members attend the annual general meeting and, Board committees in particular, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
all of which have written constitutions.
The current terms of Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at reference are available on the companys website.
The company least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the proxy secretary acts as secretary to all these committees.
votes for and against each resolution are announced after the The principal board committees are the Audit Committee, the result of the votes of the members present and are published Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee on the website after the annual general meeting.
details of which are contained on pages 28 to 35.
Communications Other committees: The Board considers that the annual report and accounts and interim General Administration Committee statements present a balanced and understandable assessment of the The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are Groups performance and prospects.
In addition to information which to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other any company is under a legal or regulatory requirement to publish, matters of a routine nature.
The Committee comprises executive the Group frequently publicises other business developments through members of the Board and meets as required.
the national or specialised press or in its own newspapers and bulletins which have wide circulation.
Executive direction and control The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for The companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively company information, is regularly updated and includes the and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the Board, are achieved.
Its role includes the preparation of the the full year and interim results.
The website also contains an Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business online version of the notice of the annual general meeting, performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and the annual report and accounts and the interim report.
maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent Internal control information on all aspects of business performance, managing In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2004 development planning.
It also approves major items of capital and up until the date of this report.
expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
The Group Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its As part of these procedures, senior executives at each of the Group membership comprises the chief executive, finance director, operating companies and businesses prepared Risk and Control corporate services director and the five divisional managing Frameworks for their respective businesses.
In the year to 31 December 2004, the Group were considered and approved by the chief executive, the finance Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
director and the Group Operations Executive Committee.
In addition, a Group Risk and Control Framework was prepared, taking account of the significant risks identied by the individual 26 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004
