Corporate governance The company believes in high standards of corporate governance Group Chief Executive in January 2004, Peter Hickson acted as and endorses the principles set out in the Combined Code that Chief Executive as well as Chairman.
The board confirms that the company has been in compliance with those provisions throughout the year, The Chairman had no other significant commitments during with two exceptions.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief the year.
Executive were temporarily combined following the resignation of the previous Chief Executive, and that the notice for the 2003 The nine current Directors are comprised of the Chairman, three AGM was served according to statutory requirements.
Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which applies The board has considered the independence of the Nonto reporting periods starting on or after 1 November 2003, was Executive Directors using the criteria set out in provision A.
3.1 of published in July 2003 and has now been incorporated into the the new Combined Code and has concluded that all of the NonListing Rules.
Changes to the companys corporate governance Executive Directors are independent and free from any business regime, consequent to the new Combined Code, are being or other relationship, which could materially interfere with the considered, and the report for the year ended 31 March 2005 exercise of their judgement.
will be in accordance with the new Combined Code.
The board has appointed Bill Cockburn, Deputy Chairman, as Disclosures in this report are in accordance with the Combined Senior Independent Director, through whom shareholders may Code that was adopted in 1998: some additional disclosures, raise any concerns which cannot be conveyed to the board which will be required by the new Combined Code, have been through the Chairman.
All board appointments are subject to full board approval of The board candidates recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The The company is headed by a board currently consisting of nine members of the Nomination Committee are listed below.
Directors with a breadth of business experience.
The board meets regularly and retains responsibility for a schedule of matters Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings during the year covering strategic, operational, financial and compliance issues.
was as follows: It thereby provides leadership to and exercises control over the Number of Total eligible company.
Director committees attended committees The board met 12 times during the year, of which 10 were Peter Hickson Chairman 5 5 regular meetings and two were required to deal with specific Andrew Carr-Locke 1 2 matters.
The regular meetings lasted approximately four hours Bill Cockburn 4 5 on average.
The types of decisions reserved to the board included Frances Heaton 5 5 approval of financial statements, returns to shareholders, Sue Lyons 5 5 consideration of significant contracts and appointment of Jim McKenna 4 5 Directors.
Decisions delegated to management included day-toJim Cronin 2 2 day operational matters and contracts for services below 5 million in value.
The board receives regular reports on those matters reserved to it which enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the company.
Attendance at board meetings during the year was as follows: A board effectiveness evaluation was undertaken in December Number of 2003 which examined the boards structure, functionality, Director boards attended Total eligible boards objectives, meetings, administration and corporate governance.
Peter Hickson Chairman 12 12 The results of that evaluation were considered in February 2004 Jonson Cox 4 4 and various actions identified.
The board expects to repeat that Elliott Mannis 12 12 evaluation and to expand it to also cover board committees and Euan McEwan 12 12 individual Directors in 2004 05.
Roy Pointer 12 12 Andrew Carr-Locke 6 7 All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years Bill Cockburn 11 12 in accordance with Article 121 of the companys Articles of Frances Heaton 12 12 Association.
Those Directors who are subject to re-election at the Sue Lyons 11 12 2004 AGM are identified on page 25.
Jim McKenna 9 12 Jim Cronin 5 5 Directors remuneration Tony Eckford 5 5 The company has adopted the principles set out in the Combined Code and has complied with those Code provisions during the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Details are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages between March 2003 and the appointment of Jonson Cox as 29 to 34.
26 AWG Plc Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings during the The underlying controls are similar in Anglian Water, the IMB and year was as follows: the Property division.
The emphasis on aspects of control varies, for example in Anglian Water there is a higher priority on Number of Total eligible regulatory matters but there is an equal weighting in relation Director committees attended committees to health and safety.
Jim McKenna Chairman 4 7 Andrew Carr-Locke 2 2 The operating businesses have in the year identified their key Bill Cockburn 6 7 business risks and their relative importance in terms of both Frances Heaton 7 7 financial and non-financial criteria.
Material changes in risk and Sue Lyons 7 7 control profiles are discussed at performance review meetings Jim Cronin 4 5 and, for major projects, by the Main Investment Group MIG.
The MIG provided a further independent peer review of projects Accountability and Audit at initiation and thereafter through to commitment.
This group had been delegated authority up to specified levels beyond Financial reporting which board approval was sought.
The companys financial position and prospects are presented in a number of ways during the year to ensure a balanced and The Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee, oversees understandable assessment can be made by shareholders and risk management practice, the control response within the potential shareholders.
This includes: business and advises the Audit Committee of issues identified as required.
- Annual Report and Accounts, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which includes an operating and financial The Executive Directors report to the board material changes review, statements on Directors responsibilities and going in the business and the market place that affect the business concern risk profile.
- Interim report and accounts Throughout the year an internal audit function has been in place.
- Pre close period trading statements which have been Since June 2002 the internal audit role has been enhanced introduced from the financial year beginning 1 April 2003. through outsourcing to Ernst & Young giving access to a wider - Announcements regarding developments and contract range of experienced auditors.
The Head of Internal Audit has wins that may affect the share price of the company are direct access to the Audit Committee if and when required.
made as necessary The internal audit plan, which is approved annually by the Audit - Reports to Ofwat regarding the regulated water business Committee, focuses on the core financial controls and material which includes the Annual June Return, the Procurement risks faced by the business.
The audit plan is supplemented by Plan and the Special Agreements Register.
ad hoc audits at the request of the board and management.
Internal audit findings are reported to the board and the Internal controls Audit Committee.
The system of internal controls seeks to manage and minimise risk.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
internal controls in the group that have been, and continue There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and to be, upgraded and refreshed.
The company has been in managing significant risks faced by the group.
The board compliance with the Turnbull provisions regarding internal is responsible for internal control.
Within defined delegated controls throughout the year.
authorities, management is responsible for risk assessment and control.
Both project-based and business risks financial and nonAudit Committee and auditors financial, including those of a social, ethical or environmental The board has an Audit Committee, chaired by Frances Heaton, nature are dealt with in this way through the management which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets structure.
This is complemented by control-risk self assessment, at least three times each year.
and performance and contract review meetings where management report directly to an Executive Director.
Operating The board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to divisions provide quarterly written confirmation of their monitor and review the integrity of the financial statements, compliance with financial controls.
The control-risk self significant financial reporting judgements, internal controls and assessment is completed by the business annually and is used risk management.
The committees duties therefore also includes to focus risk management within the business and directs consideration of the effectiveness of the groups internal and internal audit planning.
external audit functions and recommends to the board the external auditors remuneration.
The committee also considers The group policies and standards documents provide guidance the groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the to the operational businesses and functions about delegated external auditor and the independence of the external auditor.
authorities, independent review of transactions, the bidding process and project delivery.
