Corporate Governance Board of directors of strategy and discussions of particular business The details of individual directors who served during the issues and risks, including annual reviews of business year and changes in board membership are set out in development plans.
The Board has a formal schedule the Introductory Section of the Annual Report and in of matters reserved for its approval: these matters the Directors Report.
include acquisition and disposal of businesses, issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, effectiveness Non-executive directors are usually appointed for periods of risk management review processes and major of three years, subject to Companies Act provisions.
Additionally, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are subject to retirement by Committees of the Board include an Audit Committee, rotation at least once in every three years.
a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee, all of which function within formal terms All new directors receive full, formal and tailored induction of reference.
Membership of the Committees is set on joining the Board, including formal documents relating out in the Introductory Section of the Annual Report.
to the management and operation of the Company, The Audit Committee meets at least three times annually, recent and current strategic and operational plans and and its activities are outlined later in this Corporate reports, and statutory and management accounts of the Governance Statement.
The Remuneration Committee Group and its subsidiaries: they also meet the Groups meets as required to fulfil its responsibilities, which are major shareholders and visit the Groups operating sites, outlined in the Remuneration Report.
meeting with executives, managers and staff.
The Nomination Committee meets as required to Formal Board meetings are held at least eight times a consider appointments to the Board and to the position year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary to of Company Secretary, both in response to vacancies consider urgent business.
Information provided to the arising and within the overall context of the balance of Board includes monthly Group Operating Reports and the Board: the Committee appoints appropriate Search Management Accounts, reports on treasury and foreign Consultants to assist in the recruitment of new exchange management, and specific business plans board members.
The Board also meets for in-depth reviews Board Members attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year was: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee 1 Total number of meetings 12447 Meetings attended J N Bonnar 12 N A N A N A P Greenhalgh 12 N A N A N A 3 3 M Jovan 10 - 41 2 H V Kelly 10 N A N A N A S P W May 12447 T M McNally 12447 R P Thian 12 N A 4 N A 1 In addition to these seven meetings, further meetings were held in connection with the approval of routine exercises of share options.
2 Maximum possible 10 to date of ceasing board membership.
3 Maximum possible 1 to date of ceasing committee membership.
Formal evaluation of the performance of the Board advice is available to them, at the expense of the and Board Committees, including their effectiveness Company, in connection with matters relating to the and arrangements for and content of meetings, was business of the Company.
conducted after the end of the year, and followed reviews of the schedule of matters reserved for the Relations with shareholders Boards approval and of the terms of reference of the The formal proceedings of the Annual General Meeting Board Committees.
The senior independent director include individual resolutions on separate issues, including met with the other non-executive directors, without the resolutions relating to adoption of the Annual Report and Chairman being present, to appraise the Chairmans Accounts and to adoption of the Remuneration Report.
All performance, and that appraisal has been discussed Board members usually attend the Annual General Meeting with the Chairman.
and are available to respond to shareholders questions.
As a further means of communication with all shareholders, In accordance with the provisions of the Combined the Annual Report and Accounts contains information on Code, the directors are aware that independent legal the Groups business activities, in addition to the statutorily Corporate Governance | 25 Corporate Governance continued required information.
The Companys web site, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, www.
com, also provides information about and is reviewed annually by the Board.
This review the Group, including a section on investor relations.
comprises appropriate consideration and discussion of business and financial reports, strategic plans, capital While carefully recognising statutory constraints concerning expenditure projects, product development projects, tax disclosure of information, the Group endeavours to ensure and treasury issues, risk management and legal issues.
that members of the Board develop an understanding of The internal control system is designed to manage rather the views of major shareholders by providing opportunities than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business for satisfactory dialogue.
These include presentations directly objectives and can only provide reasonable and not related to the publication of preliminary and interim absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
statements, discussions of the Groups strategies and business plans and periodic visits to the Groups The Groups system of internal controls is communicated operational facilities.
through policy and procedure manuals.
The Group uses the corporate intranet as a communication channel to Directors responsibilities ensure that all employees have easy access to The Board of directors has ultimate responsibility for the procedures.
preparation of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board is required by the Companies Act 1985 to Internal financial control prepare for each financial year financial statements which On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee, the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the membership of which comprises solely of non-executive Company and the Group as at the end of the financial Board members, examines the effectiveness of the year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
system of internal financial control.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial Internal financial controls and procedures include: statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting a clearly defined organisation structure and policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable the appropriate delegation of authorities to and prudent judgements and estimates.
All accounting operational management standards which they consider to be applicable have a budgeting system including the preparation of an been followed.
annual budget, approved by the directors, and a re-forecasting process The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the the monthly reporting and review of financial results Company and the Group keep accounting records which compared to budget and the actual results for the disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of previous year the Company and the Group and which enable them to clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure, ensure that the financial statements comply with the including annual budgets, detailed approval procedures, Companies Act 1985. and post-completion appraisals for all acquisitions, detailed due diligence procedures The directors have general responsibility for taking such accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and accounting records other irregularities.
specific treasury policies and objectives, with the reporting to the Board of all significant transactions Going concern basis and exposures.
In view of the Groups satisfactory financial position, the directors confirm that they have reasonable expectation The Audit Committee: that the Company and the Group have adequate resources reviews the draft annual financial statements and other to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and formal announcements, with particular reference to have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing compliance with accounting standards, company law the financial statements.
and FSA requirements, before they are presented to the Board Internal control reviews the external and internal audit work plans The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the considers reports from management, internal and Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its external audit on the system of internal control and effectiveness.
The role of management is to implement any material control weaknesses the Boards policies.
The system of internal control is discusses with management the actions taken on an ongoing process designed to identify, evaluate and problem areas identified by Board members or in manage the significant risks facing the business.
The the internal or external audit reports system has been in place throughout the year and up to monitors the objectivity, effectiveness and independence 26 | Corporate Governance of the external auditor, including the nature and extent the Board introduced a process of regular reporting of non-audit services provided: additionally, the to the Board of key business metrics, introduced a new external auditors have processes in place to ensure procedure for Group-wide management of customer that their independence is maintained, including complaints, and reviewed the Groups policies and safeguards, to ensure that where they do provide procedures for hedging of foreign exchange exposures, non-audit services, their independence is not disaster recovery at the major operational sites and the threatened: they have confirmed to the Audit management of relationships with strategic suppliers.
Committee that in their opinion they are independent reviews arrangements by which staff of the Company Combined code compliance may, in confidence, raise concern about possible During the year, in addition to their directors fees, improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other each of the non-executive directors received remuneration matters and by which the Company investigates such for consultancy projects carried out for the Company, matters and implements appropriate actions.
the amounts of which are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
However these projects were of a discrete Compliance with the internal financial control system nature and the Board is confident that the amounts is maintained by peer review by other members of of remuneration involved did not compromise the the Groups finance management organisation and by independence of any of the non-executive directors.
the periodic appointment of consultants to conduct Although Dr May has been a Board member for more specific internal audit activities and assist in the than nine years since his first election, during that time implementation of appropriate action plans.
the entire remaining Board membership has changed, as has the entire level of management that reports to Operational and compliance controls the Board, except for the Company Secretary, as well The Groups operating policies are outlined in the Directors as much of the Groups senior management below those Report.
Additional procedures and controls include: levels.
This means that Dr Mays position with respect to human resources: The Group has local policy manuals the rest of the Board, all reports to the Board, and much and has maintained IIP Investor in People status of the Groups senior management, continues to be health, safety and environment: Risk management is independent in the ways envisaged by the Combined addressed by training, maintenance programmes and Code.
The Board therefore considers that all of the nonthe use of monitoring and control devices.
The Group executive directors were independent during 2004.
The also meets the standards of the IPC Integrated Board also considers that Dr Kehler, who was appointed Pollution Control body and PABIAC Paper and Board on 1 January 2005, is independent notwithstanding his Industry Advisory Committee interest in the contracts described in the Directors manufacturing, quality and research and development: Report, as these contracts do not impinge on his normal All operations are required to be performed to responsibilities as a non-executive director.
These procedures are subject to independent audit Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the information technology systems: The Group has Company has been in compliance with the Code internal procedures relating to access controls, provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans.
except that: i | following the departure of the Chief Executive at the Risk management end of November 2004, Mr Thians role became that of The following have been identified as the Groups Chairman and Chief Executive, pending the appointment key risk areas: of a new chief executive human resources ii | appraisals of the Board and Board Committees health, safety and environment were carried out after the end of the year information technology iii | although the members of the Committee have financial extensive relevant business experience, as briefly commercial described in the Introductory Section to the Annual business operations Report, and consequently a general awareness of finance science and technology issues, they do not have specialist financial experience.
regulatory facilities Board and Committee structures and succession issues intellectual property and corporate administration will be revisited during 2005.
Part of the Boards decision-making procedure is the By order of the Board consideration of the risks involved in particular proposals John Simmonds and actions, and the control processes in place to manage Company Secretary those risks within acceptable limits.
For example, in 2004 8 April 2005 Corporate Governance | 27 MINI-UNI PREP EVER INCREASING COST AWARENESS DEMANDS CONTINUING SIMPLIFICATION OF SAMPLE PREPARATION PROCEDURES.
WHATMAN MINI-UNIPREP ENABLED A WORLD-LEADING CHEMICAL COMPANY TO REPLACE A COMPLEX MULTISTEP PROCESS WITH A STRAIGHT FORWARD TIME AND COST EFFECTIVE TWO STEP PROCEDURE.
