Corporate governance Attendance at meetings This report is written at a time of The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held during transition in the corporate governance the past year and the attendance record of each individual director arena.
Whitbread is not required to make a statement on its compliance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1 with the new Combined Code until this Committee Committee Committee time next year.
Number of meetings in the year 11 495 However, as the company is committed to high standards of corporate Sir John Banham 11 3 95 Stewart Miller 11 governance, it has been decided to Alan Parker 11 explain in this report how the main and Bill Shannon 11 supporting principles of the new David Richardson 11 Combined Code are being applied.
The David Thomas 11 4 company fulfils this years reporting Charles Gurassa 10 8 5 requirements by making a statement of Rod Kent 9384 compliance against the current Prue Leith 11 385 2 Combined Code, as well as making a David Turner 10 474 voluntary additional statement about Lord Williamson 11 495 compliance with the new Code.
Sir John Banham resigned as a member of the Audit Committee following the adoption by the committee of new terms of reference on 22 July 2003.
He attended all three of Directors the meetings of the Audit Committee which took place while he was still a member The Board of the committee.
Throughout the financial year the board consisted of the Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and five executive directors.
Key points Chairman and Chief Executive to note are: There is a clear division of responsibility the board endorses the companys between the Chairman and Chief strategic aims and ensures that the Executive.
This division is in writing necessary resources are in place in as follows: order to meet those aims: The Chairman is responsible for: The Chief Executive is responsible for: the board has responsibility for running the board and setting setting the strategic direction for ensuring that the companys its agenda: the company: obligations to its shareholders are met: ensuring, through the Company overseeing the day to day Secretary, that the members of the management of the company: all members of the board take board receive accurate, timely and collective responsibility for the the line management of senior clear information and that there performance of the company and executives, including the other is a good flow of information: all decisions are taken objectively executive directors of Whitbread PLC in the interests of the company: managing the board to ensure and the Company Secretary: that sufficient time is allowed an updated schedule of matters the activities of the Leadership Group for the discussion of complex reserved to the board was adopted a group of the companys 85 most or contentious issues: in February 2004 and includes key senior executives: aspects of strategy and management, ensuring that the directors ensuring effective communication financial reporting and controls, continually update their knowledge with shareholders: the management of shareholder and capabilities: communication, as well as the ensuring effective communication ensuring that the members of the approval of policies and major with employees.
board develop an understanding of transactions.
The schedule can the views of the major investors: be seen in full on the companys website www.
the annual evaluation of the performance of the board and The board met 11 times last year and its committees.
the directors are given timely and appropriate information for each board meeting, including monthly financial and trading reports.
The attendance records of individual directors can be found in the table above.
1 The new Combined Code is the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 and effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
2 The current Combined Code is the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 1998. page 36 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Corporate governance Board balance and independence The appointment of Alan Parker, The performance of the Chairman was The board is satisfied that none of the as successor to David Thomas, to evaluated during the year by Rod Kent, non-executive directors have the position of Chief Executive was the Senior Independent Director, who circumstances or relationships, as announced in December 2003.
A case discussed the Chairmans performance defined in the new Combined Code, study outlining the processes that were with the non-executive directors and which are likely to affect, or could undertaken by the company in making some of the executive directors.
The appear to affect, the directors this appointment can be found below.
results of the review were given directly judgement.
The board therefore to the Chairman by Rod Kent.
It is considers that all five non-executive intended that Rod will hold a meeting directors are independent.
Whitbread The appointment of Alan Parker with the other non-executive directors, believes that its board is, and will as Chief Executive without either the Chairman or Chief continue to be, of a size appropriate for The Nomination Committee has Executive being present, during 2004 5. the requirements of the business and had a busy year with the search Shareholder relations that it has a good balance between for a successor to David Thomas executive and independent nonas Chief Executive.
The following is The company recognises the executive directors.
As part of their role a summary of the processes that importance of dialogue with both the non-executive directors were gone through to result in the institutional and private shareholders.
constructively challenge and assist in announcement that Alan Parker Institutional shareholders, fund the development of strategy.
will be the new Chief Executive: managers and analysts are briefed at Appointments to the board specifications for both the role and regular meetings and presentations.
In The company has a formal, rigorous the type of individual required were 2003 4 over 100 meetings were held and transparent procedure for the prepared with institutional shareholders, either appointment of new directors.
one to one or as part of a larger expressions of interest were Appointments to the board are made on grouping, both in the UK and abroad.
received from internal candidates: merit against objective criteria after The Chairman, executive directors, and receiving the recommendation of the consultants were used to identify the corporate affairs director all play an Nomination Committee.
Details of the external candidates: active part in these meetings.
Recent membership, terms of reference and topics of interest to investors have been each shortlisted external candidate, activities of the Nomination Committee the Chief Executive succession, as well as all internal candidates, can be found in the table on page 39. continuing achievement of the were interviewed and given the New directors stand for election at the companys growth targets, the opportunity to make a presentation AGM following their appointment.
Every possibility of reducing capital employed to the Nomination Committee: director is required to retire by rotation, in the business and acquisition strategy.
and may stand for re-election if detailed profiles were obtained for The board also receives a quarterly nominated by the Nomination each candidate: investor relations report which includes Committee, at least every third year.
share price performance, movements in after four formal Nomination institutional holdings and the response All new appointments of non-executive Committee meetings, over a period by institutions to the communications directors are for an initial fixed term of of 12 months, a unanimous programme.
In addition a representative three years.
Although in some recommendation was made to the of one of the companys brokers attends circumstances a longer term may be board that Alan Parker be appointed one board meeting each year to update deemed appropriate, the board has as the new Chief Executive.
the board on the latest issues.
approved a guideline that non-executive directors should normally be expected Annual and interim results Performance evaluation to serve two three year terms.
Prue Leith, presentations are webcast live so that The performance of the board, and who is currently serving a third threeall shareholders can receive the same individual  year term, has indicated that she will information at the same time.
The to the board, are appraised annually not be seeking re-election at next years companys website provides by the Chairman.
The board has continued to comprehensive information for private benefit from Prues significant the Chairman asked each director shareholders and receives over half a experience in the leisure industry during to complete a formal questionnaire million hits a year.
her extended time as a director.
on the boards performance: Private shareholders have the The Company Secretary is responsible the Chairman met or spoke to each opportunity to put questions to the for ensuring that on appointment director on a one to one basis: board at the AGM, and at all other times new directors are given a formal and by e-mailing or writing to the company.
the results of the review were individually tailored induction.
In the In addition a presentation was made discussed by the board and an case of newly appointed non-executive to members of the UK Shareholders appropriate action plan was agreed: directors this would typically include Association during the year.
a number of visits to the companys all executive directors went through Any shareholder may contact the brands to enable a thorough a formal evaluation process, Chairman, Chief Executive or, if more understanding of the businesses.
undertaken by an external appropriate, the Senior Independent New directors are available to meet organisation, during the year.
Director to raise any issue, or may raise major shareholders if requested.
The performance of the boards any such issue with one or all of the noncommittees will be reviewed next year executive directors of the company.
The in line with their terms of reference.
Company Secretary can facilitate any such communication if requested.
page 37 Corporate governance Remuneration Accountability and audit financial policies, controls and Details of how Whitbread has applied Financial reporting procedures manuals, which are the main and supporting principles of The board always strives to present regularly reviewed and updated: the new Combined Code with regard a balanced and understandable the limits of authority, which are to remuneration can be found in the assessment of the companys position prescribed for employees.
The groups Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 48. and prospects.
This is the case for formal organisational structure allows the In addition the table on page 39 reports such as this, other price sensitive appropriate segregation of tasks: contains details of the membership, public reports, reports to regulators and terms of reference and activities of the any other information required by statute.
the groups Code of Business Ethics, Remuneration Committee.
which is briefed annually to Internal controls employees and details of which can The board is responsible for the groups Board committees be found earlier in this report: system of internal control and for The table on page 39 contains reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a the internal audit function, which information relating to the Audit system is designed to manage rather reports on the effectiveness of Committee, the Nomination Committee than eliminate the risk of failure to operational and financial controls and the Remuneration Committee.
It can only across the group.
The Audit provide reasonable, and not absolute, Committee regularly reviews the In addition to these three board assurance against material major findings from both internal committees: misstatement or loss.
Details of the the board has delegated authority to members, the terms of reference and The board has established an ongoing the General Purposes Committee to the activities of the Audit Committee process for identifying, evaluating and deal with business of a routine nature during the year can be found in the managing the groups significant risks.
and with other specific matters table on page 39.
This process was in place throughout delegated to it by the board.
The process is The board has carried out a specific committee is made up of at least two regularly reviewed by the board and assessment of the groups system of directors designated by the board and accords with the internal control guidance internal control for the purpose of this meets as required: for directors on the Combined Code.
The Group Executive and the Group Executive has met Audit Committee have assisted the Key elements of the groups risk monthly to deal with the day-to-day board in discharging these management and internal control management of the company.
system include: It comprises the executive directors, Statement of compliance Mike Tye managing director, Travel the formulation, evaluation and Inn and Tim Hammond corporate annual approval by the board of The company has complied throughout development director.
Actual the year with the provisions set out in results are reported monthly against Section 1 of the current Combined Code Code of Business Ethics budget and the previous years with the exception of certain provisions figures.
Key risks are identified and The company takes the view that relating to directorsservice contracts action plans prepared accordingly: corporate governance is not a matter for and to the appointment of a senior the board or its committees alone and the production by each business of an independent director.
However, Rod Kent has developed a Code of Business Ethics, annual risks and controls matrix, was appointed as Senior Independent which is briefed annually to employees.
covering major risks and plans to Director on 24 April 2003 and, as This covers dealings with customers, mitigate those risks.
These matrices explained in the Remuneration Report suppliers and government officials: are considered by the Group Executive on page 42, the executive directors safeguarding the companys assets: and the Audit Committee: service contracts now comply with keeping accurate and reliable records: the provisions.
a regular review by the Group and avoiding conflicts of interest.
Its Executive and the board of changes in The Company Secretary produced principal message is that all employees the major risks facing the group and a review of the companys corporate must observe a code of conduct based development of the appropriate governance procedures, which was on honesty, integrity and fair dealing.
action plans: considered by the board in February In addition the company has a formal 2004.
The aim of the review was the Treasury Committee, which whistleblowing policy, which is set out to consider whether the company reviews treasury activities monthly.
in the Code of Business Ethics.
Under the complied with the new Combined Code.
The committee is chaired by the policy employees are able to speak to an The board agreed that the company finance director.
Treasury activities independent organisation and any was already substantially in compliance are conducted in accordance with significant financial or control issues with the new Code.
detailed procedures and mandates: would then be brought to the attention of the chairman of the Audit Committee.
the consideration of risks and the appropriate action plans, when appraising and approving all major capital and revenue projects and change programmes.
A post completion review of each major project is undertaken: page 38 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Corporate governance Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman David Turner Sir John Banham Charles Gurassa Members of Committee Rod Kent Charles Gurassa Rod Kent Prue Leith Rod Kent Prue Leith Lord Williamson Prue Leith David Turner David Thomas Lord Williamson David Turner Lord Williamson Summary of key terms The committee is responsible for: The committee is responsible The committee is responsible of reference the full terms for identifying and nominating, for agreeing the broad policy overseeing the process for of reference can be found for board approval, candidates and framework for the the selection, appointment on the companys website to fill board vacancies as and remuneration of the Chief and re-appointment of and are also available when they arise.
Executive, the Chairman, the auditors: by requesting a copy in executive directors, members The committee is also writing from the Company reviewing the relationship of the Group Executive and responsible for reviewing Secretary with the auditors, including the Company Secretary.
policy and making agreeing the list of non-audit recommendations to the In addition the committee is work to be carried out by board in respect of: responsible for the following, the auditors: in respect of the people the structure, size and reviewing the companys mentioned above: composition of the board: financial statements and the design of, and targets the representation of succession planning: for, performance related pay financial statements in the the balance of skills, schemes: companys announcements knowledge and capabilities and ensuring compliance the design of, and the required by the board.
with requirements: approval of awards under, share incentive plans.
keeping the companys systems of internal controls It is also responsible for under review.
the determination of total remuneration packages for the executive directors and other senior executives.
Summary of key issues The committees main focus During the year the During the year the dealt with during the year during the year was on: committees main areas committee dealt with: of activity were: internal controls: the major review of the the selection of Alan Parker companys remuneration auditorsindependence: to be the new Chief policy, as described in the approval of financial Executive, following the Remuneration Report statements for the full retirement of David Thomas on pages 40 to 42. and half year.
after the 2004 AGM: the recommendation of Angie Risley for appointment to the board.
Member of Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience page 39
