William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Membership and meetings Main activities during 2004 Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management Committee together The Committee has discharged its with the year in which membership commenced.
During the period, the majority of members of the responsibilities during the period by Committee were independent non executive directors and with effect from 1 January 2005, all performing the following activities.
members of the Committee are independent non executive directors.
Mr Scott made a significant Financial statements contribution to the Committee, however, as Chairman of the Board, it was felt appropriate for him to step down on the appointment of Mr Edmonds as an additional independent non executive director.
During the period, the Committee reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures made in the Director Year of appointment Appointment retirement preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Statement and David Allvey, Chairman 2002 the other trading statements made by the David Edmonds 2005 Appointed 1 January 2005 Group together with any related management Barry Gibson 2002 letters, letters of representation and reports Charles Scott 2002 Retired on 1 January 2005 from the external auditors.
Significant financial reporting issues and judgments were considered together with any significant The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Review the major risks affecting the Group accounting policies and changes proposed to Committee.
Other individuals attend at the and assist the Board with reviewing the them.
request of the Committee Chairman and during effectiveness of the controls operating over the period the external auditors, Chief the Groups financial and non-financial risks: Internal control and risk management Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Review the nature and scope of the work to The Committee has reviewed the Groups Internal Audit and the Group Financial be performed by the external and internal internal control and risk management systems Controller have usually attended meetings to auditors, the result of that work and and has received reports from a number of report to the Committee and provide managements response, and their departments, and, where appropriate, clarification and explanations where effectiveness: presentations from senior management, on the appropriate.
The Corporate Finance Manager major risks faced by the Group and the and Head of Security have attended meetings Oversee the relationship with the external procedures established to identify, assess, as requested.
The Committee also meets with auditors including making recommendations manage, monitor and report on these risks.
the external auditors without executive to the Board regarding their appointment The Committee has reviewed and approved management present on a regular basis.
The or removal and developing a policy the statements on internal controls on Committee met on six occasions during the regarding the provision of non-audit services pages 24 to 25. period and details of attendance at committee to the Group: meetings is set out on page 23.
External auditors Meet with the executive directors and Mr Allvey has recent and relevant financial The Committee has responsibility for management, as well as privately with both experience.
He is a chartered accountant, a overseeing the relationship with the external the external and internal auditors: and former Group Finance Director of Barclays PLC auditors and approves the external auditors Report to shareholders annually on its role and BAT Industries PLC and a former member engagement letter, audit fee and audit and and responsibilities.
of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Mr client services plan including the planned Edmonds and Mr Gibson are both financially levels of materiality.
The external auditors The Chairman of the Audit and Risk literate and have significant general business attend each committee meeting and at least Management Committee reports to the Board experience of executive roles in both private annually meet with the Committee without on the outcome of meetings.
and public organisations and details of each executive management.
The Chairman of the directors significant current and prior A formalised whistle-blowing policy and Committee also meets privately with the appointments are set out on page 13. procedure for staff to raise issues regarding auditors.
Letters of representation are reviewed possible improprieties in matters of financial prior to signature by executive management.
reporting or other matters has been established Role of the Audit and Risk During the period, the Committee received and it is the responsibility of the Committee Management Committee regular reports from the external auditors to monitor its effectiveness and any A full copy of the terms of reference for the including a formal written report dealing with notifications made.
Committee can be obtained via the website the audit objectives: the auditors qualifications, www.
co. uk or by request to the The Committee has access to the services of the expertise and resources: effectiveness of the Company Secretary.
The Committees principal Internal Audit and Company Secretarial audit process: procedures and policies for responsibilities are to: departments and is authorised to obtain maintaining independence: and compliance independent professional advice if it considers with the ethical standards issued by the Review and advise the Board on the Groups it necessary.
The external auditors interim and annual financial statements and management letter is reviewed, as is its accounting policies and to monitor the managements response to issues raised.
The integrity of the financial statements and Committee monitors the ethical guidance announcements relating to financial regarding rotation of audit partners and a performance: 26 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee change in audit partner was made during the the department has to complete its remit.
The period when the audit partner was rotated off Internal Audit department has unrestricted the audit in accordance with the latest access to all Group documentation, premises, guidance.
The new audit partner was appointed functions and employees as required to enable following interviews with the Committee it to perform its functions.
The appointment and Chairman and the Group Finance Director and removal of the Head of Internal Audit is the subsequent approval by the Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Board During the period, the Committee agreed with and Committee Chairmen and is accountable to the Board a written policy regarding the the Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit employment by the Group of former employees meets regularly with the Committee Chairman of the external auditors and also a revised without executive management.
policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The Committee approves any Other activities non-audit work to be undertaken by the During the period other significant activities external auditors involving fees in excess of addressed by the Committee were as follows: 25,000.
Where no committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame, The introduction of International Financial approval is sought from the Committee Reporting Standards: Chairman and subsequently ratified at the next meeting.
All non-audit services provided by the Compliance with various corporate external auditors are reported to the Committee governance issues: at its next scheduled meeting.
The external Review of major projects: and auditors are excluded from performing any dayto-day accountancy work for the Group.
The A review of its own performance and its policy also sets out the criteria to be followed remit resulting in recommendations to the when considering whether external auditors Board regarding revised terms of reference.
should be engaged to undertake non-audit The revisions did not introduce fundamental services with the aim of safeguarding the changes to the activities of the Committee, external auditors objectivity and independence.
but rather clarified and set out more fully the existing responsibilities of the The Committee is satisfied with the Committee in line with current best practice.
performance of the external auditors during the year, and the policies and procedures in place Regular updates are provided to the Committee to maintain their objectivity and independence, on developments in financial reporting and risk and has recommended that they be management and related legal and corporate re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual governance matters.
Internal Audit The Committee approves the annual audit plan for the Internal Audit department and monitors progress against the plan during the period.
Audit reports are circulated to the Committee members after each audit and the Committee monitors progress against actions identified in these reports and the external auditors management letter.
The Committee has established a number of procedures to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department.
The procedures include assessing the Internal Audit departments terms of reference and its performance against those terms and a number of predetermined criteria, which includes a review of the departments compliance with the Institute of Internal Auditors Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
The Committee also assesses annually the resources 27
