William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Main activities during 2004 Set out below is the current membership of the During the period, the Committee made Nomination Committee together with the year recommendations to the Board regarding its in which membership commenced.
No changes size, structure and composition and led the have been made to committee membership process for the recruitment of an additional during the period under review.
The majority of independent non executive director.
A formal members of the committee are independent recruitment process was undertaken involving non executive directors and the committee is the production of a detailed role description chaired by the Board Chairman.
and use of external search consultants.
Mr Edmonds met with the Nomination Director Year of appointment Committee members, and then the other members of the Board, prior to the Committee Charles Scott, Chairman 2002 recommending his appointment.
Mr Edmonds David Allvey 2002 received a formal letter of appointment from Barry Gibson 2002 the Company, which set out clearly what was expected in terms of time commitment, the The Company Secretary, or one of the requirement to disclose future commitments committee members, acts as secretary to the in accordance with the Boards policy and Committee.
the need to provide an explanation to the Chairman, on request, in the event The Committee meets as necessary but at least of resignation.
twice a year usually before or after regular meetings of the Board and met formally on four The Committee also made recommendations occasions during 2004. during the period to the Board regarding the time commitment required of non executive Role of the Nomination directors, a policy on multiple board appointments for executive and non executive Committee directors and role descriptions for the A full copy of the terms of reference for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Committee can be obtained via the website Independent Non Executive Director.
co. uk or by request to the Company Secretary and its principal function is The Committee undertook a review of its own to carry out a formal selection process for performance during the period, which led to executive and non executive directors and revised terms of reference being adopted by the subsequently to propose to the Board any new Board in 2004.
The revisions made largely appointments.
clarified and set out more fully the existing responsibilities of the Committee in line with The Nomination Committee oversees current best practice.
The Board, on recommendation from the Chief Executive, reviews contingency and succession planning arrangements for senior management below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings.
