William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement on Corporate Governance The directors are committed to high standards The Board considers that its primary role is to The Board comprises individuals with wide of corporate governance and this statement sets provide leadership to the Group, to set the business experience of various sectors of out how the Board has applied the principles Groups long-term strategic objectives and to industry and in the public sector.
They have set out in the July 2003 Financial Reporting develop robust corporate governance and risk access to all information relating to the Group, Council Combined Code on Corporate management practices.
The Schedule of Matters the advice and services of the Company Governance the Code and identifies, and Reserved to the Board and delegated Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that provides an explanation for any nonauthorities are reviewed and approved by the Board procedures are followed and, as compliance with the Codes provisions during Board annually.
Matters reserved to the Board required, external advice at the expense of the period.
include, amongst other matters: the Group.
Setting the overall direction, long-term During the period, the Chairman met with the Compliance with the Codes objectives and strategy of the Group and non executive directors without the executive provisions delegating day-to-day management to the directors being present and as part of the Throughout the period, the Company has Chief Executive: process to appraise the Chairmans performance, complied with the provisions of the Code other the Senior Independent Non Executive Director Reviewing Group performance: than provisions B.
These met with Mr Allvey, the other independent non Reviewing the arrangements in place provisions require the Board to establish executive director at that time.
relating to regulatory and industry issues: remuneration and audit committees comprising of at least three members all of whom should Approving the appointment and removal of Chairman and Chief Executive be independent.
During the period, these any Board member and the Company There is a clear division of responsibilities committees comprised of two independent Secretary: between the Chairman and Chief Executive directors, Messrs Gibson and Allvey, together whereby the Chairman is responsible for the Reviewing and approving the terms of with the Chairman, Mr Scott.
The Board had running of the Board, and the Chief Executive reference of the various Board committees identified the need to recruit an additional has executive responsibility for the running of and receiving reports from committee independent non executive director during the business.
During 2004, the Nomination chairmen on a regular basis: 2004 and this process concluded with the Committee and the Board reviewed and appointment of Mr Edmonds to the Board on 1 Approving changes to the Groups capital approved revised role descriptions for these January 2005.
On this date, he also became a structure: any significant acquisitions and individuals together with a written role member of the Audit and Risk Management disposals: capital investment projects and description for the Senior Independent Non Committee and the Remuneration Committee material contracts: Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Non and Mr Scott stepped down as a member of Approval of the Groups annual budget, Executive Directors main role is to satisfy the these committees.
The Remuneration Corporate Plan, Annual Report and Accounts function outlined in the Code of being available Committee also assumed responsibility for and Interim Statement, and setting the to shareholders if there are concerns which setting the Chairmans remuneration with effect Groups dividend policy: normal contact has failed to resolve, to lead the from 1 January 2005. process for evaluating the Chairmans Approval of the Groups charitable donations performance and to chair the Nomination and Group-wide corporate social The Board Committee when it is considering succession to responsibility policies: The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior the role of chairman.
No one individual has Undertaking reviews of Board, committee Independent Non Executive Director and other unfettered powers of decision-making.
and individual director performance at least directors, including those considered by the Mr Scott satisfied the independence criteria annually: and Board to be independent are listed on page 13. detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the Code on his Details of Board and committee attendance are Succession planning for senior management appointment as Chairman and details of his set out on page 23.
No directors have resigned and the Board the latter on the other significant commitments are set out on during the year.
Appropriate insurance cover is recommendation of the Nomination page 13.
He stepped down as a director of in place in respect of legal action against Committee.
adidas-Salomon AG during 2004 and as a directors.
director of TBI PLC in early 2005.
The authority delegated to senior management The Board met thirteen times during the year provides a practical framework to executive and operates within a formal schedule of management, which seeks to achieve the dual Board balance, independence and matters reserved to it.
Other powers are objectives of maintaining effective financial and appointments delegated to the various Board Committees and operational controls whilst providing sufficient During the year, the Nomination Committee and senior management.
Details of the roles and flexibility to manage the business.
Examples of the Board reviewed the structure, size and responsibilities of the Board Committees are set areas of such delegated authority include the composition of the Board together with an out on page 24.
Papers for board and release of capital expenditure against approved evaluation of the Boards balance of skills, committee meetings are circulated in advance budgets: treasury activity within approved knowledge and experience : the membership of the relevant meeting and where a director is limits: payroll processing: property transactions: of the various Board committees and the unable to attend he continues to be provided LBO development activities: the setting expected time commitment and policy for with a full copy of the papers and has the of bet acceptance limits and routine multiple board appointments for executive and opportunity to comment on the matters to transaction processing.
22 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement on Corporate Governance 2004 Board and Committee meetings Audit and Risk Management Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 13647 Meetings attended Charles Scott 13647 David Allvey 13647 Barry Gibson 12 6 4 7 David Harding 13 N A N A N A Tom Singer 13 N A N A N A Mr Gibson was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a conflicting commitment.
The directors aim is to ensure that the balance Information and professional Performance evaluation of the Board reflects the changing needs of the development A process of performance evaluation of the Groups business.
In 2004, the Board identified Board, its committees and directors has been The Board receives detailed reports from the need for an additional independent non undertaken in 2004 involving: executive management on the performance of executive director to strengthen the the Group at monthly board meetings and other independent element on the Board and to add The three Board committees then in place information as necessary and senior additional regulatory experience.
David conducting a review of their terms of management regularly make presentations to Edmonds was appointed on 1 January 2005 reference and considering a detailed the Board on their areas of responsibility.
and details of the process used to appoint him questionnaire to assess committee Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, are set out on page 28.
The Nomination performance: corporate governance and financial reporting Committee and the Board will continue to developments and directors are encouraged to One-to-one meetings between the Chairman monitor the Board balance and skills at attend external seminars on areas of relevance and each director to assess individual least annually.
In early 2005, the Board approved director performance and to allow any other During the period, the Board comprised two an information and professional development issues to be raised: and independent non executive directors out of a policy for directors.
The performance evaluation process total of five directors, and currently comprises A formal induction programme has been concluded with an assessment by the Board three independent non executive directors out developed by the Company Secretary and of its own performance, feedback to the of a total of six directors, satisfying the Code approved by the Chairman.
This was discussed Board from the chairman of each committee requirements that at least half the Board, with Mr Edmonds following his appointment and the Board, and approval of action to excluding the Chairman, should comprise non and tailored as appropriate.
A range of both address issues raised.
executive directors determined by the Board to general and companyspecific information was be independent.
The Senior Independent Non Executive Director provided in hard copy and this was led the process for the evaluation of the Appointments to the Board are the supplemented by a series of meetings with Chairmans performance involving discussions responsibility of the full Board, on the senior management and external advisers.
with each other director, a meeting with the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Induction programmes are in place for other non executive director and feedback to On joining the Board, directors receive a formal appointment to the Board, the Audit and the Chairman.
appointment letter, which identifies the time Risk Management Committee and the commitment expected of them.
Re-election director candidate is required to disclose all All directors have access to the advice and significant outside commitments prior to All directors are subject to election at the first services of the Company Secretary.
The appointment and the Board has approved a annual general meeting following their removal and appointment of the Company policy requiring disclosure and approval by the appointment by the Board.
The Companys Secretary is a matter reserved for Board Board of all additional appointments for Articles of Association state that each year one approval and the Board approved the executive or non executive directors.
The terms third of directors should retire by rotation but appointment of the new Company Secretary, and conditions of appointment of non executive that if a director has at the start of the Annual which occurred during 2004.
The Board also directors are available to shareholders for General Meeting been a director for more than obtains advice from professional advisers as inspection at the Groups registered office three years since his last re-appointment, he and when required.
during normal business hours and at the shall retire.
In practice, this means that every Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior director stands for re-election at least once to the meeting and during the meeting.
23 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement on Corporate Governance The Board explains the reasons why it believes receives copies of relevant analysts reports on Remuneration Committee each director should be elected or re-elected in an ad hoc basis.
The role and operation of the Remuneration the Notice of Meeting for the next Annual Committee is set out in the Directors The Board regards the Annual General Meeting General Meeting.
As referred to above, those Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 21. as an important opportunity to communicate directors who held office during the period directly with all shareholders.
Board members, have been subject to formal performance Corporate Responsibility Committee including the chairmen of the Remuneration, evaluation and the Board believes that their Nomination and Audit and Risk Management In the early part of 2005, the Board established performance continues to be effective and to Committees, attended the 2004 meeting and, a Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Details demonstrate commitment to their relevant role.
along with the Chairman of the Corporate of its membership and areas of key focus are Their re-election is also consistent with the Responsibility Committee, intend to attend the set out in the Corporate Responsibility Boards evaluation of the size, structure and forthcoming meeting and will be available to Statement on pages 29 to 32. composition of the Board.
In order that shareholders are aware of the other shareholders voting Internal control intentions, the details of proxy votes will be Remuneration The Board has overall responsibility for the announced at the Annual General Meeting and The Directors Remuneration Report is set out Groups internal control systems and for will be made available on the Groups website on pages 16 to 21. monitoring their effectiveness.
The website will also directors and senior management are contain a copy of the Notice of Meeting and responsible for the implementation and explanatory notes.
A separate resolution will be Relations with shareholders maintenance of the internal control systems, proposed on each substantially separate issue.
The Board remains committed to maintaining which are subject to periodic review that is The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is good relationships with both institutional and documented.
The Internal Audit department posted to shareholders with the Annual Report private shareholders.
There continues to be a maintains a database recording the system of and Accounts at least twenty working days regular dialogue with institutional internal controls in every division or prior to the date of the meeting.
shareholders, although care is exercised to department throughout the Group.
ensure that any price-sensitive information is The Board monitors the ongoing process by Board Committees released at the same time to all shareholders, which critical risks to the business are in accordance with the requirements of the UK The Remuneration Committee, the Nomination identified, evaluated and managed.
Slide presentations provided Committee, the Audit and Risk Management is consistent with the Turnbull Guidance on to institutional shareholders and analysts Committee and, since January 2005, the Internal Control and has been in place for the following the publication of the Groups Corporate Responsibility Committee, are period under review and up to the date of preliminary and interim results are made standing committees of the Board.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
available on the Groups investor relations The terms of reference of the Committees, website, www.
co. uk, and a Each year the Board assesses the effectiveness including their objectives and the authority recording of the results presentations can be of the Groups system of internal controls delegated to them by the Board, are available accessed via telephone for a period following including financial, operational and upon request or via the Groups investor the meeting.
compliance controls and risk management relations website www.
co. uk systems on the basis of: The Chairman is available to discuss strategy and are reviewed at least annually by the and governance issues with shareholders and relevant committee and the Board.
All Established procedures, including those Mr Gibson, as the Senior Independent Non committees have access to independent expert already described, which are in place to Executive Director, is available to shareholders advice.
Appointments to Board committees are manage perceived risks: if they have concerns that have not, or cannot, for three-year terms extendable by no more Regular reports by management to the Audit be addressed through the Chairman, Chief than two additional three-year terms.
and Risk Management Committee on the Executive or Group Finance Director.
During adequacy and effectiveness of internal the period, the Groups ten largest Audit and Risk Management Committee control systems and significant control shareholders were offered meetings with the The role and operation of the Audit and Risk issues: Chairman and Senior Independent Non Management Committee is set out in its report Executive Director.
The continuous Group-wide process for formally identifying, evaluating and The Group obtains feedback from its broker, managing the significant risks to the Citigroup, on the views of institutional investors Nomination Committee achievement of the Groups objectives: and on a non-attributed basis and the Chief The role and operation of the Nomination Executive and Group Finance Director Committee is set out in its report on page 28.
Presentations to the Audit and Risk communicate the issues and concerns of major Management Committee on the results of shareholders to the Board.
As a matter of internal audits and work undertaken by routine, the Board receives a monthly report other departments.
from Citigroup on issues relating to recent share price performance, trading activity and institutional investor sentiment.
The Board also 24 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement on Corporate Governance The Groups internal control systems are Internal Audits work is focused on areas of designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the greatest risk to the Group, as determined by a risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, structured risk assessment process involving and can only provide reasonable, and not executive directors and senior management.
absolute, assurance against material The output from this process is summarised in misstatement or loss.
In assessing what an annual audit plan, which is approved by the constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board Audit and Risk Management Committee.
The considers the materiality of financial and Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the non-financial risks and the relationship Group Finance Director and the Audit and Risk between the cost of, and benefit from, internal Management Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit department and The Board regularly reviews the actual and the scope of its work continue to evolve to take forecast performance of the business compared account of changes within the business and with the annual plan, as well as other key emerging best practice.
Going concern Lines of responsibility and delegated The directors have prepared the financial authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups statements on a going concern basis consistent policies and procedures are regularly updated with their view, formed after making and distributed throughout the Group.
The appropriate enquiries, that the Group is Audit and Risk Management Committee operationally and financially robust.
receives reports on a regular basis on compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Assessment of risk A corporate risk matrix has been developed and is approved annually by the Audit and Risk Management Committee and the Board.
The matrix records the key risks facing the business, the assessment of the likelihood of the risks crystallising and their potential materiality, and the Groups response to each risk.
The matrix is reviewed and updated at regular intervals.
Responsibility for management of the risks is attributed typically to senior management.
The Board uses the control and risk management processes to identify and manage any significant risks arising from social, environmental and ethical issues.
Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility practices are described on pages 29 to 32.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which systems of internal control are effective: are adequate to manage the Groups significant risks: safeguard the Groups assets: and in conjunction with the Company Secretary and General Counsel, ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior management.
