46 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee Compliance with the Combined Code Performance evaluations have been carried out for each member of The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance the Board.
Executive Directors performance has been assessed by throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys the Chairman and Mr Banks, Mr Banks performance by the Chairman shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the and the Non Executive Directors, the Chairmans performance by the Board applies the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Non Executive Directors and Mr Banks and the Non Executive Directors Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority performance by Mr Banks and the Chairman.
In line with the Revised and the Revised Combined Code Revised Code that has applied to the Code, the Executive Directors are now encouraged to take on not more Company with effect from 1 August 2004. than one non executive position on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain payments received in respect of the appointment.
In order The Board to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards As at 31 July 2004, the Board of Directors was made up of 12 members approval.
Succession planning is considered to be a matter for the whole comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors and five Non Executive Board rather than for a committee.
The Non Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could The Companys articles of association provide that one third of the materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will seek Board considers that each of the Non Executive Directors brings his own re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
Additionally, senior level of experience, gained in their own fields of mainly international new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity operations.
Nigel Stein was appointed as a Non Executive Director with after their appointment.
It is Board policy that Non Executive Directors are effect from 1 December 2003 and Andrew Duff was appointed as a Non normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2004.
John Allan left the Board and extended for a further three-year period.
It is also Board policy that on 19 March 2004.
At the date of this report there remain 12 members of Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the Board for the Board and biographical details of the Directors are shown on pages 36 more than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to exceed and 37.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and this period, the Director concerned will retire annually and offer himself the remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive Directors is for re-election.
Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and detailed in the remuneration report on pages 52 to 57. tailored induction is offered to all Non Executive Directors, supplemented by visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc of the executive committee and other key senior executives.
Board papers basis, as required by time critical business needs.
The Board has a formal and other information are delivered at times to allow Directors to be schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, although its primary role properly briefed in advance of meetings.
is to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
Day-to-day operational decisions are delegated to the executive committee Although the Non Executive Directors are not asked, at present, to meet referred to on page 48.
The Board met eight times during the year and the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 48. the annual results is encouraged.
The Chairman ensures that the Board The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed necessary, maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties and has secured appropriate insurance cover Following the appointment of Nigel Stein on 1 December 2003 and for the Directors.
This is in addition to the access that every Director Andrew Duff on 1 July 2004, the Board comprises five independent has to the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board Non Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, within the definition procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and set out in the Revised Code.
The Board recognises that, whilst the number compliance is implemented within the Group.
The differing roles of of such Directors remains less than half the members of the Board, Chairman and Group Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out the overall balance of Directors remains under review.
Gareth Davis was in writing.
The Chairman has confirmed that he would not chair any appointed as the Companys senior independent Non Executive Director other major companys Board.
The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the Board as The formal terms of reference for the main Board committees, approved a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team and assists by the Board and complying with the Revised Code to assist in the in the development of individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
During the discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and year, the Board again reviewed its effectiveness and that of its committees can also be found on the Companys website at www.
and the quality of Board processes utilising both a questionnaire and Membership of the various committees is shown on page 91.
Mr Whybrow discussion with Board members.
A number of actions were agreed as ceased to be a member of both the audit and remuneration committees a result of the review.
A further evaluation will be carried out during the with effect from 1 July 2004.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary next year.
Meetings between the Non Executive Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chairman and Mr Banks, are now scheduled in the Boards annual timetable.
The Board has also arranged to hold two Board Jacques Descours left the Board on 7 October 2004.
At such date there meetings each year at divisional locations to help all Board members gain were 11 members of the Board comprising five Executive Directors and a deeper understanding of the business.
five Non Executive Directors in addition to the Chairman.
47 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Nominations committee The Chairman of the audit committee attends the Annual General Meeting The nominations committee meets on an as needed basis and is to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the comprised of Mr Whybrow Chairman, Mr Banks, Mr Davis, Mr Duff and committees activities.
The remuneration of the members of the committee Mr Walker.
Mr Whybrow would not chair the committee when it considers is set out on page 53 and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the appointment of a successor chairman.
The committee reviews the Non Executive Directors is set out on page 57. structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered The committee is required to assist the Board to fulfill their responsibilities necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new Directors and related to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
the continuation of existing Directors in office.
The committee retains external During the year, the committee reviewed the interim and annual financial search consultants as appropriate.
The committee also advises the Board statements, together with the associated interim and preliminary on succession planning for executive board appointments although the announcements made to the London and New York Stock Exchanges Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The committee met and the Form 20-F, which is filed with the Securities and Exchange once during the year and all members of the committee in office at that Commission in the USA, having received the appropriate information time attended the meeting.
on the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the accounts: changes proposed to those principles: Audit committee policies and practices: significant accounting issues: litigation and The audit committee comprises Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray who chairs contingent liabilities and tax matters, including contingencies against the committee.
Mr Whybrow ceased to be a member of the committee tax liabilities together with compliance with statutory tax obligations.
The committees membership is reviewed by the nominations committee and by Mr Murray at regular intervals.
Members of The committee is also responsible for the development, implementation the committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations by and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit.
The committee the nominations committee.
The committee is normally comprised of three reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, independent Non Executive Directors.
objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
The committee recommends the appointment and reappointment of the Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience from Companys external auditors.
The committee reviews the scope, results senior executive levels.
The expertise and experience of the members of the including schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters and committee are summarised on pages 36 and 37.
The Board considers that cost effectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors remuneration and each member of the committee is independent within the definition set out performance.
The committee also ensures that key partners within the in the Revised Code.
Mr Stein is considered to have significant, recent and external auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with both relevant financial experience, as he is currently Finance Director of GKN plc.
It also monitors the extent of non-audit work which the external auditors can perform, to ensure that the provision of those nonAll members of the committee receive appropriate induction, which is in audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditors falls within addition to the induction which all new Directors receive and includes an the agreed policy and does not impair their objectivity or independence.
overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
Audit committee The policy requires pre-confirmation by the committee of any non-audit members are expected to have an understanding of the following areas work subject to fide minimis levels.
The external auditors provide audit the principles of, contents of, and developments in, financial reporting, related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as including the applicable accounting standards and statements of formalities relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external auditors recommended practice: key aspects of the Companys approach, report to the committee any material departures from Group accounting including corporate policies: Company financing: systems of internal policies and procedures that they identify during the course of their audit control: matters that require the use of judgement in the presentation of work.
Within the constraints of applicable US and UK rules, the external accounts and key figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
auditors undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax Members of the committee undertake ongoing training as required.
matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and the agreed The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda is policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the best-placed linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The agenda is mostly adviser is retained.
During the year the committee reviewed the cyclical such that the committee Chairman approves the agenda on behalf effectiveness of the external auditors and considered whether the agreed of all members of the committee: each member of the committee may plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The committee also considered the external auditors robustness and the Members attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out degree to which the external auditors were able to assess key accounting in the table on page 48. and audit judgements and the context of the management letter.
The committee also reviewed the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of The committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter: the overall Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the associated fee together with senior representatives of the external auditors to attend each proposal: any major issues which arose during the course of the audit and meeting although it reserves part of each meeting for discussions without their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of errors the invitees being present.
Other senior management are invited to present identified during the audit: the recommendations made to management such reports as are required for the committee to discharge its duties.
by the auditors and managements response.
48 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued The committee also reviews the Groups internal audit function and its Executive committee relationship with the external auditors, including internal audit plans and The Executive Directors of the Company together with Mr Barden, who performance.
The committee reviewed the internal audit functions terms has been responsible for Wolseley UK Limited since 1 August 2003, meet of reference, reporting lines and access to the committee, its plans at least eight times each year, often on the day before formal Board and its achievements against plans.
The committee plans to review the meetings.
The committee addresses operational business issues and effectiveness of the internal audit function before the end of 2004, by shares best practice, thereby allowing the Directors more time at Board which time it will have been operating for some 18 months.
The committee meetings to focus on strategy.
considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response to Treasury committee matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
The committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Treasurer The committee oversaw the development of the internal audit function and the Group Finance Director, who acts as its Chairman.
Its role is to during the year and the need to continue to outsource to KPMG LLP consider treasury policy, tax matters and certain transactions on behalf some elements of internal audits work to assist during the initial phases of the Group within a framework delegated by the Board.
The committee has also monitored the policy which it approved on the recruitment of staff from both the external Meetings attendance auditors and from KPMG LLP.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, audit, remuneration and nominations committees during the year: The committee also reviews, where practicable, all proposed Audit Remuneration Nominations announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that they Board committee committee committee contain material financial information.
It also reviews disclosures made by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certification Number of meetings 8 4 5 1 process for the Form 20-F concerning the design and operation of internal 1 J Allan 43 3 controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud C A Banks 8 1 involving management or other employees involved in the Groups financial 2 G Davis 84 2 controls.
The committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the J R Descours 7 Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, 3 A J Duff 1 1 risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as the F N Hord 7 Companys statements on internal controls before they are agreed by the C S Hornsby 7 Board for each years annual report.
The Board retains overall responsibility G Legtmann 7 for internal control and the identification and management of business risk.
J I K Murray 84 4 The Companys whistleblowing policy which is an extension of the GroupN M Stein 4 wide Code of Ethics sets out arrangements for the Company Secretary R M Walker 8 5 1 to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal S P Webster 7 controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, 5 J W Whybrow 8 4 4 1 be reported to the committee.
A copy of the Code of Ethics is available Chairman on the Companys website at www.
Stepped down from the Board and the audit and remuneration committees on 19 March 2004.
Mr Allan had attended every audit and remuneration committee meeting held from 1 August 2003 until During the year the committee reviewed its terms of reference and 19 March 2004 and all but one Board meeting between those dates.
its effectiveness, which was achieved through the completion of a 2.
Appointed to the remuneration committee on 19 March 2004.
Mr Davis attended all of the meetings of the remuneration committee held between 19 March 2004 and 31 July 2004. questionnaire by its members and the external auditors, the results 3.
Appointed as a Director on 1 July 2004 and to both the remuneration and nominations committees on the same date.
Mr Duff attended all of the Board and remuneration committee meetings held between of which were discussed by members of the committee.
The nominations committee has not met since 1 July 2004.
Appointed as a Director on 1 December 2003 and to the audit committee on 19 March 2004.
Mr Stein attended all but one of the Board meetings held between 1 December 2003 and 31 July 2004 but was Remuneration committee unable to attend the only audit committee meeting held between 19 March 2004 and 31 July 2004.
The committee comprises Messrs Davis, Duff and Walker who chairs 5.
Resigned as a member of the audit and remuneration committees on 1 July 2004.
Mr Whybrow attended each meeting of the audit and remuneration committees held between 1 August 2003 and 1 July 2004. the committee, all of whom are independent within the definition set out in the Revised Code.
Mr Whybrow ceased to be a member of Internal audit the committee from 1 July 2004.
The committee met five times during The discrete internal audit function, which was established within the the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table Group during 2003, continued to expand its scope of work and to recruit below.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations further members during the year.
The Head of Internal Audit is based at on remuneration to the Board.
The Boards remuneration report is set the Companys head office in Theale.
The internal audit function is involved out on pages 52 to 57.
During the year, the committee reviewed its terms in the assessment of the quality of risk management and internal control of reference and submitted modifications to the Board for its approval.
and helps to promote effective risk management within the businesses.
Copies of the revised terms of reference are available from the Company Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist Secretary or on the Companys website at www.
The expertise continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal Audit to Chairman of the remuneration committee attends the Annual General KPMG LLP as required.
The audit committee reviews internal audit reports.
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
49 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Internal control Control processes In a highly decentralised Group, where local management has The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis, considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light of these.
designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard shareholders Control is exercised at both Group and subsidiary Board level through investment and the Companys assets.
The Directors acknowledge that monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts they have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group companies by the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Group companies approve set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors and submit risk reports to the audit committee, summarising the key risks on the Combined Code, an ongoing process had been established for facing their businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks.
identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This These reports, together with reports on internal control and departures, process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on if any, from established Group procedures prepared by the external which the financial statements were approved.
The systems are designed auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the audit to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups committee.
Group companies submit annual risk and internal control objectives, safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, fairly report representation letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control the Groups performance and position and to ensure compliance with and risk management issues, with comments on the control environment relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to within their operations.
The Group Finance Director summarises these social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, submissions for the audit committee and the Chairman of the audit not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Such committee reports to the Board on any matters which have arisen from the systems are regularly reviewed by the Board to deal with changing committees review of the way in which the risk management and internal circumstances.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups control processes have been applied.
The Board has formal procedures in business is given on pages 33 and 34.
Risk assessment and evaluation place which were reviewed during the year for the approval of investment is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, supported by the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and major internal control.
As part of this review, each business area and function capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical has been required to identify and document each significant risk, together matters in relation to the Groups businesses and assesses these when with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, monitor and report reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the to management on the effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers effect such matters may have on the short and long-term value of the are also required to sign bi-annual confirmations of compliance with Company.
The external auditors of the Company and the Head of Internal key procedures and to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, Audit attend audit committee meetings and receive its papers.
Summarised results have been presented to senior of the audit committee is set out on page 47 and the audit committee management and to the audit committee.
The Board has reviewed the members regularly meet the external auditors without the presence of effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year under executive management.
A summary of the principal control structures and processes in place across the Group is set out below.
As noted on page 44, the Company has entered into a level II American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York and has Control structures securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal the Commission.
The Company is required to comply with applicable control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated responsibility US regulations including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, insofar as it applies for the internal control and risk management programme to the Group to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with the Commissions Finance Director.
The detailed review of internal control and risk recommendations, the Company has established a disclosure committee management has been delegated to the audit committee.
The comprising the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group management of each Group company is responsible for internal control Financial Controller and the Group Company Secretary and Counsel.
and risk management within its own business, and for ensuring The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have evaluated compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each Group the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as of company has appointed a risk Director whose primary role in such 31 July 2004 and have concluded that, at that date, the disclosure controls capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information relating risk management and internal control programme.
Both the internal and to the Group was made known to them during the period in which this external auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the report was being prepared.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these Director will also provide the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley internal control requirements.
Act when the Form 20-F for 2004 is filed.
There were no significant changes in the Groups disclosure controls and procedures or in other factors that could significantly affect those controls subsequent to the date that the evaluation was completed.
50 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued Compliance statement There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has been The Company applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined extended to include private shareholders through the Annual General Code for the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied Meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives.
Contact is also with the detailed provisions set out therein with the following exceptions: maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups preliminary and interim Following the introduction of a new Directors bonus scheme in 2000, results, as well as all announcements issued to the London and the pensionable salary of one Executive Director includes his bonus New York Stock Exchanges, are published on the Companys website, capped at a fixed amount.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies of presentations to analysts and Mr Davis was appointed as the senior independent Non Executive interviews with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, Director with effect from 1 July 2004. are also posted on the website.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to meeting.
It is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for its review General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions to by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
the Board and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the audit, No such report has been made.
nominations and remuneration committees available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will be New York Stock Exchange made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on each Corporate governance requirements resolution on a show of hands.
The results will also be announced to Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the measures set by the London and New York Stock Exchanges and are published on the the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. to strengthen corporate Companys website shortly after the meeting.
accountability as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply in all material respects with those standards.
Those standards state that companies Donations should have a nominating corporate governance committee composed The Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on pages entirely of independent Directors with written terms of reference, which 39 to 43.
The Groups charitable donations in 2004 totalled 3,839,000 develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance 2003: 838,000.
The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act principles for the Company.
Details of the Companys nominations 2000 defines EU political organisations widely, and whose activities may committee are set out on page 47.
The nominations committee does form part of normal relationships between companies and the political not develop corporate governance principles for the Board to approve.
machinery, even though such activities are not designed to affect public The Board itself approves the Groups overall system of internal controls, support for a particular party or influence support for any party.
The Group governance and authority limits.
A majority of the members of the made no political donations in 2004 2003: nil and does not make what nominations committee are independent Non Executive Directors and all are commonly regarded as political donations.
The Group will continue this such Directors sit on the Board.
The Companys practice, in accordance policy.
The Group may, however, need as part of its business to contact with the UK Companies Act and Combined Code in relation to the politicians and political parties within the EU on a non-partisan basis in appointment and termination of the external auditors, is that a order to make them aware of industry views, technology and trends.
In the recommendation is made by the audit committee to the Board, which UK, employees may serve as local councillors who are permitted time off will then make a recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
The definitions of political donations and EU political This differs from the procedure in the USA, where the external auditors are expenditure have been drafted so broadly that some such activities may accountable to the audit committee, which has the authority to appoint or fall within the Act, even though they are not donations in the ordinary dismiss the external auditors without reference to shareholders.
The Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before such expenditure or donations in excess of certain limits Communications with shareholders may be made.
The Directors, therefore, propose on a precautionary basis, The Company places considerable importance on communication with to once more seek authority for the Group to make donations and incur its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Group Chief expenditure, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor incurring under the terms of the Act.
Among other things, the Act requires relations and a senior executive has day-to-day responsibility for such that this authorising resolution should not purport to authorise particular matters.
The views of our major shareholders are reported to the Board donations or expenditure and requires any donations to EU political by the Group Finance Director and by the Chairman and discussed organisations or any EU political expenditure in excess of 200 to be at its meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors consider shareholders either in paper form or electronically, and can be accessed that the authority sought under the resolution to allow the Company or its via the Companys website or via Shareview, an Internet service offered subsidiaries to incur this type of expenditure of not more than 125,000 in by the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, detailed on page 92. total until the Companys next Annual General Meeting is necessary to ensure that, because of the uncertainty over which bodies are covered, the Company does not unintentionally breach the Act.
The policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political party will continue.
The authority sought by Resolution 15 will last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
51 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Awards under employee share schemes Creditor payment policy Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan in March All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and conditions 2004 to 6,944 US-based employees 2003: 2,596 and 953 Canadian-based of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups policy that payments to employees 2003: 616 in respect of a maximum of 2,986,840 ordinary suppliers are made within agreed terms and, where applicable, consistent shares 2003: 2,260,153 exercisable at 698.28 pence per share.
Options with the UK CBI Prompt Payers Code.
Copies of this Code can be were granted under the UK Employees Savings Related Share Option obtained from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered Scheme in June 2004 to 2,448 employees 2003: 2,256 in respect of office.
At 31 July 2004 the Company had no trade creditors 2003: nil.
a maximum of 738,662 ordinary shares 2003: 1,249,020 exercisable The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2004 was at 657 pence per share.
Options were granted under the Irish Sharesave equivalent to 52 days 2003: 57 days of trade purchases.
Scheme in June 2004 to 101 employees 2003: 88 in respect of a maximum of 43,875 ordinary shares 2003: 76,677 exercisable at Shareholder services 657 pence per share.
In November 2003 options were granted under Shareview is a service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, the new Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 over 3,570,423 ordinary which allows shareholders on-line access to a range of shareholder shares 2003: 173,016 and 2,786,484 under the Wolseley 1984 and information.
Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings in the 1989 Executive Share Option Plans respectively to senior employees Company and practical help on transferring shares or updating personal of the Group at an option price of 743 pence per share.
It also allows shareholders to choose to receive shareholder are described in more detail on pages 55 and 56.
Details of the total communications electronically, rather than by post.
To register, options outstanding at 31 July 2004 are set out in note 20 to the financial shareholders simply need to log on to www.
co. uk with their statements.
Details of the cash awards under the 2001 Long Term shareholder reference number, which is shown on the form of proxy sent Performance Related Incentive Scheme for Mr Banks and the to all shareholders.
First time users will need to enter certain information Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme are set out on page 53. and choose a PIN number before they are able to access their shareholding details.
Employee policies and involvement The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its Shareview dealing is also available to UK-based shareholders.
This is a employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins, simple and convenient telephone and Internet share purchase and sale such as Directions and other in-house publications, meetings and the service offered by the registrars.
For telephone purchases and sales call Companys internal website, on matters affecting them as employees 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
For and on the issues affecting their performance.
A European Works Council Internet purchases and sales, log on to www.
has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for dialogue and A postal dealing service is also available from Lloyds TSB Registrars consultation with employees on significant developments in the Groups and a form, together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational changes calling 0870 242 4244. within the Group and for employee representatives to consult management about concerns over any aspect of the Groups operations.
At the date of CREST this report, there are 21 members comprising 15 employee representatives The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system nominated from among employees from each European company.
Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys pension arrangements including the defined benefit pension scheme, Auditors which has one corporate and two individual trustees.
The Chairman  LLP are willing to continue as auditors of of the trustees is David Tucker and, save for an independent trustee, the Company and Resolution 9 concerning their re-appointment and all of the other trustees are UK-based employees or former employees Resolution 10 concerning the determination of their remuneration are of the Group.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
membership of their employing companies pension arrangements.
Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local Annual General Meeting resolutions environment, such as private medical cover.
Employees are encouraged The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held to become shareholders in the Company, where possible, through on 18 November 2004, together with explanatory notes, appear in the participation in the Companys share schemes.
Priority is given to the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all training of employees, and the development of their skills is of prime registered shareholders and which is also available on our website at importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with www.
regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the function required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a highly decentralised basis.
This provides the maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced On behalf of the Board by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Mark J White Local managements are responsible for maintaining high standards of Group Company Secretary and Counsel health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision-making.
