a Brand Check review of each of the business operations, incorporating a risk monitor, providing feedback on the How we behave business risks and details of any change in the risk prole since the last Board meeting.
Directors report The Brand Check covers such issues as: changes in political security: the possibility of the loss of major business e. g. a change of senior management of a major client : introduction of new legislation in an important market: loss of a key executive of the Group: change in accounting or corporate governance practice.
Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly procedures and day-to-day management activities to review Internal control their operations and business risks.
These are formally communicated to the Group chief executive and other WPP operates a system of internal control, which is executive directors and senior executives in quarterly maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as The Board is rmly of the opinion that the monitoring of Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 as risk has always been and continues to be strongly embedded they currently apply to the Company.
In the opinion of the in the culture of the Company and of the operating Board, the Company has complied throughout the year with companies, in a manner which the Board considers goes the Turnbull Report and has also complied with the relevant beyond the Turnbull recommendations and the requirements provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. of Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
The Board which receives advice from the Audit committee has overall responsibility for the system of Control activities and monitoring internal control and risk management in the Group and has Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year.
In out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal the context of the scope and complexity of this system, the control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application Board can only give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance of these policies and procedures is monitored within the against material misstatement or loss.
individual businesses and by the Companys director of The principal elements of internal control are Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
Operating companies are required to maintain and update documentation of their internal controls and Control environment processes, which was originally prepared in a detailed The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, Group standard format in prior years.
This documentation ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of the incorporates an analysis of business risks thus continuing Groups system of internal control.
the benets of the regional and selected operating company The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly workshops conducted in the previous year detailed control reviewed by the Audit committee and the Board sets out the activities and monitoring, together with controls over principal obligations of all employees.
Directors and senior security of data and the provision of timely and reliable executives throughout the Group are required each year to information to management.
certify their compliance with this Code.
The WPP Policy The internal audit department carried out verication Book which is regularly updated includes the Code and and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls human resource practices as well as guidance on required for a majority of Group companies during 2004, the results practices in many operational areas.
Breaches or alleged of which were reported to the Audit committee.
breaches of the Code are investigated urgently by the director of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
Financial reporting Furthermore, the Group has an independently operated Each operating company annually updates a three-year helpline, Right to Speak, for the reporting of issues that strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
employees feel unable to raise locally.
A number of issues These are reviewed by the parent companys management have been raised during 2004 through this helpline, all of and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant which have been investigated.
The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the Risk assessment development of operating company budgets which build Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets executive, the chairman of the Audit committee and the for the following year for review by the parent company.
Board, as it is essential to the creation and protection of The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being share owner value and the development of the careers of adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported our people.
The Board realises that WPP is a service monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally company and its ongoing prosperity depends on being able by the business groups and by Group management on a to continue to provide a quality service to its existing and consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results potential clients in a creative, efficient and economic way.
are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive presents forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
