Philip Lader chairman of the Company and Directors report chairman of the Nomination committee Dear share owner This year the Directors report includes reviews Amidst the trans-Atlantic proliferation of corporate governance initiatives, WPP has sought to continue to from the chairmen of three Board committees: demonstrate the leadership and accountability that have Philip Lader as chairman of the Company and its warranted the confidence of our share owners, clients, Nomination committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman employees, suppliers and local communities.
Our goal is always to comply fully with all relevant of the Audit committee, and Bud Morten, chairman laws and regulations, including the Combined Code and of the Compensation committee.
It also contains the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and, as far as may an analysis of the Companys compliance with be prudent, with guidelines and standards promulgated by Hermes, the Association of British Insurers ABI, the statutory and regulatory requirements.
National Association of Pension Funds NAPF, Pensions Investment Research Consultants PIRC, NASDAQ, and other corporate governance advocates.
Because such guidelines and standards continue to evolve and are sometimes contradictory, they are occasionally considered by the Board not to be necessarily in the best interests of our share owners and full and immediate compliance is not always possible.
Be assured that the Board carefully reviews all such guidelines as to both cost and benefit to share owners and we shall not compromise the essence of these standards.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, WPP has been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except that between 1 October 2004 and 29 April 2005 the membership of the Audit committee consisted of only two independent non-executive directors.
This has now been remedied with the appointment of Jeffrey Rosen to the committee.
For Board membership we have also continued to seek individuals whose expertise and perspectives are commensurate with the Companys responsibilities, opportunities and challenges.
To that end, in 2004 Ms Orit Gadiesh, chair of the eminent global strategic consulting rm Bain & Company, and Paul Spencer, a highly experienced former finance director of multinational companies, joined us as nonexecutive directors, and Paul is now chairman of the Audit committee.
This year, we are pleased to welcome as additional non-executive directors, Mrs Lubna Olayan, chair of a major holding company with diversied interests around the world, and Jeffrey Rosen, deputy chairman of Lazard, who brings his extensive international financial experience to the Audit committee.
In addition, Mark Read, who has played an instrumental role in the Companys strategic planning and global new-business assignments, has been appointed as an executive director.
Long-term directors Jeremy Bullmore and John Jackson retired from the Board in September 2004.
My colleagues WPP Annual Report 2004 89 The Board also believes that independence should not, by denition, be denied a non-executive chairman How we behave with no other ties to the company.
Accordingly, my status has been determined to be that of an independent director, Directors report thereby complying with the provision of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
During 2004, the non-executive directors met once without any executive directors or ofcers of the Company being present and once without my presence.
The executive directors met once with senior executives of the Groups operating companies to review WPPs strategies.
Observations from all these meetings were discussed in detail with the full Board, and recommendations were and I are deeply indebted to them for their major unanimously approved.
contributions over many years, and the Company will Serving on WPPs Board is a privilege one that is continue to benefit from their experience and judgement increasingly demanding, given new regulatory and as founding members of our new Advisory Board.
We are governance requirements and the comprehensive range of also grateful for the Board service of Michael Jordan, who communications services performed by the Groups 84,000 retired from the Board last year to accommodate his people in 106 countries for some of the worlds most growing responsibilities as the chief executive officer successful, and most demanding, clients.
express my appreciation to my colleagues who continue to The Nomination committee nds it beneficial, at this serve our Company so well.
stage, to be comprised of both executive and non-executive members, though certain US regulatory guidelines provide Philip Lader otherwise.
This past year, the members of the Nomination 10 May 2005 committee, including Bud Morten, Christopher Mackenzie, Beth Axelrod, Sir Martin Sorrell and I, met formally on three occasions and periodically on an ad hoc basis.
These meetings resulted in detailed consideration of the Boards composition and effectiveness including new appointments, expansion of the pool of director candidates, succession planning for the Board, its committees and senior executives in both the parent and operating companies, and formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
The performance evaluation by the Board consisted of each directors response to a detailed questionnaire, individual discussions by each director with me on this subject, and a meeting of non-executive directors to evaluate the chairmans performance.
Assisted by the Senior independent director, Bud Morten, I reported to the full Board on this assessment, and as a result, certain changes to the Board processes were implemented to improve its effectiveness.
On one corporate governance matter the denition of independence for directors the Board takes issue with some guidelines which assume that individuals who have served for more than nine years should no longer be viewed as independent.
We rmly believe that corporations need directors of character and integrity, but their independence should not be measured in terms of Board tenure.
This particularly far-ung and complicated family of businesses benets signicantly from the in-depth understanding that comes to non-executive directors principally from longer-term service.
WPP has benefited enormously, for example, from the contributions of Bud Morten, a non-executive director for 13 years, who continues to demonstrate the independence, personal qualities, professional standards, and institutional knowledge that serve our share owners best interests.
This is why Bud has continued as chairman of the Compensation committee and, though he may step down from that role this year, we hope he will agree to continue as the Companys Senior independent director.
