The Board of Directors In line with best practice under the Combined Code, directors who have held ofce for more than nine years now The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the submit themselves for re-election by share owners every year.
success of the Company by directing and supervising the The Board recommends that share owners vote in favour Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share of the Resolutions to elect and re-elect these directors and set owners for the Groups financial and operational out their reasons for this recommendation in the Appendix performance.
Responsibility for the development and to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
implementation of Group policy and strategy and for dayto-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Committee meetings Group chief executive and other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of the chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of committees of the Board during 2004 was as follows: the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, Nomination AuditCompensation continued to be responsible for the development and committee committee committee implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-toPhilip Lader 3 4 6 day operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current Bud Morten 3 6 6 Board members appear on pages 85 to 86.
Christopher Mackenzie 2 n a 5 All directors are fully briefed on important developments 1 John Jackson n a 4 n a in the various business activities which the Group carries out 2 Paul Spencer n a 5 n a worldwide and regularly receive extensive information Notes 1 concerning the Groups operations, nances, risk factors and Retired 30 September 2004 2 Appointed May 2004 its people, enabling them to full their duties and obligations as directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the During 2004, the committee for Corporate Responsibility, Groups businesses on a global basis, but particularly in the which is chaired by Howard Paster and also comprises US and the UK.
executives of the parent company met three times on a During 2004, the Board met eight times formally and held formal basis.
Their report for 2004 commences on page 97. a number of ad hoc meetings throughout the year.
With the The Disclosure committee is comprised of senior exception of Michael Jordan, Orit Gadiesh and Christopher executives in the parent company, namely Group financial Mackenzie each absent for one meeting, there was full reporting, internal audit, legal, tax, human resource and attendance at all formal meetings of the Board during 2004. investor relations departments.
The purpose of the Following the Annual General Meeting, the Board will Disclosure committee is to add further assurance to the consist of 15 directors of whom four are executive and 10 content of all public statements including the annual plus the chairman who are non-executive.
As explained in report and accounts and, during 2004, it met six times.
the chairmans review, the Board considers that eight of the 10 non-executive directors, in addition to the chairman, Share owner relations are independent.
A further non-executive director will be appointed shortly.
Relations with share owners, potential share owners The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set and investment analysts are given the highest priority out on page 112 and details of their fees on page 111. by the Company.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the The Company has a well-developed continuous program Companys pension plans, share option or other to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions incentive plans, but may receive a part of their fees and analysts for a regular ow of information about the in ordinary shares of the Company.
Company, its strategy, performance and competitive The Board considers that the non-executive directors position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the remuneration conforms with the requirements of the Companys current and potential share owners, this program Combined Code.
includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Group The fees payable to non-executive directors represent chief executive and the Group finance director, in the UK, compensation in connection with Board and Board Continental Europe and the major financial centres in North committee meetings, and where appropriate for devoting America together with a more limited program in Asia additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group Pacic.
The Company also provides a quarterly trading in a wider capacity.
update at the end of the first and third quarters and at the Details of directors remuneration and service contracts Annual General Meeting currently held in June each year form part of the report of the Compensation committee in addition to semi-annual reporting required in the UK.
During 2004, Bud Morten in his capacity as chairman of The following directors offer themselves for election and the Compensation committee met with a number of share re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: owners and their representative bodies to discuss the Appointed since the last Annual General Meeting introduction of Renewed LEAP and Philip Lader has also Lubna Olayan, Jeffrey Rosen and Mark Read.
met with some of the principal share owners during the year.
Retiring by rotation Sir Martin Sorrell.
The Company maintains a website www.
com Directors for more than nine years Bud Morten providing investors with a regular source of information.
14 years and John Quelch 17 years.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by share owners at least every three years.
