Corporate governance report The Company is committed to the principles of good corporate The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate during the year.
Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board The Board undertook a complete review of its corporate governance procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
framework following the publication of the new Combined Code There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent in July 2003 the new Combined Code to ensure that it could professional advice, paid for by the Group.
continue to uphold the principles of good governance to enable it to fulfil the Groups corporate responsibilities and achieve its In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third financial objectives.
of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
In addition, all those appointed during the year will stand for re-election at the This report sets out the Companys compliance with both the next General Meeting, ensuring that each Board Member faces current and the new Combined Codes.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Chairman The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 Michael Jeffries, the Chairman, normally spends two days per week of the June 1998 Combined Code and the provisions of the new on the business of the Group.
His other significant commitments Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 except are disclosed in his biography on page 28.
The Board considers that for the period until 1 October 2003 when the roles of Chairman these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his and Chief Executive were temporarily combined as an interim responsibilities to the Company effectively.
measure pending the appointment of Keith Clarke.
In addition, following the retirement of Frances Heaton on 16 September 2003 Committees of the Board and prior to the appointment of Lord Boyce and Sir Peter Williams The Boards Committees meet regularly to enable them to discharge as Non-Executive Directors on 5 May 2004, the Audit and their responsibilities.
Each Committee has formal Terms of Remuneration Committees temporarily consisted of two Reference which are reviewed annually by the Board.
available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Groups website www.
Following formal decision making Board and Committee structure the Board may, on occasion, delegate authority to a committee Board consisting of any two Directors to facilitate final sign off for a course The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate of action within agreed parameters.
governance, for establishing policies and objectives and for the stewardship of the Groups resources.
It is the Groups policy that Group Executive the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their The Group Executive meets regularly throughout the year, at least roles and responsibilities clearly defined and recorded.
It is responsible for the management of the business and the Board is made up of the Chairman, three Executive Directors is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its members currently comprise and five Non-Executive Directors.
Struan Robertson is the Senior the Group Finance Director, the Managing Directors of the business Independent Director.
The biographies of the Directors as at the units, the Human Resources Director and the Group Company date of this report are given on page 28.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Non-Executive Directors are The respective roles of the Board and Group Executive are discussed independent of management and have no business or other further under Internal control on page 34. relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises James Morley, Struan Robertson The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further and Sir Peter Williams, all independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Directors meet as members of James Morley, a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the relevant Committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved Committee.
Sir Peter Williams was appointed as a member of the specifically to the Board for decision and delegating specific Committee on 5 May 2004.
Frances Heaton was Chairman of the responsibilities to Committees.
Committee until her retirement from the Board on 16 September 2003.
The Board considers all members to have recent and relevant The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes financial experience strategy, the approval of financial statements and shareholder circulars, treasury policy, major capital investments, risk The Committees central functions are to review the scope of the management strategy and acquisitions and disposals.
external audit, to receive direct reports from the external and internal auditors and to review the half yearly and annual financial statements before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and compliance, areas of management judgement and estimates, and the effectiveness of internal control procedures.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 32 The key elements of processes used by the Audit Committee to Remuneration Committee review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include: The Directors Remuneration report on page 36 includes details of discussion with management on risk areas identified by the Remuneration Committee and its work.
management and or the audit process: review of internal and external audit plans: Board and Committee attendance review of significant issues arising from internal and external The following table details the number of Board and Committee audits: and meetings held during the year ending 31 March 2004 and the review of significant Group risks reported by the Group Risk attendance record of each Director.
Board meetings Committee meetings 6 Scheduled Committee Audit Remuneration Nomination The Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys Number of meetings written procedures for responding to the allegations of held in year 12 25 5 8 5 whistleblowers.
4 4 Stephen Billingham 12 21 5 n a 2 The Audit Committees Terms of Reference address the provisions in 1 4 4 Keith Clarke 611 3 3 3 the Combined Code in relation to audit committees and auditors.
4 4 The Board and the Audit Committee monitor the cost effectiveness Michael Jeffries 12 14 4 7 2 of audit and non-audit work performed by the external auditors 2 Frances Heaton 41 3 5 n a and also consider the potential impact, if any, on the corporate 4 5 relationship with the auditors before awarding any non-audit work.
Christopher Kemball 9 n a 1 1 4 The Board and Audit Committee also review the independence 3 Paul Marsh n a n a n a n a n a of the external auditors.
James Morley 10 4 5 6 2 The external auditors continue to operate procedures to safeguard Struan Robertson 12 2 4 8 5 against the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
This includes the use of independent 1 Mr Clarke has attended all Board meetings since being appointed concurring partners, use of a technical review board where as a Director on 1 October 2003. appropriate and annual independence confirmations by all staff.
2 Mrs Heaton retired from the Board on 16 September 2003.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on matters including 3 Mr Marsh resigned from the Board on 10 April 2003.
4 Attendance for parts of the meeting was at the request of the Committee.
independence and non-audit fees on an annual basis.
In addition, 5 Mr Kemball attended the meeting as Mr Morleys alternate.
the role of the audit partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
6 A committee set up by the Board to provide final sign off for a course of action agreed in a scheduled Board meeting.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Jeffries, Lord Boyce, Board performance evaluation and training The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring effectiveness and Christopher Kemball, James Morley, Struan Robertson and Sir Peter Williams.
The Committee is chaired by Michael Jeffries except when evaluating its performance together with that of its Directors and his own succession is being discussed at which time Struan Committees, appointed external consultants to assist in a formal Robertson chairs the Committee as Senior Independent Director.
This evaluation, which in future will be carried Lord Boyce and Sir Peter Williams were appointed as members of out annually, consisted of interviews with and questionnaires of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Group Company the Committee on 5 May 2004.
Frances Heaton was a member of the Committee until her retirement from the Board on 16 September Secretary and selected key Senior Managers.
The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for are being implemented following a full Board appraisal of the appointment to the Board.
The appointments of Lord Boyce and Sir Peter Williams took place following the completion of this evaluation process.
During the year the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors.
Lord Boyce The Non-Executive Directors have met alone to appraise the and Sir Peter Williams were appointed on 5 May 2004.
appointments aim to widen the skill set of the Board.
The Committee used an external search consultancy to assist in making The Company has a continuing professional development framework to assist the Chairman, Executive Directors and Nonrecommendations.
The Committee makes regular appraisals of the processes in place for succession planning in respect of both Board Executive Directors in discharging their responsibilities effectively.
Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with members of the Group Executive and receive regular business updates via scheduled All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time commitment presentations.
These, coupled with site visits, ensure Non-Executive Directors gain first hand experience of developments within the considered necessary to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities prior to appointment.
External training is provided as necessary.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 33 Corporate governance report continued Internal control Control environment The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the The Groups operational structure has clearly documented and adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the communicated principles of delegation of authority and segregation Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and of duties.
The Groups management systems include financial risk management.
It is the role of management to implement the policies and procedures, corporate and business quality assurance agreed policies on risk and control.
manuals, health and safety procedures and environmental management procedures.
These procedures are subject to review The system of internal financial and operational controls is designed to ensure that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
to meet the Groups particular needs and aims to facilitate effective Financial reporting and efficient operations, to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure The Board approves a business plan and annual budgets for proper accounting records are maintained and ensure that the individual business units and the Group.
The financial performance financial information used within the business and for publication of individual business units is reported regularly and compared to is reliable.
The Groups risk management process identifies the key annual budgets.
The Group reports to shareholders on a half-yearly risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how those basis.
Forecasts for the Group are updated and reviewed by the risks are being managed.
Such a system of internal control can only be designed to manage Project and contract control rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives Procedures seek to ensure that risks are identified through the and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against project lifecycle from bidding to completion.
Regular review material misstatement and loss.
procedures are in place to ensure that issues are appropriately reported to the Board.
A Commercial Risk and Audit Framework The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for is in place which requires peer review to be carried out for all identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group significant bids and opportunities or where significant investment and that the process has been in place for the year under review decisions have to be taken.
This process covers subsidiaries in which the Group has an interest of 50% or more.
Joint Ventures in which the Individual business controls Group does not have overall control are not treated, for these Individual businesses and central corporate functions complete an purposes, as part of the Group.
For these Joint Ventures, systems annual self-certification statement.
Responsible managers of internal control are applied as agreed between the parties to the personally confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal control venture.
For Metronet the Board has separately reviewed the risks and their compliance with Group policies.
The statement also faced by the Group.
requires the reporting of any significant control issues that have emerged so that areas of Group concern may be identified, The Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and effectiveness addressed and experience shared.
of the Groups internal controls, which operated during the period covered by the Directors report and financial statements, up to and Functional speciality reporting including the date of approval by the Board.
The Board assesses the risks facing the business on an ongoing basis and has identified a number of key areas which are subject Key features of the system of the Groups internal control are to regular reporting to the Board such as human resources, health as follows: and safety, environment, equity investments and treasury.
Group organisation and culture Risk management review By its statements and actions the Board emphasises a culture of The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group, aided integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
by the Group Risk Committee and detailed reviews of internal controls and risk management.
The Group Risk Management The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior management Framework requires businesses to record formally all significant risks and financial performance.
The Group Executive concentrates on facing their business and detail the steps being taken to avoid or operational performance, operational decision making and the mitigate those risks.
A summary of the key risks facing the Group is formulation of strategic proposals to the Board.
The Managing placed on risk registers which are reviewed regularly by the Board.
Directors of the business units manage their businesses with the support of senior managers.
The Board determines how the Group The Group maintains insurance policies to provide protection from Executive and the individual businesses operate within a framework losses arising through claims from clients.
The adequacy of the of delegated authorities and reserved powers which seek to ensure Groups insurance cover is reviewed by the Board annually.
that certain transactions, significant in terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after high level review.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 34 Internal Audit The Internal Audit function undertakes a programme to address internal control and risk management processes with particular reference to the Turnbull report.
Its conclusions are communicated to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee acting on behalf of the Board.
Investor relations The Board gives communication with all shareholders a high priority.
The Annual and Interim Reports are sent to all shareholders and all shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, which is attended by the full Board.
The Groups website contains information on current activities, including recordings of the Annual and Interim results presentations to City analysts and institutional investors.
The Board welcomes the views of all shareholders.
The Chairman maintains contact with major shareholders and recently wrote to them to set out the Companys commitment to open, on-going dialogue.
Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director will make themselves available for the regular investor meetings held by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director if they are requested to do so.
A wide range of relevant issues are discussed at investor meetings including strategy, performance, management and corporate governance.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the Chairman and the Executive Directors provide reports to them on investor meetings.
The Companys brokers provide briefings to the Board on shareholder opinion and compile independent feedback from investor meetings.
The annual report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review of operations and the Financial review on pages 14 to 27 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and position and will be supported by a presentation to be made at the AGM.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 19 July 2004 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 35
