Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Xansas Board comprises five Executive Directors and Governance Combined Code The Company is committed six Non-executive Directors including the senior Non-executive to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Listing Director and Deputy Chairman, Mr A R F Buxton.
Of the Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to Non-executive Directors, five are independent.
As Chairman, Section 1 of the Combined Code which is appended to the UK Mr Alexander is not considered independent.
Collectively, the Listing Rules, how they have applied its principles and whether Non-executive Directors provide broadly based knowledge they have complied with its provisions through the accounting and experience to the Boards deliberations and are vital for period.
The Company has complied with the requirements corporate accountability.
Biographical details of all the of the UK Listing Authority relating to the provisions of Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Whilst ultimate the Combined Code throughout the accounting period.
responsibility for the Company lies with the Board chaired by The Company has complied with the internal control provisions Mr W J Alexander, executive responsibility for running the by establishing the procedures necessary to implement the Companys business lies with the Chief Executive, who guidance issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee has clearly defined responsibilities and is supported by the report and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
Strategic Board formerly Management Board, details of which A new Combined Code came into effect for UK listed are given below.
companies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November The Board met ten times during the year including 2003.
Although Xansa is not obliged to report on its compliance a one-day off-site session specifically to discuss the with the new Code until the publication of the 2005 annual organisations strategy.
It has a formal schedule of matters report in the summer of 2005, the Board has reviewed its reserved for decisions but otherwise delegates specific procedures with a view to complying with all the detailed responsibilities to Board committees, as described below.
provisions of the new Code during the 2004 2005 financial In 2004 2005, the number of Board meetings will reduce to year.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils seven, supplemented by two, one-day off-site strategy sessions.
request for companies to report early on the steps taken All Directors receive written reports prior to each Board to implement the new Code, this corporate governance meeting which enable them to make an informed decision on statement also provides a description of how the new Code the corporate and business issues under consideration.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are followed and is available to Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for the individual Directors for advice on these procedures.
success of the Company and has a formal schedule of matters The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring reserved for its decision.
Its role is to determine the strategic new Directors receive appropriate training and induction to direction of the Company within a framework of prudent and Xansa.
On joining the Board, a Director undergoes a structured effective controls which enables risks to be assessed and induction programme, including the receipt of a comprehensive managed: to approve annual budgets, financial reporting, major induction pack, which includes background information about acquisitions and disposals and significant capital expenditure, Xansa and its Directors and details of Board procedures, to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are Directors responsibilities and various governance-related issues, in place for the Company to achieve its objectives, and to including procedures for dealing in Xansa shares.
The induction review management performance.
In addition, the Board sets programme includes a series of meetings with members of the the Companys values and standards, including matters relating Strategic Board, presentations from senior executives and a to corporate social responsibility and ensures that its briefing on Xansas investor relations programme.
Ongoing obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and training is provided as and when necessary and may be met.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: identified as part of the annual evaluation process, referred to the acquisition or disposal of a business or of shares in in the Board evaluation section of this statement.
The Company a company Secretary maintains, under review, the suitability of external courses and provides continuous assistance in the ongoing the establishment of a new business or closure of an training and development of Directors, particularly in the areas existing business of legal, regulatory and accounting developments.
the annual budget and strategic plan The mix of skills and business experience of the Non-executive Directors is a major contribution to the proper capital expenditure, IT equipment, finance leases and functioning of the Board, ensuring matters are debated and operating leases over a specified cost that no individual or group dominates the Board decision proposed contracts satisfying specific criteria making process.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specified term normally three years, subject to re-election changes to the organisation structure or and all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the management structure.
first AGM after their appointment.
Non-executive Directors The terms of reference of the Board, together with those of the would normally serve for three periods of three years as the committees and the Chairman and Chief Executive are available Board firmly believes that this provides the maximum on request from the Company Secretary and are also displayed opportunity for Non-executive Directors to gain experience and on Xansas website, www.
Descriptions of the bring experience to the Board.
One-third of the other Directors specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the must seek re-election by the shareholders each year.
Xansas principal Board committees are also provided on pages 36 policy is that no Director stays in office for more than three and 37. years without re-election.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation Formal evaluation of the performance of the During the year the Audit Committee, operating under its Board and of the principal Board committees as well as previous terms of reference, discharged its responsibilities by: individual assessments of the Directors themselves, will be reviewing Xansas draft financial statements and 2004 results conducted during 2004 under the leadership of the Chairman.
statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external The process, which was agreed by the Board earlier in 2004, auditors detailed reports comprises an assessment questionnaire, covering the effectiveness of the Board and its committees including reviewing Xansas trading announcements prior to their composition, arrangements for and content of meetings, access release to information and administrative procedures, as well as the reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys accounting effectiveness of individual members of the Board.
The findings policies will then be reported back to the Board by the Chairman and an action plan addressing any areas of concern established.
reviewing and approving the audit fees In addition, the Chairman will conduct individual interviews reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of Xansas with each of the Directors to appraise their performance.
accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work, The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the confirmation of auditor independence and the terms of evaluation of the Chairman and will meet at least annually with engagement for each audit the other Non-executive Directors to appraise his performance.
reviewing the Risks and Control Failures Report covering the Board committees The Board has established several 36 systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting committees, each with defined terms of reference, procedures, to the Board on the results of the review and receiving responsibilities and powers: these are available on request from regular updates on key risk areas of financial control the Company Secretary and are also displayed on Xansas website, www.
In the light of the Combined Code, reviewing the internal audit functions terms of reference, each committee reviewed its terms of reference and its work programme and receiving regular reports during recommended to the Board certain changes, all of which the year have been implemented.
Going forward, the committees will reviewing the impact of the new Combined Code on the work annually review their terms of reference and their effectiveness, of the Committee and proposing new terms of reference to and if necessary, recommend any changes to the Board.
The minutes of the committee meetings are normally sent to all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
The Audit Committee will continue to meet at least four times Committee membership is shown on pages 30 and 31. a year, including meetings before the annual and interim results announcements and at the commencement of the Audit Committee Chaired by Mr A R F Buxton, the annual external audit process.
Audit Committee also comprises Mrs C C Brooke and The Audit Committee, as part of its duties to review the Professor N Hood.
There were no changes in the composition of nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the the Committee during the year.
Members attendance record at external auditors, to ensure that objectivity and independence meetings of the Committee in 2003 2004 is given on page 33. are maintained, have established a protocol identifying the The Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and external types of work which the external auditors are permitted to auditors normally attend all meetings and the Committee also undertake and that which they may not.
The external auditors meets the external auditors without management present.
also have put in place processes to ensure their independence Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have is maintained, including safeguards to ensure that where they direct access to the Committees Chairman outside of formal do provide non-audit services, their independence is not Committee meetings.
Under its revised terms of reference, the compromised.
Audit Committee, which normally meets four times during the year, is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial Remuneration Committee Chaired by Professor N Hood, the matters including the half-year and annual accounts prior to Remuneration Committee also comprises Mr D M Thomas and their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB.
There were no changes in the which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial Committees composition during the year.
Members attendance information reported to shareholders.
The Audit Committee at the meetings of the Committee in 2003 2004 is given on advises the Board on the appointment of external and page 33.
The Committee, which normally meets four times internal auditors including reviewing their cost effectiveness, during the year, determines the remuneration policy adopted independence and objectivity and on their remuneration both for Xansa employees worldwide and specifically the contract for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and terms, remuneration and other benefits of the Executive scope of their audit work.
Directors, including performance-related bonus schemes.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit No person, other than the Committee members, is entitled to Committee as a whole have sufficient recent and relevant be present at meetings, but others may be invited by the experience to carry out the Committees functions and it Committee to attend.
When the Committee considers matters has determined not to identify any single member as having relating to an individual, that person is not present nor does such experience.
that person act in relation to any matters relating to himself.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Nomination Committee Chaired by Mr W J Alexander, the At general meetings, all voting is carried out by poll and a Nomination Committee also comprises Mr A R F Buxton, schedule of proxy votes cast is also made available to all Mrs C C Brooke, Professor N Hood, Mr D M Thomas and shareholders.
In this way, the Board believes that all Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB.
Dame Hilary Cropper resigned shareholders, including those substantial number of employee from the Committee on 17 September 2003.
Apart from shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM for geographic Dame Hilary Croppers resignation and Mr Alexanders or work-related reasons, will be enfranchised and their votes appointment on 1 January 2004, there were no other counted.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each changes in the composition of the Committee during the substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions year.
The Committee, which meets as and when required, together inappropriately.
keeps under review the composition and balance of the Internal control and risk management The Directors Board and makes recommendations to the Board on all new acknowledge that they are responsible for the organisations appointments and re-appointments of Non-executive Directors.
systems of internal control which are designed to ensure In 2003 the Committee engaged an external search effective and efficient operations, including financial reporting consultancy to seek candidates to succeed Dame Hilary and compliance with laws and regulations and for reviewing Cropper as Chairman.
The Committee reviewed candidates as their effectiveness.
In establishing and reviewing the systems, presented by the consultancy and all Committee members were the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, involved in the interview processes before making their the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of recommendation to the Board.
All members of the Board control.
It follows therefore that such systems can only provide were given the opportunity to meet Mr Alexander prior to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material his appointment.
Strategic Board formerly Management Board Chaired by Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral the Chief Executive, the Strategic Board normally meets part of the annual strategic planning cycle across each sector.
11 times during the year and, comprises all the Executive Monthly reports are provided for all parts of the business.
Directors other than Mr S Srivastava, and other senior The business reviews allow Xansa to identify any risks relating managers.
Working within clearly defined limits delegated by to the business and help to identify any country specific risks.
the Board, the Strategic Board develops the organisations Once any risks have been identified which might hamper strategy for Board approval and oversees its implementation.
achievement of these strategic objectives, each business is It also finalises, before Board approval, annual operating and required to document how these risks will be managed and capital expenditure plans and budgets, reviews operational what mitigating activities have been put in place in respect activities and agrees and monitors organisational-wide policies.
Processes have been established for reporting and managing any material failures.
Information is Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great then reported monthly to the Strategic Board and is thereafter importance to maintaining good relationships with all included as part of the Boards quarterly agenda.
Control issues shareholders and ensures that shareholders are kept informed arising from assurance processes, including risk assurance and of significant Company developments.
The Directors recognise external audit findings, are also discussed at Board meetings.
that the Board is accountable to shareholders for the A separate internal audit function provided by performance and activities of the organisation including the  was established in August 2003, system of internal control and the review of its effectiveness.
replacing Ernst & Young LLP who had been acting in this The Chairman and Chief Executive have shared capacity, reporting through the Audit Committee and providing responsibility, in conjunction with the Deputy Chairman, for business assurance and internal audit services.
establishing and maintaining relationships with government The effectiveness of the internal control systems are institutions, shareholders, potential shareholders and major reviewed quarterly by the Board and the review covers all external bodies.
Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive internal control systems including financial, operational, and Finance Director, hold meetings with the Companys compliance and risk management.
The Board confirms the principal institutional shareholders to discuss the Companys processes were in place throughout the year under review and strategy, financial performance and specific major investment up to the date of approval of the financial statements and that activities.
Care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive the information it received was sufficient to enable it to review information is released to all shareholders at the same time the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
in accordance with the UK Listing Authority requirements.
The Directors are kept appraised of the Companys investor By Order of the Board relations programme by regular presentations at Board Mark Peters Company Secretary meetings.
The Chairman has also met with a number of the 23 June 2004 principal institutional shareholders as part of his induction.
The Board regards the general meetings as an opportunity Registered office: to communicate directly with private investors and actively 420 Thames Valley Park Drive encourages participative dialogue.
The Chairman, Executive Thames Valley Park Directors and Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Reading Committees attend the AGM each year and are available to Berks RG6 1PU answer questions from shareholders.
