25 Annual Report 2003 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Yell is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Following the IPO, a Corporate Governance Steering Group was established under the chairmanship of the Company Secretary.
This group, comprising senior executives from across our business, is responsible for reviewing Yells compliance with corporate governance best practice and for designing and implementing policies and procedures to ensure our continuing compliance.
The Combined Code A new version of the Combined Code was published in July 2003 the 2003 Code.
The 2003 Code applies to reporting years commencing after 1 November 2003.
The Board is fully aware of the provisions of the 2003 Code and is committed to its full implementation.
The 1998 version of the Combined Code the 1998 Code applied to the year ended 31 March 2004.
Save where detailed below, Yell complied with the 1998 Code throughout that period.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises two executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The executive directors are John Condron Chief Executive Officer and John Davis Chief Financial Officer.
Four out of the six non-executive directors are independent as defined under both the 1998 Code and the 2003 Code.
The Chairman, Bob Scott, was independent upon his appointment.
The Board has determined that Lyndon Lea is to be deemed non-independent due to his partnership in Hicks Muse, the private equity firm which, until January 2004, held a significant shareholding in Yell.
The Board has not, to date, appointed a Senior Independent Director.
All non-executive directors are available to shareholders who wish to raise issues that cannot be addressed with the Chairman or either of the two executive directors.
The Board will re-consider the appointment of a Senior Independent Director during the current financial year.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee at page 35.
Yells Articles of Association require one third of the Board to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
At this years Annual General Meeting, being our first since the IPO, all directors will stand for re-election.
Brief biographies of all directors appear on page 24.
Operation of the Board The Board is the principal decision-making forum for Yell.
It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the Company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors performance.
The Board recognises the division in responsibility between the Chairman who runs the Board and the Chief Executive Officer who runs our business.
The Board, which meets at least six times a year, has agreed a schedule identifying the matters reserved for its decision.
This schedule, which is in writing, also delineates the extent of the various delegated authorities granted by the Board.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, who acts as secretary to all of the Board committees.
The directors may take independent professional advice at the expense of Yell in furtherance of their duties.
The Company Secretary works with the Chairman to ensure that all directors receive sufficient information, on a timely basis, to enable the Board to run efficiently.
The Company Secretary has been asked to develop a formal induction and on-going training process for all directors and this will be rolled out during the current financial year.
Following the one year anniversary of Yells IPO, July 2004, the Board will conduct an evaluation of its overall effectiveness during the previous year.
26 Yell Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Committees The following committees have been established under the overall direction of the Board.
Each committee has written terms of reference.
The chairmanship, membership and terms of reference of each committee will be reviewed on an annual basis.
These committees and terms of reference were established at the time of the IPO and their composition and terms of reference will be adjusted during the coming year to bring them into compliance with the 2003 Code.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coghlan and throughout the year the other members were Bob Scott and Joachim Eberhardt.
It meets at least four times a year.
The committee assists the Board in fulfilling its duties regarding the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, it is also responsible for the effectiveness of our systems of internal control, the management of risk and the audit process.
The external auditors and Yells Head of Risk and Internal Audit attend all meetings.
The Board formally reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the last financial year.
The Audit Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of our external auditors.
The nature of non-audit work which may be undertaken by our auditors has been defined and financial limits on the amount of this work have been established.
Regular updates are prepared for the Audit Committee on the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by our auditors.
The auditors are also required to confirm their independence at least annually.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, Charles Carey was the other member of the committee.
The report of the Remuneration Committee appears on pages 30-38.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Lyndon Lea and, throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, its other members were Charles Carey, John Coghlan and John Condron.
The responsibilities of the committee, which will meet at least once a year, include consideration of the size, structure and composition of the Board, the retirement and or appointment of directors and ensuring that the Board has the right blend of skills and experience.
Internal Control The directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Yell has been established.
A detailed risk assessment is prepared by our Head of Risk, covering operational, financial and strategic risks.
This identifies the nature and extent of risks facing the company, the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising and appropriate mitigation plans.
This risk assessment is reviewed by senior management and the Audit Committee.
In addition, each area of the business carries out its own risk assessment of its operations and ensures that key risks to the achievement of business objectives are identified and monitored.
The Audit Committee approves an annual audit plan prepared by the Head of Risk which is designed to ensure that our internal audit activities are focused on priority areas.
The internal audit work provides assurance as to the effectiveness of Yells systems of internal control and risk management to the senior management and to the Audit Committee.
27 Annual Report 2003 04 The Head of Risk meets with the Audit Committee on a regular basis and at least once a year in private.
Regular reports are made to the Audit Committee from across a variety of other functions, such as Legal, and Finance.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
These processes have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Yell Finance BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of Yell Group plc, has registered debt in the USA.
It is required to provide quarterly financial reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and, further, it is subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Relations with Shareholders Yell is committed to ongoing communications with its shareholder base.
This is achieved through regular dialogue throughout the year with our institutional investors and by the publication of press releases and our interim report.
Our Annual General Meeting presents shareholders with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
