Corporate Governance Report The Applicable Code The boards responsibilities and procedures The group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Applicable Combined The primary obligations of the board are detailed in a schedule of matters reserved for board Code for Grainger for the year ended 30 September 2004 was the Combined Code issued in attention.
These include overall strategy, investment strategy, acquisitions and debt over certain June 1998.
This was the last year in which this code was relevant, and as such the board has limits and accounting policies.
The executive directors are responsible for communicating the made diligent progress towards compliance with the New Combined Code, published in July 2003. boards strategy to the senior management of the organisation and hence the effective Where relevant, provisions of the New Combined Code are referred to within this report.
implementation of strategy and day-to-day running of the group.
The terms of reference of the boards committees have been reviewed in the light of the New The board is supplied with relevant financial and non-financial information to enable it to make Combined Code and have been adopted by the board.
The terms of reference refer specifically decisions.
Information is supplied in a timely manner, before each board meeting.
During the year to relevant matters that are reserved for the attention of the full board.
Copies of these terms of a new monthly report has been developed to provide the non-executive directors with up-to-date reference are available from the Company Secretary upon request.
Any director may request further information at any time, such requests are given high priority.
Procedures are in place for directors to take independent professional advice, when Board meetings necessary, at the groups expense.
The group believes in recruiting and retaining the best staff throughout the organisation and this begins at the top.
There is a working balance of non-executives and executives, entrepreneurial and The chairman is responsible for the running of the board.
He has instigated a process of evaluation cautious.
The board meets four times per year, with additional meetings as required.
Telephone of the directors as individuals, the committees and the board as a whole.
The process will begin and video conference are used where short notice is necessary.
In June each year the board meets in the financial year commencing 1 October 2004.
The chief executive is responsible for the for a two day period.
During this time extended strategy discussions are held: there is often a visit management of the day to day running of the group.
Robin Herbert served as senior independent to group properties and dinners are held with senior staff and group contacts, including advisers, non-executive director throughout the year.
He is therefore the director to whom shareholders bankers and agents.
may turn should any concerns fail to be resolved through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance director.
Following Robin Herberts impending retirement at the annual general Attendance at board meetings: meeting in February 2005, Robin Broadhurst will fulfil this role.
Date of meeting Board membership and independence Dec 03 Feb 04 Jun 04 Sept 04 Although board members have been required to stand for re-election at intervals of no more than three years for several years now, the board believes it is important to maintain stability and continuity Robert Dickinson for longer periods.
Principally, this is due to the long-term nature of the groups core businesses.
Stephen Dickinson The process of purchasing land, negotiating planning and then subsequent development to sale Rupert Dickinson can amount to many years hard work, where continuity of leadership is a real asset.
The board Andrew Cunningham in fact considers itself fortunate to have retained the services of several long-standing directors for Sean Slade extended periods.
Further, the board does not consider that such service periods prohibit a director Robin Herbert from being considered independent.
Length of service does not in itself, in the boards view, impair Robert Hiscox character or judgement.
Nichola Pease John Barnsley During the year, the board comprised the chairman, six non-executive directors and three executive Robin Broadhurst directors.
Robin Broadhurst was appointed to the board following the annual general meeting in John Ward February 2004 when John Ward retired, thus maintaining the number of non-executives throughout the year.
Robin Broadhurst will stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Sean Slade attended apologies resigned on 12 November 2004. appointed after February 2004 board meeting resigned at February 2004 annual general meeting Training for directors is available, where appropriate, both on appointment to the board and thereafter.
The independence of the non-executive directors who served during the year, as assessed by the Applicable Combined Code and by the board, is set out opposite.
Grainger Trust plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2004 Under the New Combined Code, Nichola Pease, Robin Broadhurst and John Barnsley would be Director Applicable combined code Boards opinion considered independent as at the date of this report.
Not independent close Robert Dickinson Not independent.
The board has decided family ties, more than nine Chairman that taking all relevant facts into consideration, The board therefore considers that it had a majority of independent non-executives throughout the year.
years service, cross Robert Dickinson cannot be considered directorships.
Biographical details of all directors appear on page 21.
Stephen Dickinson Not independent close Not independent.
The board has decided that Deputy Chairman family ties, more than nine Board committees taking all relevant facts into consideration, years service, cross The three principal committees of the board Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, were maintained Stephen Dickinson cannot be considered directorships.
Part time throughout the year.
Each committee has terms of reference, which indicate matters that must be independent.
executive responsibilities retained for the main board.
Robin Herbert Not independent more Independent.
As stated above, the board does Senior Independent than nine years service.
Audit committee not consider length of service, on its own, John Ward was succeeded as chairman on 26 February 2004 by John Barnsley, who was already a Director to affect the independence of its directors.
On appointment to the board on the same date, Robin Broadhurst also It considers that Robin Herbert is of sound joined the committee.
Robin Herbert served throughout the year.
The board therefore considers that character and judgement and thus independent.
the committee comprised three independent non-executive directors throughout the period under Independent as at the date John Barnsley Independent as at the date of the report and review.
As noted earlier, Robin Herbert will be retiring at the annual general meeting in February 2005. of this report.
Although it is suggested that The board intends to appoint a further independent non-executive director to the board, and that December 2001 John three years should elapse following a relationship director will also serve on the audit committee in order to retain the required constitution.
Barnsley was a senior with a professional adviser of the group, John partner for the groups Barnsley was not connected with any service The audit committee met four times and updated its terms of reference during the year.
Minor cross provided to the group during his time with the directorship.
He has no continuing personal Nomination committee interests with the groups auditors and is not any Robert Dickinson chairman and Robin Herbert served on the nomination committee throughout the From December 2004 John form of conduit of information.
Nichola Pease replaced Stephen Dickinson during the year.
Robert Hiscox was also appointed.
Barnsleys former position Barnsley is a director of Northern Investors with the groups auditors is Company PLC, where Robert Dickinson is also a Remuneration committee no longer relevant for the director, this mutual interest is not considered to determination of Nichola Pease, chairman of the remuneration committee, served throughout the year, as did Robert have any impact on his independent judgement independence.
He was Hiscox and John Barnsley.
John Ward retired at the annual general meeting on 26 February 2004. as a director of Grainger.
however strictly not independent throughout the Relations with shareholders year under review.
The company meets regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
In addition to the usual meetings after results announcements, ad hoc meetings are arranged to continue dialogue throughout the year.
Robert Hiscoxs trusteeship is not, Not independent Trustee In particular, during the year under review, the groups chief executive and deputy chief executive finance on its own, sufficient to affect his independent for Estate containing director have visited other countries in Europe where there is interest in Graingers shares.
Robert Hiscox brings significant skill and business experience to the The annual general meeting is the primary route for communication with smaller private shareholders, board in his own right.
although the groups website also includes a specific Investor Relations section.
Nichola Pease the annual general meeting, and the chairmen of all committees are available to answer questions.
The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts are sent out at least 20 working days before Independent.
Separate votes are held for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the appointed remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is available in each case.
As stated above, the board does John Ward Not independent more retired than nine years service, not consider length of service, on its own, to cross directorships.
affect the independence of its directors.
It 26 February 2004 considers that John Ward was of sound character and judgement and thus independent during his time on the board this year.
John Ward was also a director of Northern Investors PLC, along with Robert Dickinson and John Barnsley, but this was not considered to have any impact on his independent judgement.
Annual report and accounts 2004 23 Grainger Trust plc Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control Going concern The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and managing its significant risks.
The After making enquiries, including the review of future anticipated cash flows and banking covenants, process is designed to enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources as far as possible.
It should be noted however that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance concern basis in preparing the accounts.
against material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is delegated the task of reviewing all identified risks, with the absolute key risks retained for full board review.
Risks and controls are Compliance statement reviewed to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, financial, operational and With the exception of the provisions listed below, the group has, throughout the year ended compliance issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and full year financial statements 30 September 2004, been in compliance with the Applicable Combined Code.
and holds discussions with the groups auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal audit function which performs relevant reviews as part of a programme approved by the audit committee.
Independence: A3.2, B2.2, D3.1 The committee considers any issues or risks arising therefrom in order that appropriate actions As shown in the table on page 23, although the Applicable Combined Code strictly considers several can be undertaken to their satisfactory resolution.
of the non-executive directors to be not independent, the board differs in opinion.
In particular, over the last year, there have been many changes to the groups systems made as a Length of contracts: B1.7 to B1.10 result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% of Bromley just prior to the year ended 30 September Two of the executive directors have contracts of over one year, with no specific provisions for 2003.
The groups external auditors were involved in reviewing these changes as part of their normal compensation for loss of office.
The board feels that this is necessary to ensure commitment and audit procedures to the extent that they considered necessary.
The group also enjoyed a unique long-term continuity in achieving the groups objectives, which by virtue of the groups activities are opportunity to redesign the organisational structure, which, whilst not stifling the entrepreneurial also long-term in nature.
However, the notice period on their original contracts is being reduced from nature of the group, allows the board to retain full control of the business.
two years to one year on a straight line basis over a period of five years from 1 October 2002.
At the date of this report, the notice period outstanding stood at approximately 18 months.
An annual budget is produced, together with longer term projections, which are presented to the board for approval.
At each meeting the board discusses progress against the budget and monitors By order of the board any variances.
If applicable, revisions are made to the expected outturn against which further progress can be monitored.
The board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing.
All such proposed substantial investments are considered by all directors or, where meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement of directors cannot be achieved, by an executive committee of directors.
The board is also responsible for the Marie Glanville discussion and approval of the groups treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in Company Secretary interest rates.
21 December 2004 Grainger Trust plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2004
