A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company and the application of the principles contained in the Combined Code an Corporate governance issued in June 1998 Combined Code is set out below.
The Companys corporate governance procedures, which have been adopted by the Board and subsequently reviewed and updated, are designed to enable the Company to comply with the Combined Code.
Ez Following the publication of the revised Combined Code in July 2003, the Board has reviewed its existing corporate governance eki arrangements in order to comply with the revised Combined Code where appropriate.
el Board of Directors The Board is comprised of three executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two independent non-executive Directors.
The Board operates within a structure in which the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors including non-executive Directors are clearly defined.
The non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent from management and has no commercial or other connection with the Company other than as shareholders, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Clive Richards was appointed during the year as the senior independent Director.
The Board has not sought to comply with the provision of the Combined Code which requires the appointment of three non-executive Directors on the Audit Committee, believing such an appointment is not necessary given the composition of the Board.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company and to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board procedures are followed.
The Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, whereby one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
The three executive Directors have service contracts which have a notice period of no more than twelve months.
Subject to reappointment by rotation, the continuing service of the non-executive Directors is reviewed by the Board periodically.
The Board, which is scheduled to meet at least six times each year, has ultimate responsibility for setting overall strategy, acquisitions and disposals, internal control, approval of major capital expenditure projects, treasury and risk management policies, and consideration of significant matters relating to the raising of finance and corporate governance.
The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities which include a schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision.
Board Committees The Board has established two standing committees in which the non-executive Directors play an active role.
Each committee has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
These committees are: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, comprising Clive Richards Chairman and Christopher Sheridan, meets at least twice a year.
The Committee is responsible for the appointment of external auditors, reviewing the interim and annual financial results, considering matters raised by the auditors and monitoring the internal control system operated by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Christopher Sheridan Chairman and Clive Richards, meets at least once a year to review the terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors including the provision of incentives and performance related benefits.
The report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 28 to 32.
The Board has considered the recommendation to introduce a Nominations Committee.
However, given the small size of the Board, it was decided that nominations are to remain a matter reserved for the Board.
Communication with shareholders The Company has always recognised the importance of clear communications with shareholders and has encouraged a regular dialogue with institutional and other shareholders.
Internal control 34 35 Ezekiel The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to Corporate governance continued manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group encompassing the Groups interest in Scarlett Retail which has been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of this process the Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, considering the scope and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property, finance and external markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to mitigate those risks.
These are reviewed, adopted and, if appropriate, updated during the year.
These include business risks, financial controls and the regulatory environment.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has resolved that, due to the size of the Company, this is not appropriate at present.
The Board will review this decision annually.
Going concern Having made due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Compliance with the Combined Code With the exception of the requirement to establish a Nominations Committee, to have three non-executive Directors on the Audit Committee and the absence of a senior independent Director for the earlier part of the year, the Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains and losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2004, suitable accounting policies, in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used.
The Directors also confirm that the going concern basis is appropriate.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining the integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
UK legislation governing preparation and dissemination of financial statements may therefore differ from that in other jurisdictions.
