Pillar Property PLC Report on corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2004 26 The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
It has Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is specifically charged complied throughout the year, with the Combined Code issued by the UK Listing with determining the companys policy on executive directors remuneration.
Authority relating to the principles of Good Governance and Code of Best It meets at least once a year and comprises all non-executive directors and is Practice.
chaired by the senior non-executive director Sir Derek Hornby.
A summary of the companys procedures, for applying the principles and the Full details of each directors remuneration, including share options and bonus extent to which the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code have been payments, are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Internal control The Combined Code has introduced the requirement that The new Combined Code, issued in July 2003, will apply for the reporting directors review the effectiveness of all internal controls and not purely internal years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In 2003, the Board commenced financial controls.
assessing the groups compliance with the new Combined Code and will take The directors operate the company in accordance with its Articles of steps to ensure that it complies with the requirements of the new Combined Association, which set out the overall operating framework of the group.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control.
During the year ended 31 March 2004 and at the date of this report, the board However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk operated as follows: of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and The board The company is run by an effective board, which leads and controls not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The board comprises five executive directors, including the Chairman, Within the financial and overall objectives for the group that are agreed by the and five non-executive directors.
They all bring a wide range of experience and board, the management of the group as a whole is delegated to the executive skills to the company.
The board reviews the groups strategic direction.
Directors are required to retire by rotation every three years and, if appropriate, The board reviews annually the risk profile of the group and considers the put themselves forward for re-election.
Directors over the age of 70 must seek effectiveness with which it is managed.
All executive directors are appointed with notice periods of The groups management structure has clearly delegated authority levels, termination not being greater than one year.
The roles of Chairman and Chief functional reporting lines and accountability.
The group operates a Executive are separate and clearly defined.
Four of the non-executive directors comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system, allowing management are independent from management and have no commercial or other connection to monitor financial and operational performance on a continuing basis and to with the company.
The fifth, Mr J M Mara is a senior officer of General Electric identify and respond to business risks before, and as, they arise.
Investment Company, which is a major shareholder of the company.
Key elements of the internal control system include a list of matters reserved The full board meets six times a year on a formal basis and is supplied in a for approval solely by the board.
Such items include approval of major timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it transactions, control over capital expenditure, acquisition and disposal of major to discharge its duties.
The executive directors meet weekly: they focus on major fixed assets, borrowing limits and treasury policy.
The board must also approve transactions, business growth, strategy, cash management, financial all major contracts and those that involve material ongoing business risks, performance and control.
A formal procedure exists to allow directors to take independent professional Responsibility for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the advice and the company will meet such reasonable expenses that arise in taking groups auditors and their various other business departments is vested in such advice.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice Mr H J M Price, Finance Director.
Whilst any system of internal control can provide only reasonable and not The approval and appointment of directors is a matter for the entire board.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the board places reliance on adherence to the companys control framework and has reviewed the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Due to its size, the group does not of reference.
Mr M C Stoddart is Chairman of the Committee: the other members currently have an internal audit function although this matter is reviewed annually.
being the remaining non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and more frequently if Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet institutional required.
Its primary task is to review the half yearly and annual accounts, prior shareholders and analysts after the announcement of the interim and final results, to submission to the board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and on other occasions as appropriate, to ensure the companys objectives and compliance, areas of management judgment and estimates.
It acts as a forum strategy are well understood.
for discussion on internal control issues and reports to the board on the The directors appreciate the importance of private shareholders in the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls.
It also controls the company and use the companys Extraordinary General Meetings and Annual appointment of the external auditors and reviews the volume of their non-audit General Meetings as further opportunities to communicate with private investors.
services provided to the group.
The number of proxy votes is disclosed at general meetings.
