36 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report The board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In carrying out its duties it delegates detailed responsibility for internal control to the Audit Committee.
Introduction results, and will, in future also meet considering reports of the internal and The Audit Committee submits its report with them before the publication of external auditors in the light of current for the year ended 31 March 2004, which its interim results.
corporate governance practice: and sets out the Groups audit policy and the In addition the Committee has access to reviewing arrangements for staff to role of the Committee in monitoring the financial systems and the management funding for any further independent legal, raise financial concerns in confidence.
accounting or other advice it believes to of external and internal auditors which The Terms of Reference, which will be are carried out in accordance with be necessary for the effective execution of its duties.
reviewed at least annually, may be found current legislation and best practice.
on the Companys website or are available This year the directors will be seeking The duties of the Audit Committee are on request from its registered office.
set out in its Terms of Reference, which approval of the Groups Audit Report The Committee confirms that there has from its shareholders at its Annual were reviewed and approved during the period and include: been an ongoing process in place for the General Meeting.
identification, evaluation and management Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the of risk during the period to the date of The Audit Committee comprises all financial statements and any financial the publication of this report, and the the non-executive directors, and since announcements and significant Committee is not aware of any previously October 2002 has been chaired by reporting judgments therein: unidentified risks.
Additionally the board David Pangbourne, who is a former has reviewed the scope, authority and partner with Deloitte & Touche LLP and a considering and making resources of the Committee during recommendations to the board qualified Chartered Accountant.
the year, the Committee met six times regarding the appointment or removal of the internal and external auditors: Internal with full attendance on each occasion The board recognises that it is ultimately with the exception of Joan MacNaughton reviewing internal financial controls: responsible for the system of internal being unable to attend the first meeting control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
following her appointment due to monitoring and reviewing the In carrying out its duties it delegates previous commitments.
effectiveness of the internal audit detailed responsibility for internal control function: The Finance Director, the Chief Financial to the Audit Committee.
Management prepares financial statements and Officer and others attend by invitation.
reviewing the nature and scope of The Committee met with the external disclosures in accordance with the external audit and monitoring the applicable rules and regulations which auditors twice during the year without external auditors independence and management being present.
It met the the Committee reviews for clarity, effectiveness: completeness, accuracy and context valuers of the Groups principal properties prior to the release of the preliminary and, if dissatisfied, reports back to forming policy on the supply of nonthe board.
audit services by the external auditors: 37 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Audit Committee Report The Group is committed to the highest The Committee makes commitment to fees of 20,000 or standards of business conduct and recommendations on the appointment more to the auditors for non-audit seeks to maintain these standards of and approves the remuneration of the services must be given prior permission across all of its operations.
The Group external auditor, with particular regard from either the Committee or the board.
has what it believes to be an appropriate to the setting of appropriate parameters During the period the main areas of nonorganisational structure for planning, of the audit.
It also ensures the auditors audit work undertaken by the auditors executing, controlling and monitoring overall work plan is consistent with the were principally tax advice and due business operations in order to achieve terms of engagement and reviews the diligence work relating to acquisitions, its objectives.
audit representation letters prior to which did not compromise its objectivity.
The total value of the auditors non-audit The Group has procedures designed fees for the year was 762,000 and a to ensure complete and accurate The Committee meets the external breakdown of these can be found in accounting, and to limit the potential auditors periodically to ensure a direct note 4 b on page 56.
Following a tender exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
line of communication and to review process Deloitte & Touche LLP was Control measures undertaken include their independence.
appointed to provide taxation advice physical controls, segregation of duties, from 1 April 2004, replacing the auditor.
The Committee reviews significant reviews by management, and internal and external audit.
financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation In accordance with the Combined of preliminary, interim and other price By Order of the Board Code on Corporate Governance, the sensitive public reports.
The Chairman effectiveness of the Groups system of and the Committee discuss any major internal controls was reviewed during the accounting or other audit issues that period, both by the Committee and by arise with the external audit team.
This review included financial, At the end of the audit cycle the external operational and compliance issues.
auditors report is reviewed by the David Pangbourne The board considers its policy Committee, which reports the auditors Chairman of Audit Committee and procedures to be robust whilst findings and makes recommendations 18 June 2004 recognising that such a system is to the board.
The Committee also designed to manage rather than reviews the effectiveness of the audit eliminate the risk of failure to achieve process itself, including: business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance whether the auditors have met the management plan: against material misstatement or loss.
Monitoring is achieved through the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in handling key assessment by internal auditors at the direction of the Committee and the accounting audit judgements and systems of internal control: presentation to the board of findings together with recommendations of any obtaining feedback from key appropriate corrective actions to be personnel: and taken.
The Group retained one financial and one non-financial internal auditor the content of the management letter.
during the year, both of whom regularly met with the Committee Chairman and During the year the Committee met or reported to the Committee itself reviewed its procedures to ensure at least twice a year.
The scope of their the independence and objectivity of the work was reviewed during the period auditors.
The auditor has its own internal and agreed with the Committee procedures in place to ensure that none Chairman and Finance Director.
of the audit team has a personal or financial interest in the Company which The Group has in place a whistle blowing might impair their judgement or objectivity.
policy under which members of staff with Furthermore, it is the auditors policy that concerns may raise these in confidence the lead audit partner be rotated at least under procedures contained in the every five years, in line with which the staff handbook.
audit partner in charge of the audit team was replaced in April 2003.
External control The Groups external auditor was first The Committee also reviewed the appointed in April 1992.
In July 1996, Groups policy regarding provision the audit was transferred to a corporate of non-audit services by the auditors, body, KPMG Audit Plc the auditor.
and introduced additional safeguards, including a requirement that any
