24 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The directors take decisions objectively and in the best interests of the Group, being collectively and individually, responsible for its success.
Introduction Memoranda and Articles of Association the Group has also engaged in The following report is a summary of are available to shareholders free of extensive consultation with central the Companys system of Corporate charge from the registered office and and local government and with the Governance.
During the year to through the corporate website.
31 March 2004, the directors reviewed best practice, referring to the Combined The board collectively and individually The directors take decisions subscribes to the principles and objectively and in the best interests Code on Corporate Governance the Code, the Higgs and Smith reports provisions in the Code and associated of the Group, being collectively and guidance and confirms that the individually, responsible for its success.
Company is in compliance, save that They are accountable to each and every As a result, the directors are a formal system of board evaluation is shareholder and take into consideration recommending three changes to the still being finalised on which the directors the need to foster the Groups business Companys Memorandum and Articles will report next year.
relationships with other stakeholders in of Association.
Shareholders will be asked discharging that obligation.
The Board of Directors to amend the provision that restricts the A schedule of matters reserved for The board comprises the Chairman plus number of directors to ten, and to lift the board has been approved which is the limit of 100,000 per annum for four executive and five non-executive reviewed at least once a year.
It includes directors, all of the latter being considered non-executive directors aggregate those matters that are most significant remuneration.
Full details of these independent.
It has a good balance to the Group, based on the nature and between executive and non-executive changes are included in the Notice size of the transaction, both in terms of Annual General Meeting on pages directors, with the diversity of relevant of financial impact and risk.
These are skills required to further the interests of 73 and 74.
Whilst the Company has a available to all shareholders again board of ten, and no present intention shareholders.
Brief biographies of each through the website or on request board member can be found on to increase its size, these limitations from the registered office.
might fetter the boards ability to manage pages 20 and 21, including all external corporate appointments.
It is the Groups its business effectively particularly as As part of its collective responsibility for best practice guidelines now encourage policy that executive directors may not the management of the Group, the board hold more than one external directorship.
a significant independent director must ensure that adequate resources are participation.
In the boards opinion these During the period Nick Shattock was a in place to achieve its strategic aims, that non-executive director of Hills Group, but changes neither detract from shareholder its obligations to shareholders and other value, nor materially reduce shareholder resigned in July 2004.
James Hamilton stakeholders are met.
In the management Stubber is a director of a small family rights.
As part of its overall review of the of Group assets the board is also business the board will continue to property trading company, which does conscious both of environmental issues not conflict in any way with his duties monitor the Memorandum and Articles and community relations.
As part of the of Association at least once a year.
planning process for the Wembley and Copies of both the existing and proposed Greenwich urban regeneration projects 25 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report Formal board meetings are held at accountancy, law and economics to add members to vote on her appointment least bi-monthly and during the year to the boards effectiveness, particularly to the board in January.
The board to 31 March 2004, there were six in the areas of corporate strategy, recommends to shareholders that formal meetings.
Each meeting was fully governance and risk.
Non-executive those directors offering themselves attended except the July meeting, from directors take an active part in debate for election at its forthcoming AGM which Adrian Wyatt was absent due to and not being afraid to challenge be elected.
During the period there proposals ensures the robustness Board Committees were 17 other ad hoc board meetings, of board decisions.
Barbara The Companys policy is that all quorate, but not necessarily of the full Thomas is the deputy chairman of non-executives are members of all board, to facilitate day to day business the Financial Reporting Council and committees.
Whilst the directors are operations.
In addition, the Chairman chairman of the Professional Standards aware that this may not be regarded held two formal and a number of informal Advisory Board of the Institute of as best practice by some, they believe meetings solely with the non-executive Directors.
Barbara is a lawyer and expert it to be in the interests of the Company directors.
The non-executive directors in corporate governance and continues to have maximum diversity of skills also met at least twice without the to be the nominated Senior Independent on all committees.
Barbaras experience and qualifications make her the most David Pangbourne is currently Chairman The board is offered training and appropriate non-executive director for of both the Audit and Remuneration information in a form and of a quality this role and she is available to meet Committee.
Although some guidelines it believes is appropriate to enable it to shareholders on request and at the AGM.
judge this not to be ideal, the directors discharge its duties.
Directors receive consider that David, being now retired training in specific areas relevant to their Non-executive directors contracts are from full-time practice, is able to commit speciality and relevant to the board as initially for a period of three years, which the significant time required to execute a whole.
New directors are offered an may be extended for a further period both roles.
In addition, being a Chartered induction programme including tailorsubject to re-election by the members Accountant of many years experience, made elements where appropriate.
Executive directors his skills make him an ideal Chairman of Joan MacNaughton, who became a have rolling service contracts which the Audit Committee.
It is the boards non-executive director in January 2004, provide for a notice period of six months.
intention that David will retain his is following an Institute of Directors None of the service agreements contain Chairmanship of the Audit Committee course on The Role and Responsibilities any liquidated damages or payment in for the foreseeable future, but that the of Being a Non-Executive Director.
lieu of damages on change of control Chairmanship of the Remuneration In addition Joan has undertaken a provisions.
All directors contracts are Committee will continue to rotate more familiarisation programme of the Groups available for inspection at the registered regularly than that of the Audit Committee, business including a visit to key sites, office, at the AGM, and on the as it has done in the past.
meetings with executive directors and Companys website.
The Audit Committee meets formally In accordance with the Companys at least three times each year.
It also The directors have access to the Articles, each director must stand for meets separately with the auditors and company secretary, who is both re-election at least every three years.
During a qualified solicitor and chartered The terms of Reference of the Audit and the year ended 31 March 2004, the secretary.
The company secretary Remuneration Committees require the Committee met on six occasions.
Its keeps the directors informed of chairman of each committee to offer Terms of Reference include consideration corporate governance issues and himself herself for re-election annually.
of the appointment and terms of changes in the law and best practice This year Martin Meech, Rebecca engagement of the external and internal guidance, ensuring board procedures auditors together with a review of their are complied with, where required, Worthington, David Pangbourne and Barbara Thomas are standing for reindependence, objectivity and and has access to external professional effectiveness, the coordination of internal advice at the Groups expense.
David Pangbourne is also standing for re-election in his and external auditors, reviewing auditors reports, annual and interim reports, asset The non-executive directors bring capacity as Chairman of both the Audit independent views to the board.
Joan valuations, internal control policy and procedures and consistency.
have diverse experience having expertise MacNaughton is standing for election, in chartered surveying, the civil service, this being the first opportunity for the 26 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report Best practice introduced since the match the efforts of individual employees to the board as a whole and summaries year end requires the Audit Committee who participate in charitable events up to of shareholder meetings given to to comprise only non-executive a maximum of 500 per employee.
Formal feedback from directors and accordingly Nigel Ellis has authority to consider applications shareholders is also given to the has resigned from the Audit Committee.
from charitable bodies connected with directors by the Companys brokers, the Company.
The Committee is Cazenove & Co Limited.
The Remuneration Committee meets chaired by Martin Meech and comprises at least three times each year.
During The Companys AGM provides a further the non-executive directors and the the year ended 31 March 2004, the Chief Executive.
opportunity for investors to question the Committee met five times.
Its Terms directors, both formally and informally.
of Reference include consideration of A Risk Committee was formed during They also have a chance to meet any all aspects of the executive directors the period whose members are David new directors.
The number of proxy performance, employment, remuneration Pangbourne, John Plender, Martin votes lodged for each motion is and incentives.
It also sets the remuneration Meech, Adrian Wyatt and Rebecca announced at the meeting and recorded and incentives policy of the Group as a Worthington.
The Committees inaugural in the minutes, a copy of which is posted whole and approves the remuneration of meeting was held in January 2004 on the corporate website.
The remuneration report is and it is intended that it will meet at set out on pages 28 to 35. least twice a year.
Matters within its The format and content of the corporate website at www.
com remit include financial and treasury The Nominations Committee is issues, valuation, reputation, legal, was updated during the year under responsible for the selection and review and provides information corporate governance, management, approval of candidates for appointment economic and operational risks.
relating to the property portfolio, policy to the board.
The Committee meets statements, finance and corporate formally at least once a year and During the year ended 31 March 2004 contacts, press releases and on-screen otherwise when required.
It is chaired the Committees met with full attendance Annual Reports which may be by Nigel Ellis and comprises all the on all occasions with the exception of downloaded in the same format as non-executive directors and the Chief the Audit and Remuneration Committee the hard copy.
There is also a section Executive.
Whilst some guidance views meetings in March, which Joan on the statutory documents of the Adrian Wyatts membership of this MacNaughton was unable to attend Company, together with a facility to Committee as not ideal, the directors due to commitments made prior to her contact the Company through the believe it to be in the best interests appointment to the board, and the board site by e-mail.
The Committees Terms meeting in July, which Adrian Wyatt did Going concern of Reference include the regular review not attend due to personal reasons.
The following statement is made of the structure and composition of Lease Code as required by provision D. 1.3 of the board, the identification of suitable The Company is in support of the the Code: candidates to fill vacancies as and when initiatives set out in The Code of Practice they arise, making recommendations for After making enquiries, including for Commercial Leases in England and the re-election of directors and forming Wales, which was launched on 22 April reviewing the Groups budgets and succession plans.
During the year available finance, the directors have 2002.
The Code contains a range of ended 31 March 2004, the Nominations recommendations which are deemed a reasonable expectation that the Group Committee met three times to discuss has adequate resources to continue in to represent best practice between the structure and size of the board, principles and their representatives operational existence for the foreseeable the addition of a further director and future.
For this reason, they continue to in landlord and tenant matters.
its recommendations in relation to adopt the going concern basis in the subsequent appointment of Shareholder Relations preparing the accounts.
Pam Alexander and Joan MacNaughton The Finance Director, with the following the submission of applicants assistance of her fellow executive from external search consultants.
directors, is primarily responsible for investor relations and regularly makes The Donations Committee is responsible contact with institutional and other for evaluating charitable requests shareholders in an effort to maintain submitted to the Company and makes an open and effective dialogue.
decisions within the scope of pre-set The Chairman, the SID and the other criteria which are reviewed periodically.
non-executive directors are also The Committee meets as necessary, and available to meet with larger shareholders met once in the financial year.
It has, for to review strategy, corporate governance, example, recently introduced a policy to or to discuss matters of concern.
encourage staff participation in the raising Shareholders views are communicated of funds for charity, under which it will 27 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Report Directors responsibilities Risk identification: managers are and limits of authority.
An important Company law requires the directors to responsible for ongoing identification and part of this structure is a weekly prepare accounts for each financial year evaluation of key risks applicable to their meeting of the executive directors which give a true and fair view of the areas and for taking appropriate action.
to review the ongoing business state of affairs of the Company and the Risks may be associated with a variety and decide on proposed Group and of the profit and loss for that of internal or external sources including acquisitions divestments: period.
In preparing those accounts the control breakdowns, disruption in agreed operational procedures, both directors are required to: information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
internal and in dealings with external select suitable accounting policies bodies, which assist in the maintenance The risks identified and the actions taken and then apply them consistently: to minimise or eliminate them are of uniformly high standards: and assessed on a regular basis by the make judgements and estimates the measurement of financial internal auditors who report to the that are reasonable and prudent: and performance at least once every Audit Committee.
Significant findings three months against budgets and are presented to the board and can result state whether applicable accounting long-term financial plans.
in refinements to internal procedures.
standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed During the year the directors undertook Control environment: the Group and explained in the accounts.
an internal audit in relation to all operating is committed to the highest standards businesses, including a review of health of business conduct and seeks to The directors are responsible for keeping and safety and insurance issues.
maintain these standards across all of its proper accounting records which operations.
The board considers it has disclose with reasonable accuracy at The Group has entered into a number an appropriate organisational structure any time the financial position of the of joint ventures, the most material for planning, executing, controlling and Company and the Group to enable them being the Quercus Property Partnership monitoring business operations in order to ensure that the accounts comply with Quercus, which is 20% controlled to achieve the Groups objectives.
the Companies Act 1985. by the Company and 80% by the Lines of responsibility and delegation major partner, Norwich Union Life and of authority are documented.
They are also responsible for Pensions, whose responsibility it is to safeguarding the assets of the Company ensure proper financial controls.
Quercus Information and communication: and the Group and hence for taking has therefore not been included as part periodic strategic reviews are carried reasonable steps for the prevention and of the Group for the purposes of the out which include the consideration of detection of fraud and other irregularities.
long-term projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Annual budgets Internal controls The board is committed to following and strategic plans are prepared.
The The board is ultimately responsible for corporate governance best practice portfolio manager provides management the Groups system of internal control wherever possible and has undertaken with regular operational progress reports and for reviewing its effectiveness.
to review its position annually.
It has for consideration and, where necessary, However, such a system is designed to considered its system of internal control early corrective action.
Periodic forecasts manage, rather than eliminate, the risk and its effectiveness for the financial year support the active monitoring of the of failure to achieve business objectives and up to the date of this report and, Groups performance against plan.
Both and can provide only reasonable and not in its opinion, the process accords with results and forecasts are consolidated absolute assurance against material the current guidance.
and presented to the board on a misstatement or loss.
In accordance with regular basis.
the Code, the board has in place an onBy Order of the Board going system of identification, evaluation The other key elements of the Groups and management of significant risks.
The system of internal control are as follows: effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls was reviewed during the regular meetings of the board and period, both by the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee, whose overall Charlotte Eastwood by the board.
This review included responsibilities are set out in this Company Secretary financial, operational, compliance and risk Report and the Audit Committees 18 June 2004 management.
During the year and up to Terms of Reference: the date of this report, the board was not aware of any material risks or incidents not a management structure designed previously assessed.
It is anticipated that to enable effective decision-making in future years this will also be part of the with clearly defined responsibilities Risk Committees remit.
