St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Corporate governance report St. Modwen is committed to good corporate governance.
The board of directors exercises effective control over the group and its activities while recognising its responsibility to shareholders and other interested parties.
The procedures for applying these principles within the group are set out below.
This should be read in conjunction with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39.
Compliance with The Combined Code the Code Throughout the year ended 30th November 2004 the company has complied with the Code except for the following matters: The Code recommends that a chief executive should not go on to be the chairman of the same company.
As disclosed in last years annual report, the board recommended the appointment of former Chief Executive, Anthony Glossop, as Chairman of the company.
This was endorsed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2004.
With the appointment during the year of Simon Clarke and Paul Rigg as non executive directors, the board of St. Modwen, including the Chairman, now comprises four executive and five non-executive directors.
This complies with the Code, which recommends that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Prior to these appointments, the boards composition did not comply with the Code.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the Nominations Committee, and all members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Christopher Roshier would not qualify under the Code to be considered independent as he has served as a director for more than nine years.
However, with the exception of Simon Clarke who represents a significant shareholder, all non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The length of service of Christopher Roshier 17 years is not considered to impair his independence, but rather to provide a depth of knowledge, insight into the business and commitment to the company which enables him more fully to carry out his duties.
In accordance with the Code, he is standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Code recommends that the board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
It is intended that evaluations, facilitated by an external assessor, will commence in 2005.
Previously, an internal evaluation has been performed by the Chairman and the senior independent director.
Board composition The composition of the board provides an appropriate blend of experience and qualifications, and the number of non-executive directors provides a strong base for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the company.
The board meets formally 11 times a year and its decisions are implemented by the executive directors.
Every director attended all 11 meetings in the year, except for James Shaw 10, Sir Stanley Clarke 6, Simon Clarke appointed in October 2004 2, and Paul Rigg appointed in November 2004 1.
The board has agreed that in view of his chairmanship of both the Remuneration and Audit Committees, Christopher Roshier is identified as the senior independent director.
He is available for consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It is intended that appointments will be for an initial term of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Prior to each non-executive director offering himself to the members for re-election his reappointment must be confirmed by the Chairman in consultation with the remainder of the board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours, and at the AGM.
The board is supplied with timely and relevant information regarding the business, by regular monthly and ad hoc reports, by site visits and presentations from members of the management team and by meetings with key partners.
Where appropriate, the company provides the resources to enable directors to update and upgrade their knowledge.
Through the company secretary, the board is informed of all corporate governance issues.
The criteria used for evaluating individual executive directors perfomance are included in the Remuneration Report.
Individual non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The performance of the board as a whole is continuously assessed in the context of the companys achievement of its strategic objectives and total shareholder return targets.
Feedback is sought through external surveys from shareholders, analysts and other professionals within the investment community following the regular briefings, presentations and site visits undertaken by the company.
33 St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Corporate governance report continued Board committees In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the board has appointed the following committees, all of which have formal terms of reference which are available for inspection by shareholders and are posted on the companys website.
a Remuneration Committee The composition and function of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39.
The Remuneration Committee met formally once during the year, which meeting was attended by all members.
b Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by the senior independent director and comprises all of the non-executive directors.
Two meetings were held during the year and additional meetings may be requested by either the auditors or the non-executive directors.
Both meetings were attended by all members of the Committee.
The Finance Director attends part of these meetings but the Committee does meet without executive directors being present.
The Committee has direct access to the auditors.
The Audit Committees functions which have been undertaken during the year include:- Ensuring that appropriate accounting systems and financial controls are in operation and that the companys financial statements comply with statutory and other requirements Receiving reports from, and consulting with, the external auditors Reviewing the interim and annual results and considering any matters raised by the auditors Monitoring the scope, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the audit Monitoring the nature, scope and cost effectiveness of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and ensuring that, where such services are provided, the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is safeguarded Making an annual assessment of the external auditors and recommending, or not, their re-appointment Considering the need for an internal audit function Reviewing and monitoring of whistle-blowing arrangements within the company.
c Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman and the senior independent director.
For the appointment of new non-executive directors during the year, a detailed specification was drawn up and agreed with all board members setting out the skills of and background from which it was felt a new director should be drawn.
Soundings were then taken to identify suitable candidates, three of whom were interviewed.
Recommendations were made by the Nominations Committee to the whole board for the appointment of Paul Rigg and Simon Clarke.
The Committee met formally once during the year.
Risk management The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the identification and mitigation of risks and the development and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control.
Accordingly, as part of the annual strategic review process, a top-down risk assessment is undertaken, which has identified the following principal risks faced by the company:- Securing development and investment opportunities Prior identification of macroeconomic and property market trends Changes in planning policy or Government structures Structuring the financing of the company in an innovative and competitive manner Recruitment and retention of key executives with the skills necessary to implement the company strategy successfully Maintaining the companys high reputation Controlling construction including forward pricing and ground condition risks The board believes that, although some of these issues are outside its control, it has clear strategies for identifying, dealing with, and mitigating the impact of each of these risks.
The main strategies deployed include:- Having a devolved management structure with regional offices covering local markets, whilst maintaining strong central control Marshalling the contents of its bank of development opportunities the Hopper to ensure a steady programme of activity Working in close partnership with local authorities and development agencies Committed financing arrangements with key banks Ensuring that excellent performance is rewarded with top quartile remuneration Aligning individual and corporate objectives via long-term and share-based incentive schemes Ensuring a culture, led from the board, of honesty, fairness and integrity throughout the company.
34 St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Corporate governance report continued Internal control During the period under review the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, through the production of a detailed report which covered: the groups control environment: the manner in which key business risks are identified: the adequacy of information systems and control procedures: and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
The groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly reporting from all activities which includes a detailed portfolio analysis, development progress reviews, a cash flow report and a comparison of committed expenditure against available facilities.
These matters are reported to the board monthly, with reasons for any significant variances from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment properties, contracts and commitments and there is a formal schedule of matters, including major investment and development decisions and strategic matters, that are reserved for board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of employment, the construction process, health and safety and IT.
The companys IT policies have been developed in co-operation with the Federation Against Software Theft.
Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management are further embedded into the operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee has reviewed the need to establish an internal audit function, but continues to believe that in a company of its size, where close control over operations is exercised by the executive directors, the benefits likely to be gained would be outweighed by the costs of establishing such a function.
Shareholder relations The executive directors have a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts at which the companys strategy and most recently reported performance are explained and questions and comments made are relayed to the whole board.
Annual visits are also arranged to sites of particular interest or significance to assist investors understanding of the companys business.
The companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
In addition to the usual period for questions which is made available for shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, Christopher Roshier, the chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, will be available to answer appropriate questions.
Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and Annual Reports are posted on the companys website www.
co. uk, together with additional details of major projects, key financial information and company background.
To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions at our Annual General Meeting, the company is providing, for the first time this year, the opportunity to vote electronically through CREST for further details see page 59. Business standards The company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in business dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal with any illegal or inappropriate activities by employees.
