Report on corporate governance Compliance with the Code The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year, the Company complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the FSA, with a small number of exceptions, referred to and explained below.
The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and adopted by the FSA for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
Although it is not yet required to do so by the Listing Rules, the Board takes the view that, where possible, it should comply with the New Combined Code the Code early.
Application of principles of good governance The Board and its committees The Board currently comprises four executive and three non-executive directors.
The executive directors are responsible for the management of all the Groups business activities.
The non-executive directors are all independent of management and contribute independent judgement and extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
Two of the non-executive directors, Charles Scott and Gareth Jones, are regarded to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
G Stanley Thomas, while independent of management, has a significant interest in the shares of the Company, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
As at the date of this report, a search is under way for a third independent non-executive director.
The Board takes the view that the appointment of a third independent non-executive director will provide an appropriate balance, having regard to the size of the Group, its management structure and the composition of the Board.
Since the year end, the non-executive directors have entered into service contracts which specify the term of their appointment and the expected time commitment.
During the year, the Board met seven times.
All of the directors attended all of the meetings with the exception of Larry Gouldthorpe who, by reason of his being based in the USA, was excused from three of the seven meetings, and the Chairman, who was unable to attend one of the meetings.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, including but not limited to matters of a strategic nature, major changes to the Groups capital structure, the recommendation or declaration of dividends, the entry into contracts which are material strategically or by reason of size, appointments to the Board, ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls, reviewing its own and its committees performance and reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
During the year, the Chairman met with the other non-executive directors on a number of occasions without the executive directors present.
The non-executive directors and the Chief Executive meet at least once a year to appraise the effectiveness of the board and its committees and to discuss succession planning.
The non-executive directors meet regularly without the Chairman present to evaluate his performance.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed, and for advising the Board on governance matters.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if necessary.
The Board is assisted by four committees, whose work is summarised below.
The minutes of meetings, and or reports from the chairmen, of the committees are made available to the Board for its scheduled meeting next following the committee meeting in question, or otherwise as soon as practicable thereafter.
While, strictly, the composition of the Audit and Nomination Committees was not in compliance with the Code following the resignation of Tim Simon, this is intended to be addressed on the appointment of a new non-executive director.
Audit Committee chaired by Charles Scott the senior independent director and also comprising Gareth Jones, the Audit Committee meets at least twice a year, with the Groups internal auditors and with the external auditors at separate meetings, to review the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its internal financial controls, and to consider any matters raised by the auditors.
The Audit Committee receives a written statement from the auditors at least annually, setting out the service provided by them to the Group, which assists the Committee in ensuring that the auditors independence and objectivity are maintained.
During the year, the Audit Committee adopted a new policy on the procurement of non-audit work, with the specific objective of ensuring that, where the auditors were allowed to tender due to their expertise in a particular matter, the nature of the work presented no threat to the independence of the audit team.
The Committee met three times during the year and all of its members attended all three meetings, with the exception of Gareth Jones, who attended two.
Operations Audit Committee chaired by Gareth Jones and also comprising Keith Brooks, Caroline Price and Paul Kehoe, the Operations Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to review the Groups safety practices and procedures, operational risk management policies and internal operational controls.
The Committee met twice during the year and all of its members attended both meetings.
Remuneration Committee chaired by Charles Scott, the Remuneration Committee, of which G Stanley Thomas and Gareth Jones are also members, meets at least once a year, but in practice two or three times, to review executive directors remuneration and to consider the Groups remuneration policies.
The Committee met twice during the year and all of its members attended both meetings, except G Stanley Thomas, who attended one of the meetings.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 66 67 Report on corporate governance continued Nomination Committee chaired by Gareth Jones and also comprising Keith Brooks, the Nomination Committee meets at least once a year to review the structure of the Board and, as appropriate, consider candidates for appointment to the Board.
Having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the Nomination Committee has prepared a specification of the capabilities required of the non-executive director currently being recruited, which has been endorsed by the Board and communicated to the external search consultancy engaged to identify and put forward candidates.
The Committee met once during the year and both its members attended.
The Board intends to invite the third non-executive director, following his or her appointment, to become a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Directors remuneration The quantum and components of executive directors remuneration are determined by the Remuneration Committee in the light of the policies referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31.
The Committee is responsible for establishing the contract terms, salaries, pensions and other benefits of the executive directors, including performance-related bonuses and longterm incentives.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great importance to communications with all shareholders.
Enquiries from shareholders are dealt with as promptly as practicable and all shareholders receive copies of the annual financial statements and interim report.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to provide a full review of the Groups progress during the year and for shareholders to put questions to the directors, and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced at the meeting.
The Chairman maintains regular contact with major shareholders and ensures that the Board is apprised of their views.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director also meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers, and keep the Board informed about their views through board reports and copies of brokers notes.
The Board takes the view that, by these means, it receives a sufficiently frequent and clear impression of the views of shareholders: Charles Scott, as senior independent director, makes himself available to discuss issues with shareholders where the normal lines of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have failed to resolve them or would, in the circumstances, be inappropriate.
Accountability and Audit The Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness not only of the Groups system of internal financial control, but also of its internal operational controls.
Procedures have been in place throughout the year to ensure full compliance with this requirement.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Groups system of internal control accords with the Codes guidance and has been regularly reviewed by the Board throughout the year.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups Business Risk Assurance Department, which comprises both operational and financial audit functions, reports regularly to the Audit Committee, Operations Audit Committee and to the Board on significant risks and safety issues and the action taken to manage them.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations throughout the world with a corporate risk management policy and strategy with documented lines of responsibility, a global risk database and risk registers, compliance audit strategies for overseas locations, Group standards in airfield operations and finance and tools for risk identification.
Statements of the responsibilities of the directors and the auditors are set out on pages 63 and 64.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis since the directors have reasonable expectation that, firstly, the Companys and Groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that adequate resources are available to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004
