The Davis Service Group Plc 15 Report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, contains both principles and detailed provisions of corporate governance.
The Code was introduced with effect from 1st November 2003 and we were required to comply from 1st January 2004.
Board balance and independence The Code includes criteria for ensuring that the composition of the board is refreshed on a cyclical basis.
Both Neil Benson and John Burns have served on the board longer than nine years.
John Burns was re-elected in 2003 for a term of three years and Neil Benson was re-elected in 2004 for a maximum period of two years.
In his statement last year the Chairman described the changes to the board which it envisaged would take place during 2004 and 2005.
Philip Rogerson joined the board in June 2004 and Per Utnegaard joined in January 2005.
As announced in the Chairmans statement John Ivey is to retire as Chief Executive on 30th April 2005 and is to be replaced by Roger Dye with effect from 1st May 2005.
The search for a new Finance Director has been started.
In addition, Neil Benson will retire from the board on 30th April 2005.
He is to be succeeded as Chairman by Christopher Kemball and Philip Rogerson will replace Christopher Kemball as the Senior Independent Director.
John Burns will stay on to provide necessary continuity but the board will be looking for one further new non-executive during 2005 in order to complete the board change process.
The board believes by 2006 that the programme of renewal will be complete and the membership of the board will be fully compliant with the revised provisions of the Code.
The board consider that this is an appropriate timeframe for the number of changes involved.
Until such time as these board changes are complete, the requirement for fully independent members of the board and on the nomination and audit committees will not be fully met.
Board appointment process Responsibility for the selection of new directors rests primarily with the nomination committee.
The committee has been particularly aware that the board is in the process of wide-ranging change of both non-executive and executive board members.
It undertook a careful evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience leaving the board together with a strategic review of the skills required, particularly in Europe, for the future.
Different rms of external consultants were appointed to search for non-executive directors and the successor to John Ivey as Chief Executive.
The consultants assisted the committee in developing a description of the role, responsibilities and capabilities required and conducted a search for potential candidates.
Shortlists were drawn up in consultation with the Chairman.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the committee and, in the case of the non-executives, potential appointees each met the group executive directors.
After feedback the committee made its final recommendation to the board.
In view of the number of changes to the board no external process was commissioned in respect of the selection of a new Chairman on this occasion.
Christopher Kemball was appointed Senior Independent Director in April 2003 and Deputy Chairman in December 2003 and therefore provides both the requisite knowledge of the group and the necessary continuity in ofce.
Composition of the board The board currently comprises three executive and five non-executive directors including the Chairman who is responsible for running the board.
Three of the five non-executive directors identied on page 14 provide a strong independent element on the board being free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Christopher Kemball is currently the senior independent director.
Operation of the board The board, which routinely meets six times a year, with additional meetings being called as and when required, carries the ultimate responsibility for the conduct of The Davis Service Group business.
Prior to each board meeting an agenda, together with supporting papers, is circulated to directors to ensure they are supplied, in a timely fashion, with all the information they need.
Included with these papers are detailed monthly accounts, together with appropriate financial analyses.
The monthly accounts and financial analyses are also circulated in those months in which no routine board meeting is held.
The three principal committees of the board are the remuneration committee, the audit committee and the nomination committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are set by the board and have been reviewed in the light of the revisions to the Code.
They are available for inspection upon request to the Company Secretary.
The membership of these committees, details of which are set out on page 14, is composed of non-executive directors with the exception of the nomination committee on which John Ivey serves.
Roger Dye will succeed John Ivey on the nomination committee on 1st May 2005.
John Ivey and Roger Dye attend the remuneration and the audit committee meetings respectively by invitation.
Minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to and reviewed by the board.
Responsibility of the board The terms of reference and matters reserved to the board are complemented by a formal document of delegated authority to the boards of our divisions.
Trading companies are managed by separate boards of directors.
John Ivey and Roger Dye are directors of all UK trading subsidiaries and either of them attends the majority of Berendsen board meetings.
The schedule of matters reserved for the boards decision includes the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions, disposals, the annual budget, major capital expenditure and significant nancing matters.
The time commitments of each board member are considered before their appointment or, in the case of executive directors, before permission is granted for them to hold outside directorships.
All directors have the right to seek external professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the expense of the company and have unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The company has purchased insurance to cover its directors and ofcers against their costs of defending themselves if civil legal proceedings were taken against them and in respect of damages resulting from an unsuccessful defence of any such proceedings unless the director or officer were found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Davis Service Group Plc 16 Report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement continued Evaluation and development of board performance As a basis for making an initial assessment of their performance and to help develop the selection criteria for new members, the board had regard to a self-evaluation questionnaire prepared by the National Association of Corporate Directors.
The process to select and appoint two new non-executive directors and a new Chief Executive has itself stimulated considerable level of review of the way the board should operate.
This process will continue as the programme of board change is completed.
A formal board evaluation will be undertaken later this year once the new board is in place.
Board members are committed to updating their skills and knowledge.
In addition to personal reading, members of the board have attended specic courses and share selected brieng materials in order to keep up to date with corporate developments.
Board members are willing to undertake additional training if the evaluation process indicates this would be beneficial.
Internal control The board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control comprises financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate those risks associated with the achievement of business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Code includes a requirement that the directors review, at least annually, the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The group maintained effective procedures consistent with the guidance throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The board has ratied managements assessments of the principal risks to the group and the management procedures in place to control these risks.
The board places emphasis on ensuring that a balanced risk culture exists in its divisions rather than solely conducting periodic reviews.
This culture is demonstrated by an open style of communication which enables issues to be identied and corrective actions put in place.
Appropriate reporting and follow-up procedures ensure that the impact of these identied risks is minimised.
Audit committee and auditors During the year Phillip Rogerson, a chartered accountant, joined the committee, thus providing a further degree of financial expertise.
The committee has met, with full attendance, three times in the year.
As standing agenda items the committee receives an update on risks, considers reports issued by the internal audit department, and reviews the appropriateness and timeliness of management responses thereto.
The committee has reviewed the effectiveness internal audit function and is satisfied with the capacity and coverage of the work undertaken.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors has been reviewed.
In particular the level and nature of non-audit work commissioned from the audit rms is monitored to safeguard their independence and objectivity.
The lead audit engagement partner is invited to each meeting of the committee to apprise the committee of relevant accounting and reporting developments and to be apprised of the matters referred to above.
In addition the committee chairman meets separately at least once a year with the lead audit engagement partner.
Independent whistleblowing procedures are being implemented in the first quarter of 2005 to enable staff to report in confidence any possible improprieties and for the matters to be independently investigated and appropriately followed up.
Report on directors remuneration The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 17 to 20.
Shareholder relations John Ivey and Roger Dye regularly meet with institutional shareholders and analysts.
All investors have the opportunity to meet the directors at the annual general meeting and the Chairman and Deputy Chairman have, on request, made themselves available to shareholders at other times.
It is the companys practice to propose separate resolutions at the annual general meeting on each separate issue.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting the level of proxies lodged together with the balance for and against each resolution will be announced after it has been dealt with on a show of hands unless a poll is called for.
Copies of the details of the proxy voting will be available to shareholders after the meeting on receipt of a written request addressed to the Company Secretary at the registered ofce.
Pension funds A number of pension plans operate within the group.
The principal UK scheme is The Davis Service Group Retirement Benets Scheme.
This scheme has five trustees Roger Dye, one other member of management who is not a director of the company and three member nominated individuals, two of whom are pensioners.
The power of appointment of new trustees is vested in the trustees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the group and are independently managed on a fully discretionary basis.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by auditors other than those of The Davis Service Group Plc.
Outside the UK, the majority of the pension plans are of a dened contribution nature, some of which are integrated into government schemes and managed outside the group.
Compliance Except for the completion of both the programme of change to membership of the board and making a whistleblowing procedure available to all employees, the company was in compliance with the provisions of the Code during the period ended 31st December 2004.
By order of the board D F Batchelor Secretary 24th February 2005
