Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to attaining high standards of corporate governance in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code published in June 1998 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code was amended and a revised Code introduced for the financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the New Code.
This report together with the information set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 23 to 37 is published pursuant to the Combined Code.
The Board has carried out a rigorous review of its procedures in light of the New Code and has implemented a number of changes, including changes to the composition of the Board Committees, a review of the Committees Terms of Reference, the establishment of an induction programme for new Directors as well as improved communication with shareholders as evidenced by a new corporate website which was launched early in 2004.
This report sets out how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the code provisions set out in the Combined Code during the year, with additional references to the New Code where relevant.
Statement of Compliance The Company complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except where indicated in this statement.
In summary these areas relate to: for a part of the year, the composition of Non-executive Directors on the Board fell below the required one-third: for a part of the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee was an Executive Director.
An explanation of the circumstances that resulted in this is given in this report.
As at the year end, the Company was in full compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board believes that there is already substantial compliance with the New Code and is committed to an ongoing programme of review and improvement of its corporate governance framework which will be reported further in next years report.
The Board and Directors The Board currently comprises eight directors including the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director, three further Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Brief biographies appear on pages 18 to 19.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Managing Director are separately held and there is a clear division of responsibilities between them.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The Group Managing Director has day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the Groups businesses.
His role is to develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
Mr Tony Palmer was appointed Senior Independent Director on 5 December 2003 following the resignation of Mr Fred Wellings, who had held ofce as a Non-executive Director for nine years.
Mr Tony Palmer has a wealth of experience and a good understanding of the housebuilding and construction sectors.
With the resignation of Mr Fred Wellings, the proportion of Non-executive Directors fell below the one-third required by the Combined Code.
The Board considered this to be a temporary lapse, as the search for two additional Non-executive Directors had already commenced and was rectied on the appointment of Mr David Howell, FCA, who joined the Board on 24 February 2004.
Major shareholders will have the opportunity to meet Mr David Howell after the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Boards previous announcements, the Board has been seeking an additional Non-executive Director to redress the balance of the Board.
An induction programme is provided for new Directors, which includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the Group, one to one meetings with all Directors and key staff as well as visits to major sites.
No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for pre-determined compensation on termination.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
co. uk The Companys existing Articles of Association need to be brought up to date to take account of recent regulatory and other changes, including the requirement for Directors to submit themselves for re-election every three years, in accordance with the New Code.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to adopt entirely new articles at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors being proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting have notice periods not exceeding 12 months.
Mr David Howell has a contract renewable on 1 May each year.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole.
These include the commercial strategy, the annual budget, share capital changes, approval of interim and annual results, dividend policy and corporate governance matters.
Formal Board meetings were held five times during the year under review.
During the year, there were no absences from any Board meetings by any Director except Mr Greg Fry who was unavoidably unable to attend the June 2003 and April 2004 Board meetings.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors meet with the Group Chairman during the months not covered by a Board meeting.
The Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director were invited to attend to provide an update on the business activities of the Group.
In future, the Non-executive Directors will meet at least annually without the Group Chairman present.
Board papers and agendas are sent out a week prior to each meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
On a monthly basis, all Executive and Non-executive Directors receive a detailed Group management accounts pack that reports the actual and forecast financial performance in addition to other key performance indicators across the Group.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advisers, at the Companys expense, where specic expertise is required in the course of their duties.
In addition to the induction programme for new Directors, an ongoing training programme is being prepared, in consultation with and tailored to each Director.
The evaluation of individual Directors performance is carried out on a continuous basis.
More formalised processes for evaluating the performance of the Board and its Committees, as well as individual Directors performance, are being evolved in light of the requirements of the New Code.
This process is being led by the Senior Independent Director and Chairman, who are currently determining the scope and criteria for an evaluation which will be carried out in the current year.
The Board has delegated certain matters to individual executives and to specic Committees of the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board Committees are described below.
Board Committees Executive Committee The Executive Committee reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group divisions and companies.
The Group Managing Director chairs this Committee and other members comprise the Group Chairman, Mr Roger Lewis and Messrs. Tony Carey, Greg Fry and Rob Perrins.
The Committee meets on a monthly basis.
The following three Board Committees operate within clearly dened terms of reference that have recently been refreshed pursuant to the New Code.
The Terms of Reference can be found on the Investor Relations pages of the Companys website www.
Copies are also available to shareholders on application to the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee plays an important role in corporate governance by undertaking the following key responsibilities: monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting of the Company, including its annual and interim reports and other formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and disclosure of statements concerning these in the Annual Report: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including appointment, removal and fees, and ensuring the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process: reviewing whistle blowing arrangements.
co. uk Corporate Governance continued During the year, the Committee adopted new Terms of Reference in line with best practice.
The Committee also adopted a new policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services in order to safeguard auditor independence.
The policy introduced a pre-determined limit above which Audit Committee approval is required and identies certain areas of work from which the auditors are precluded.
Tax and due diligence services are provided by a small number of different rms, including the Groups auditors.
The auditors may be used for such services where their knowledge of the business is such that they are deemed the most appropriate supplier.
Notwithstanding these safeguards, all non-audit work carried out by the auditors is notied to the Audit Committee Chairman on an ongoing basis and formally reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The Committee currently comprises the three independent Non-executive Directors, with Mr David Howell, FCA, as Chairman.
On the resignation of Mr Fred Wellings from the Board and from the position of Audit Committee Chairman in December 2003, Mr Roger Lewis, FCA, the Executive Chairman was appointed interim chairman of the Audit Committee pending appointment of a new Non-executive Director with appropriate skills.
No meetings were held after the resignation of Mr Wellings and prior to the appointment of Mr Lewiss successor.
Mr David Howell was appointed a Non-executive Director and as chairman of the Audit Committee in February 2004.
Mr David Howell has relevant and recent experience in finance having qualied as a chartered accountant in 1971 and is currently the Chief Financial officer and a Main Board Director of lastminute.
Previously Mr David Howell was Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 2000 to 2003.
The Committee met three times in the year and there were no absences.
The Committee normally requests the attendance of the Group Finance Director and representatives of the auditors.
The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Audit Committee also has a role in reviewing the Groups progress with its International Financial Reporting Standards Implementation Project.
The Council of the European Union announced in June 2002 that listed companies will have to report in accordance with International Reporting Standards with effect from accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
For The Berkeley Group, the first year of adoption will be for the financial year beginning 1 May 2005.
Since 2002, both UK and International Standards have undergone a period of change to assist harmonisation for 2005.
During 2003, the Group commenced its project to assess the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS, performing an initial impact assessment and reviewing its financial reporting systems.
A detailed assessment of the effect of the change on the Groups capital and reserves and reported net profit is now underway.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys policy for executive remuneration and the precise terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 23 to 37.
The Committee is chaired by Mrs Victoria Mitchell and comprises the Non-executive Directors, these being at the date of this report Messrs. Tony Palmer and David Howell.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Group Managing Director and the Group Finance Director attend the Committee by invitation and the Committee takes into consideration their recommendations regarding the remuneration of their executive colleagues.
During the year, the Committee met formally on four occasions and there were no absences.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her remuneration.
The Executive Directors decide the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was primarily established to propose new appointments to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning.
In light of the New Code, the Board reviewed the composition, structure and Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee and the Group Managing Director resigned from his position on the Nominations Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, Mr Roger Lewis save in the event of discussions relating to his own succession with Mr Tony Palmer and Mrs Victoria Mitchell as Independent Non-executive members.
The Committee meets at such times as required to carry out the duties of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee met formally on three occasions and there were no absences.
Independent recruitment specialists were appointed to assist the Committee in the search criteria and the selection process for the new Non-executive Director, Mr David Howell and the ongoing selection of a fourth Non-executive Director.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 23 to 37.
co. uk Key risks and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control, which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this system of internal control during the year as part of its year end procedures.
The Group has the following established framework of internal controls: Clear organisational structure The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own board.
Each of the divisions has a Director who is a member of the Group Board.
Operating company boards meet formally on a weekly basis and divisional boards monthly.
Information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover each aspect of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and oversight of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels through the Group.
Risk assessment Risk reporting is embedded within the ongoing management reporting throughout the Group.
At operating company and divisional level, board meeting agendas and packs are structured around the key risks facing the Group.
These include sales demand risk, production risk build cost and programme, land and planning risk as well as a review of specic site risks.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly risk and control reports that identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
These risk reports are reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Financial reporting A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both profit and cash, operates within the Group.
This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more formal reporting up to the Group Executive and Board is prepared.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate.
Training to staff is given where necessary.
Investment and contracting controls The Group has clearly dened guidelines for the purchase and sale of land within the Group, which include detailed environmental, planning and financial appraisal and are subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also followed for the selection of consultants and contractors.
The review and monitoring of all build programmes and budgets are a fundamental element of the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Internal audit Internal auditors are in place in each division and at Group to provide assurance on the operation of the Groups control framework.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings between institutional investors and senior management and ad hoc presentations to institutional investors.
Also, in the year under review, the Company engaged in detailed consultation with shareholders and institutional shareholder bodies over its Remuneration Policy.
The policy was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company in February 2004 by 94% of the votes cast.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
In addition, a new corporate website was developed in the year, which gives enhanced information on the Group and latest news, including regulatory announcements.
The presentations made after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results are also available on the website.
The Board is kept informed of the views of shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and also available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
The results of the proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
co. uk Corporate Governance continued The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Following publication of Paul Myners report on the findings and recommendations of the Shareholder Voting Working Group in February 2004, the Company is committed to providing electronic voting facilities as early as possible for shareholders who hold their shares through Crest.
However, the Companys existing Articles of Association require amendment in order for this service to be offered.
This will be addressed by the proposal to adopt new articles at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern After making proper enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and its subsidiary undertakings will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of The Berkeley Group plc website is the responsibility of the Company: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
