CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance and is responsible for good governance.
This report outlines how the principles of The Combined Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate Governance were applied, unless otherwise stated, throughout the financial year.
The Directors are also aware that there are many other published guidelines relating to corporate governance and, whilst these receive due consideration, the Board does not believe it appropriate to address them individually in the Annual Report.
The Board is always available to discuss corporate governance issues with Shareholders.
THE BOARD COMPOSITION AND PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors comprises seven non-executive Directors of which Mr Hughes acts as Chairman.
The Board carefully considers guidance on independence of non-executive Directors including views that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service is longer than currently recommended.
All Directors are considered to be independent notwithstanding that Messrs Hughes and Shaw have sat on the Board for more than 9 years.
The Board has decided to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Articles of Association, The Combined Code and the AITC Code by having all Directors, if appropriate, seek re-election annually, as opposed to every three years.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these rms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor the investment performance of the Company compared to its benchmark index and in relation to comparable investment trusts.
The Directors also review the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy.
As the Board comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors, there is neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts an annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company.
As previously announced, Mr Hughes, having served as Chairman for 14 years, will not seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting and Mr Shaw will then assume the role of Chairman.
Mr Shaw, on his appointment as Chairman, will not fully comply with the independence criteria set out in The Combined Code as he has been a member of the Board for more than 9 years.
In reaching this decision, the Board reviewed its structure, including the balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors and their length of service, where continuity and experience can add signicantly to the strength of the Board.
During 2003, the Board recognised the need to appoint one or two new Directors.
Possible new directors are identied against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
The Board, in conjunction with the Secretaries, prepared a list of prospective candidates.
Following a discussion, three candidates were short listed and were initially interviewed by the Chairman and Mr Shaw.
Following their recommendation, two candidates were then interviewed by the remaining members of the Board.
Following further consideration, the Board agreed the appointment of Prof Marsh and Dr Nimmo as Directors of the Company with effect from 16 July 2004.
Given the quality of prospective candidates, the Board agreed that it was not necessary to appoint external search consultants nor use open advertising on this occasion.
23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board undertakes an annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Investment Manager.
The Directors also evaluate collectively the performance of each Director.
Each Directors performance continues to be effective and each remains committed to the Company.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 24 February 2005.
Messrs Buchan, Chiappelli, Cran and Shaw, whose biographical details are shown on page 6, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
New Directors are subject to election by the Shareholders at the first General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter at each subsequent AGM.
Prof Marsh and Dr Nimmo therefore offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company although no Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
The following table sets out the number of Directors meetings including Committee meetings held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
During the financial year, 5 Board meetings and 3 Audit and Management Engagement Committee meetings were held.
Audit and Management Board of Directors Engagement Committee Director Held Attended Held Attended W Y Hughes, Chairman 55 H N Buchan 5 5 3 3 1 M L A Chiappelli 55 3 3 J E G Cran 5 5 3 3 2 Prof P R Marsh 22 3 K M Miller 22 2 Dr W S Nimmo 22 D R Shaw 5 5 1 1 1 2 3 Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee appointed on 16 July 2004 retired on 25 February 2004 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company was formed to, and continues to, invest in a portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
The Board believes that regular contact with Shareholders, the majority of whom are institutions, is essential.
The Managers meet most of the institutional Shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company periodically meet institutional Shareholders and are always available for discussion with any Shareholder.
Consequently the Company does not consider it necessary to designate one person as the senior independent director.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on page 6.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
As mentioned above, the Managers meet major Shareholders regularly to update them and in addition Company performance and other relevant information is available on Aberforth Partners website at www.
The Company applies the guidance published by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Combined Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Directors have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
At least once a year the Directors formally review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and this process principally comprises receiving and examining reports from the rms to which services are subcontracted, detailing the internal control objectives and procedures adopted by each rm.
Each report has been reviewed by the respective rms auditors.
The Directors have not identied any significant problems in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
The Directors have appointed an Audit and Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Mr Chiappelli, a Chartered Accountant.
There is a range of recent and relevant financial experience amongst the members of the Committee.
This Committee, of which Messrs Buchan and Cran are also members, specically considers the financial reporting by the Company, the internal control principles adopted and the relationship with the Companys auditors.
In addition, it reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 1,000 and related to the provision of taxation services.
Notwithstanding such services, the Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of the Company.
The Committee considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function.
However, as the Company has no employees and subcontracts all its business to third parties, it believes that an internal audit function is not necessary.
This Committee also formally reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually and details are set out in the Directors Report.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee and the Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
VOTING POLICY AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Company is a shareholder in approximately 100 small companies ofcially listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Managers, Aberforth Partners.
Aberforth Partners exercise these voting rights on every resolution which is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company has invested.
Aberforth Partners vote against resolutions that they believe may damage Shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with the management of the company concerned.
Day to day management of the Companys portfolio of investments is carried out by Aberforth Partners.
The Directors are aware that the Managers give consideration to environmental issues, among many other factors, when investment decisions are taken.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE Subject to the special circumstances of the Company as an investment trust, the Company has complied with the provisions of The Combined Code during the financial year subject to the following exceptions: i there is no designated senior independent director: ii Mr Shaw will not fully comply with the independence criteria on his proposed appointment as Chairman and iii neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee has been established.
These issues are explained above.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AITC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The AITCs Code of Corporate Governance complements The Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for boards of investment trusts.
The Company as a member of the AITC has complied with the provisions of The AITC Code of Corporate Governance during the financial year.
