BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Corporate governance Governance Framework BG Group has an established governance NYSE corporate governance standards THE BOARD framework built upon our Statement of approved by the US Securities and The Board is responsible for setting the Business Principles and the supporting Exchange Commission SEC in November Group strategy and providing leadership Group Policies.
The Group Policy on 2003, foreign private issuers, such as within a governance framework which it corporate governance describes how BG Group, are obliged to disclose any oversees.
This responsibility extends to the Group is directed and controlled.
significant ways in which their corporate ensuring that the appropriate level of governance practices differ from those financial and human resources are made The governance framework, which is followed by US domestic companies available to management in the delivery overseen by the Board of Directors, under NYSE listing standards.
of the agreed strategy, whilst also taking consists of three core elements: the oversight responsibility for financial organisational structure, the Groups The Directors consider that there are no performance, internal controls and risk internal control framework and the significant differences in the corporate management of the Group.
governance practices followed by BG Group compared to those required of US A list detailing the matters specifically This report sets out how the governance domestic companies listed on the NYSE.
reserved to the Board for approval is set framework is implemented across the Group out on page 40. and, accordingly, the extent to which the SEC STATEMENT ON CONTROLS Board of Directors believes that the Group AND PROCEDURES Directors complies with the corporate governance The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial The Board is made up of a non-executive requirements of the principal regulators in Officer have evaluated the effectiveness Chairman, the Chief Executive, Deputy the UK and the USA and the exchanges on of the Groups disclosure controls and Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer which the Groups shares are listed.
procedures as defined in the Securities and eight independent non-executive Exchange Act 1934, Rule 13a 15 e as Directors.
A list of the individual Directors, A statement of the Directors at 31 December 2004, the end of the their biographies and details of their responsibilities for preparing the Financial period covered by this Annual Report.
committee membership is provided on Statements, including a statement As a result of that evaluation, they pages 44 and 45.
Collectively, the Board regarding the status of the Company as a 39 have concluded that, as of such date, believes it possesses all of the necessary going concern, is set out on page 50.
The the Groups disclosure controls and range of qualities, skills and experience statement from the independent external procedures were effective.
to lead the Company effectively.
auditors on their reporting responsibilities to shareholders and their audit opinion on In addition, the Directors confirm that The posts of the Chairman and the the accounts are on page 61. there were no changes in the Groups Chief Executive are separated and their internal controls over financial reporting responsibilities are clearly established, set COMPLIANCE STATEMENT WITH THE that occurred during the year ended out in writing and have been agreed by PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE 31 December 2004 that have materially the Board.
The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, The Companys shares are listed on the affected, or are reasonably likely to is responsible for the workings and London Stock Exchange LSE and it is affect, the Groups internal control leadership of the Board and for the balance required to comply with the Listing Rules over financial reporting.
of its membership, subject to Board and of the UK Listing Authority UKLA.
The Chief Executive, Listing Rules require companies listed in SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 2002 Frank Chapman, is responsible for leading the UK to include a statement on corporate SARBANES-OXLEY and managing the business within the governance in their annual reports.
That Sarbanes-Oxley was implemented to authorities delegated by the Board.
The statement must include an explanation of protect investors by improving the independent non-executive Directors help how BG Group has applied the principles accuracy and reliability of corporate develop strategy and review and monitor set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code disclosure by US domestic companies the performance of management, the and whether or not it has complied and foreign private issuers.
A project integrity of financial information and throughout the year with its provisions.
was initiated during 2003 to ensure control and risk management.
They are also compliance with the reporting The Directors consider that the Company responsible for executive remuneration and requirements prescribed by Section 404 has complied throughout the year ended Board succession.
of Sarbanes-Oxley relating to internal 31 December 2004 with the provisions of controls over financial reporting.
Progress Keith Mackrell is the Deputy Chairman Section 1 of the Combined Code.
on that project is well advanced.
and is also the Senior Independent Further details of how the principles of Director nominated by the Board.
He is GMI REPORT the Combined Code have been applied available to shareholders as an alternative In a 2004 report by Governance Metrics during the year are set out below.
point of contact to the Chairman, Chief International GMI, a global corporate Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
US CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RULES governance ratings agency, BG Group The Companys shares are also listed on was among the top UK companies.
All Directors are subject to election by the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in The report also compared more than shareholders at the first AGM following the form of American Depositary Shares 2 600 companies worldwide and their appointment by the Board.
and therefore it is also required to comply BG Group was given a rating of nine Thereafter, in accordance with the with the NYSEs listing rules.
Under the out of a possible ten.
Combined Code and the Companys BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Corporate governance Governance Framework continued Articles of Association, they are subject to committees and between senior re-election at least once every three years.
management and non-executive Directors: Matters reserved to the Board and facilitating induction and assisting 1 Approval of the Group vision, BG Group maintains, for its Directors and with the professional development of values and overall governance officers, liability insurance with a cover framework.
The Company Secretary is also limit of $250 million for each claim or series responsible for advising the Board through 2 Approval of the Companys of claims against them in that capacity.
The Annual Report, Remuneration the Chairman on all governance matters.
Company also indemnifies its Directors and Report and Accounts and officers to the extent permitted by law.
Any Director who believes that it may be Quarterly Financial Statements.
necessary in the furtherance of his or her 3 Approval of any interim dividend Director independence duties, may take independent professional and recommendation of the In the opinion of the Board, each of its final dividend.
advice at the cost of the Group.
non-executive Directors is independent in 4 Approval of Group financial policy.
In accordance Board meetings 5 Approval of material capital with the guidelines set out in the Wherever possible, the Directors are projects, investments, Combined Code, none of the Companys expected to attend all Board meetings acquisitions and disposals by non-executive Directors: and the AGM.
has been an employee of the Company 6 Approval of the Companys longThe Board has regular scheduled meetings term finance plan and annual or Group within the last five years: throughout the year.
Additional meetings capital and revenue budget.
of the Board are held as and when deemed has, or has had within the last three 7 Approval of any significant necessary.
During the year ended years, a material business relationship change in Group accounting 31 December 2004, the Board met nine with the Company either directly, or as policies or practices.
A table detailing the individual a partner, shareholder, director or senior 8 Approval of all circulars, listing Directors attendance at each of the employee of a body that has such a particulars, resolutions and Companys Board and Board committee corresponding documentation relationship with the Company: sent to shareholders.
meetings is set out on page 43.
In addition 40 has received or receives additional to those meetings, the Board focuses on 9 Approval of changes in the capital remuneration from the Company apart BG Groups strategy at an annual two structure of the Company or its from a directors fee, participates in the status as a plc and, in particular, day planning conference.
the issue or allotment of shares in Companys share option or a performancethe Company otherwise than Guidelines are in place concerning the related pay scheme, or is a member of the pursuant to Company-approved content, timeliness and presentation of Companys pension scheme: employee share schemes.
Board and committee papers to Directors 10 Approval of material changes to has close family ties with any of from management to ensure that they the Companys pension schemes the Companys advisers, Directors are properly briefed.
rules, any change of Trustee or or senior employees: material changes to funding and Board effectiveness management arrangements.
holds cross-directorships or has Directors induction and professional 11 Appointment, re-appointmentand significant links with other Directors development removal of the Chairman and through involvement in other companies All new Directors appointed to the Board Directors and the recommendation or bodies: to shareholders of their election or receive an induction briefing tailored to re-election under the Articles of their individual needs, taking into account represents a significant shareholder: or Association: the appointment and their qualifications and experience.
removal of the Company Secretary.
has served on the Board for more Ongoing professional development is 12 Approval of the division of than nine years from the date of their provided to Directors to meet their responsibilities between the first election, with the exception of particular requirements.
During 2004, Chairman and Chief Executive.
regular briefings were given to all Directors 13 Establishing committees of the on relevant issues including legislative, Keith Mackrell, who has served on the Board, approving their terms of reference including corporate governance and financial Board for ten years, is considered to membership and financial reporting matters such as the introduction retain independence of character and authority, reviewing their judgement by the Board, notwithstanding of International Financial Reporting activities and, where appropriate, Standards.
Workshops, seminars and that period of service.
teach-ins on issues specifically relating to 14 Recommendation to shareholders Company Secretary BG Groups business were also organised.
for the appointment, On 9 November 2004, the Board approved re-appointment or removal the appointment of Ben Mathews as Board evaluation of the auditors.
All Directors have full During the year, a comprehensive and 15 Approval of this schedule of access to the advice and services of the rigorous evaluation was conducted of the Matters reserved to the Board.
Company Secretary, who is responsible to performance of the Board, its principal the Board for: ensuring that correct Board committees, individual Directors and the procedures are followed: ensuring effective Chairman.
The Board evaluation was led communication flows within the Board, its by the Chairman and supported by the BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 BG Group Board and committee structure BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT CHAIRMANS REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CORPORATE FINANCE GROUP EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Investment Committee Exploration Committee Business Development Committee Health, Safety, Security and Environment Committee Policy and Risk Committee Energy Trading Risk Committee 41 Company Secretary using a detailed Mackrell, the Senior Independent Director with the opportunity to ask questions of questionnaire and a series of one-to-one and included interviews with each member the full Board of Directors.
Full details of interviews between the Chairman and each of the Board.
the AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM non-executive Director.
The questionnaire on pages 140 to 145.
The Directors have concluded that the focused on matters such as Group strategy, Board and its committees operate Organisational structure performance, delegation and accountability, effectively and consider that each Director Under the governance framework, the corporate responsibility, succession, is contributing to the overall effectiveness Board has established an organisational relations with shareholders, development and success of the Group.
structure which is designed to allow for and reward, Board and committee effective and efficient decision-making composition, Board induction and Relationship with shareholders and across the organisation.
The Board has professional development, Board Annual General Meeting delegated authority to the committees communication, internal control and risk The Board of Directors is committed to, and described below on specific matters, which management.
The results of the reviews recognises the importance of, maintaining are set out in their terms of reference.
were considered during one-to-one an ongoing relationship based on regular These authorities are reviewed annually discussions with the Chairman and disclosure with the Companys shareholders.
The terms of reference of The BG Group website is updated with all collectively at a Board meeting and the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations applicable committee meetings.
announcements and presentations as and Committees are published on the when they are released and also contains The performance of individual nonCompanys website and copies are available investor relations information, which is executive Directors was evaluated by the on request.
Minutes of committee updated on a regular basis.
The Company Chairman, with input from the committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
also holds regular meetings with institutional chairmen and the Executive Directors.
shareholders following the announcementof Detailed above is the BG Group Board The performance of the Chief Executive quarterly and annual results.
In addition, the and committee structure.
The current is evaluated by the Chairman and nonBoard monitors the views of shareholders membership of each of the principal executive Directors.
The performance and the Chairman and non-executive committees is shown on page 42. of the two other Executive Directors is Directors are also given the opportunity evaluated by the Chief Executive in to meet institutional shareholders.
consultation with the Chairman and other non-executive Directors.
The evaluation of The Companys AGM will be held on 4 May the Chairman was defined and led by Keith this year.
The AGM provides shareholders BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Corporate governance Governance Framework continued Board committees Set out below are reports from each of the During the year ended 31 December 2004, During the year ended 31 December 2004, principal Board committees: the principal activities of the Committee the Committee: included consideration of the following: evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge Audit Committee quarterly, interim and full year and experience on the Board and prepared Comprises Lord Sharman Chairman, Peter financial results: a description of the role and capabilities Backhouse, Elwyn Eilledge, Keith Mackrell required for planning Board succession: and, since 27 January 2005, Baroness Hogg.
the 2004 internal audit plan: The Secretary to the Committee is Ben identified, using external boardroom Mathews.
All members of the Committee quarterly and full year internal control search consultants, potential new are deemed independent and, specifically, and assurance reports from the internal non-executive Director candidates: the Committee has concluded that its audit function: membership meets the requirements of the adopted revised Terms of Reference the effectiveness of the internal Combined Code, Sarbanes-Oxley and NYSE for the Committee: and audit function: listing rules.
During 2004, the Board recommended to the Board the reviewed the membership of the the effectiveness of the external appointment of Baroness Hogg as a Committee and has determined that Lord audit process: non-executive Director of the Company.
Sharman and Elwyn Eilledge are the Audit the independence and objectivity of the Committee financial experts for the The other Board committees are: external auditors and revisions to its policy purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. on the engagement of the external auditors Chairmans Committee The Committee assists the Board in including review and monitoring of any Comprises Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: non-audit services they provide : Keith Mackrell, Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza.
The Secretary overseeing the Groups financial reporting the budget and framework for the supply to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
The role process, including the internal control of non-audit services by the external of the Chairmans Committee is to advise structure and procedures for financial auditors, and approval of such budget and assist the Chairman in the preparation reporting and monitoring the integrity and framework: for Board meetings.
The Committee also and appropriateness of the Groups 42 the 2004 external audit plan and acts on behalf of the Board between financial statements: associated audit fees: scheduled meetings.
the manner in which the Groups the Groups internal control framework management ensures and monitors the Group Executive Committee including the risk management process adequacy of financial, operational and The Committee has primary authority for and progress on the management of key compliance internal controls and risk the day-to-day management of the Groups risks identified by the Group: management processes designed to operations within limits set by the Board.
manage significant risk exposures: It is chaired by the Chief Executive and the introduction of International Financial membership comprises the Executive Reporting Standards: the selection, compensation, Directors and those senior managers whose independence and performance of the compliance with Section 404 of the details are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Groups external auditors: and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: Secretary to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
the independence and performance the Annual Report disclosure items Finance Committee of the Groups internal auditors.
relevant to the Audit Committee: and Comprises Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, Specifically, the Audit Committee: Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley revised Terms of Reference for Almanza.
The Secretary to the Committee is the Committee.
regularly reviews the external and internal Ben Mathews.
The Committee is responsible audit work plans: for financing and treasury policy decisions.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee adopted requests, receives and reviews reports Comprises Elwyn Eilledge Chairman, Peter revised Terms of Reference.
from management on actions taken Backhouse, Paul Collins, Sir John Coles, to address risk areas identified by Dame Stella Rimington and, since Corporate Responsibility Committee management and or the internal 27 January 2005, Baroness Hogg.
The Comprises Sir John Coles Chairman and audit process: Secretary to the Committee is Ben Sir Robert Wilson.
The Secretary to the Mathews.
The Committee is responsible for receives and reviews an annual report on Committee is Ben Mathews.
Established setting, reviewing and recommending to the changes in the nature and potential in February 2005, the role of the Committee the Board for approval BG Groups overall impact of the significant risks to the is to assist the Board in providing strategic remuneration policy and strategy.
Full Group, identified at an annual Group leadership, direction and oversight and details are set out in the Remuneration Executive risk workshop, and the internal setting the policy on Corporate Report on pages 51 to 60. controls in place to manage them: and Responsibility and Health, Safety, Security and Environment within the Group.
Nominations Committee annually evaluates on behalf of the Board Comprises Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, the design and effectiveness of the Paul Collins, Dame Stella Rimington and internal control structure and procedures Keith Mackrell.
The Secretary to the of the Group for the purposes of financial Committee is Ben Mathews.
The role of the reporting and the Groups disclosure Committee is to review the structure and controls and procedures.
composition of the Board, to identify candidates to fill Board vacancies, including their election by shareholders and to review its own performance on an annual basis.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 2004 Board and committee attendance Group Chairmans Audit Finance Nominations Remuneration Executive 2 3 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 9 14 6 4 3 5 12 Sir Robert Wilson 9 14 4 3 Frank Chapman 9 9 4 10 William Friedrich 8 12 3 11 Ashley Almanza 9 13 4 10 Peter Backhouse 8 5 5 Sir John Coles 8 1 5 Paul Collins 8 1 3 5 Elwyn Eilledge 9 5 5 Keith Mackrell 9 12 5 3 1 Dame Stella Rimington 8 1 35 Lord Sharman 9 6 1 1 David Benson 2 1.
David Benson retired on 21 May 2004.
Sir John Coles, Paul Collins and Dame Stella Rimington ceased to be members on 6 May 2004.
Keith Mackrell and Lord Sharman ceased to be members on 17 March 2004.
THE INTERNAL CONTROL Similar LOAs and a Governance SelfThe business risk management process FRAMEWORK AND REVIEW Assessment GSA questionnaire are adopted has promoted both a bottom-up AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES completed by senior management to and top-down assessment of key risks.
The complement and support the LOA.
The top-down assessment has involved the Internal controls issues raised by the GSA are collated and GEC and a number of senior managers in Under the governance framework, the analysed to determine whether they identifying key Group risks.
These risks are Board is also responsible for the Groups represent a material weakness or significant communicated to the regions and assets.
system of internal control and has deficiency in the effectiveness of the oversight responsibility for the Groups The bottom-up assessment is undertaken internal control framework during the year.
These by the assets and regional management responsibilities are undertaken in In addition, the Chief Executive and the teams and aims to assess and categorise Chief Financial Officer completed an accordance with the guidance set out in their key risks using the Group categories evaluation of the Groups internal controls as a template.
This results in detailed the Combined Code and as set out in the including formal and systematic enquiries US recognised control framework, COSO analysis of risks by the assets which is of, and interviews with senior BG Group captured in the asset risk registers.
The ERM, which was adopted by the Audit executives.
This evaluation was supported Committee during 2004.
The system of risks and mitigation plans are updated by the General Counsel, Company quarterly and reviewed at quarterly internal control is designed to manage, Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit.
rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Having reviewed its effectiveness this year, BG Group views risk management Accordingly, it provides reasonable rather the Board has determined that it is not as integral to good business practice.
than absolute assurance, against material aware of any significant deficiency or Risk assessment and evaluation are loss or misstatement.
material weakness in the Groups system incorporated into the key business of internal controls.
processes including strategy and business At the end of each year, the Board, through the Chief Executive ask each member of planning, investment appraisal, Risk management performance management and health, the Group Executive Committee GEC There is a continuous process for to complete a Letter of Assurance LOA, safety, security and environmental identifying, evaluating and managing the which provides confirmation that those significant business risks faced by the management processes.
The process is functions and assets within their areas Group, which are set out on pages 35 to 38 reviewed annually by the Audit Committee of responsibility have complied with the of this report.
This process was in place on behalf of the Board and details of its role elements of the internal control framework.
throughout 2004. in this respect are set out on page 42.
