Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance Principles of Corporate Governance There are scheduled Board meetings every month to review operating, financial and risk performance, management The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and performance against key targets and objectives, and internal risk management but also as a positive contribution to business control reports.
The Board also receives presentations from prosperity.
It believes that good corporate governance involves individual business units.
applying the principles and provisions, as set out in the Combined Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings, and Code on Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial the attendance at those meetings, is set out on page 38.
Reporting Council in July 2003, in a sensible and pragmatic fashion, having regard to the individual circumstances of the Groups business.
Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value.
professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary.
Compliance Statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company has Board Committees been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the There are several Committees with specified terms of reference Code.
How the Group has applied the principles, and complied to assist the Board in the exercise of its responsibilities.
The terms with those provisions is summarised in this statement.
of reference for each of these Committees are available from the Group website at www.
Directors Board Structure Nomination Committee The Board comprises the Chairman, seven independent nonThe Nomination Committee comprising non-executive directors executive directors and four executive directors, who have the has the task of: collective responsibility for ensuring that the affairs of the Company evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and its subsidiaries are managed competently and with integrity.
required on the Board and the structure, size and composition The Chairman is Mr J R Windeler.
The senior independent nonof the Board and its Committees: executive director is the Deputy Chairman, Mr M P S Barton, and recommending new appointments to the Board and reviewing Mr R A Pym is Group Chief Executive.
The names of the Directors re-appointments when they become due: in ofce at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23. annually reviewing the performance of and the time required from the non-executive directors and Board Committees: The composition of the Board is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and overseeing succession planning for the Board.
authority between executive and non-executive directors, and that There is a formal succession and contingency plan in place for all the directors collectively possess the necessary skills and experience Board and Committee appointments.
One additional independent for properly directing the Groups business activities.
non-executive director, Mrs M Salmon, has been appointed to the The non-executive directors constructively challenge the Board with the specic objective of increasing the breadth management team, and play a full part as members of the Board.
of recent human resources and retail management experience.
They bring a diversity of business perspective and objectivity which A detailed candidate profile was prepared for this complements the management expertise of their executive director appointment and an external search consultancy retained colleagues.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet to identify prospective candidates from which a short-list regularly without the executives present.
was presented to the Committee.
The Board has determined that all non-executive directors The Committee membership as at 24 February 2005 is: are independent and free from any material business or other relationship with the Group.
Mr J R Windeler Chairman Mr M J Allen Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by Mr M P S Barton shareholders at the first General Meeting after their appointment Mrs M Salmon from 1 December 2004 and at least every three years thereafter.
An induction programme Mr E J Watts provides an understanding of the Group and its strategy, products, markets and financial position, as well as the legal responsibilities Miss F A Cairncross and Mr R M McTighe resigned from the of a director.
All directors make regular visits to the Companys Committee on 1 December 2004. operational locations.
The appointment of non-executive directors Mrs D Henderson, Head of Board Ofce, is the secretary of the is documented in a letter, the standard terms of which are available Nomination Committee.
from the Group website at www.
Remuneration Committee Operation of the Board The Board determines the Groups strategic direction and The Remuneration Committee comprising only non-executive directors is responsible, pursuant to a policy framework on objectives.
There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to the Board, including the setting of corporate executive remuneration agreed by the Board, for determining the pay and benets and contractual arrangements for the objectives, major capital expenditure, annual budgets and significant changes to the Groups structure and product range.
Chairman, Executive Directors and the Group Secretary, and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
The Committee also The Group Chief Executive is empowered to approve any matter monitors and makes recommendations for the structure and not reserved to the Group Board within agreed financial limits, levels of remuneration for Senior Managers throughout the Group.
and in turn delegates the operational and financial management of the business to the executive directors to achieve agreed The Committee oversees the preparation of the Directors budgets and objectives.
Remuneration report which appears on pages 28 to 34.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Committee membership as at 24 February 2005 is: ensuring that it has been updated to reect changes in circumstances arising since the previous year, any questions Mr M P S Barton Chairman of resignation or dismissal of external auditors and reviewing Mr M J Allen the effectiveness of the audit process.
In compliance with the The Hon.
D Brougham rotation requirements relating to audit engagement partners, Mr R M McTighe there will be a change to the lead audit partner of our external Mrs M Salmon from 1 December 2004 auditors for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Miss F A Cairncross and Mr E J Watts resigned from the Committee The Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external on 1 December 2004. auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to Mr T S Lloyd, Group Secretary, is the Secretary of the ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor Remuneration Committee.
the level of reliance placed on the service could impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups Group Audit & Risk Committee financial statements.
The policy incorporates a comprehensive The Group Audit & Risk Committee supports the Boards Corporate system for reporting to the Group Audit & Risk Committee and Governance responsibilities, including risk management and the fees payable to the external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy is available from the Group website at The duties of the Committee fall into these areas: www.
Risk Management and Internal Control: the Committee reviews The Committee also reviews arrangements by which staff may, the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties risk management and monitors compliance with regulatory in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
To do this, the Committee reviews the annual The Committee recognises the importance of maintaining a sound Group Risk Plan and approves the annual Internal Audit and system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments Compliance plans, which are based on thorough risk assessments and the Groups assets.
Further information on the systems of the full scope of the Groups business activities, and monitors of business control appears later in this Statement.
Each meeting of the Committee receives reports from the Director of Group Risk, Head of Group Other Committees Internal Audit, the Head of Group Compliance and the Money The Group Credit Policy Committee reviews all aspects of credit, Laundering Reporting officer MLRO regarding the state of liquidity and market risk, and the Group Assets and Liabilities risk management, internal control and compliance within the Committee establishes strategies for, and monitors and controls, Group.
The Committee also receives, on behalf of the Board, the levels of balance sheet risk including liquidity, funding and the annual report from the MLRO.
currency exposures across the Group, and the monitoring of interest rate rexing proles.
The Chairmans Committee Financial Reporting: the Committees role is to review on behalf is empowered to take urgent decisions between Board meetings of the Board the Annual Report & Accounts and the Interim and comprises the Chairman or a non-executive director, the Results, the Management Representations and Summary Annual Deputy Chairman or another non-executive director, and the Report.
The Committee focuses on reviewing any changes Group Chief Executive or one other executive director.
in accounting policy, major areas of judgement and estimates, and compliance with accounting principles Evaluation of Board Performance and regulatory requirements.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
All Board directors are required to The Committee membership as at 24 February 2005 is: complete a detailed questionnaire which seeks to identify any Mrs J V Barker Chairman from 1 January 2005 areas in which improvements might be made to the information Mr M P S Barton Chairman until 31 December 2004 provided to the Board or to the conduct of its proceedings.
D Brougham evaluation takes the form of a series of specic questions within Mr R M McTighe general subject headings, using the guidance provided in the Mr E J Watts Code.
The directors are required to score performance according to a scale, and give qualitative comments where appropriate.
Mr P J Stone resigned from the Committee on 30 September 2004.
The Board subsequently discusses the results of the evaluation and The Board considers that these non-executive members of the uses the process to constructively improve the effectiveness of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Board by maximising the strengths and tackling any weaknesses.
Ms A Ward, Head of Group Internal Audit, is the Secretary of the Board Committees undertake an annual evaluation of their Group Audit & Risk Committee.
performance in the same way as the Board, and report their findings and any resulting recommendations to the Board.
The Group Chief Executive, and other Executive Directors, Director of Group Risk, Director of Accounting & Taxation, Group Secretary, Individual performance evaluations of the Chairman and of the Head of Group Internal Audit, Head of Group Compliance and non-executive directors takes place annually.
All directors are a Partner from the external auditors normally attend meetings.
required to score performance according to a scale, and give Other Group Board members are also invited to all meetings.
The evaluation results The Chairman of the Committee has independent access to enable the Chairman to discuss with individual directors their both internal and external auditors, and to the Groups statutory particular contributions and commitment to the Group, and any regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
development action that may be required.
The Nomination Committee then receives the results of the individual The Committee is also responsible for recommending the appointment and reappointment of the external auditors, the evaluations to assist in its annual review of the performance and re-appointment of non-executive directors.
The evaluation appropriateness of the audit fee and the engagement letter, 36 Alliance & Leicester Corporate Governance of the Chairman is reviewed by the senior independent The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal Control non-executive director and the Board.
In addition, the Policy to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Each regular meeting non-executive directors meet at least once a year under the of this Committee receives a report identifying the effectiveness guidance of the senior independent non-executive director of internal control together with specic reports on major issues.
to review the performance of the Chairman.
An annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control within the Group is submitted by the Head of Group Internal Audit to this The Chairman is responsible for appraising the performance Committee.
The Board retains control over this area through the of the Group Chief Executive against objective criteria agreed presentation of a regular Group Audit & Risk Committee activities by the Remuneration Committee prior to the commencement report together with the minutes of the Committee meetings.
The Chairman presents the results of his appraisal to the Remuneration Committee for consideration The key features of the system of business control established and determination of remuneration.
by the Board are: The Group Chief Executive is responsible for appraising the A Group Internal Control Policy requiring senior management performance of the other executive directors individually, against to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal objective criteria agreed by the Remuneration Committee prior controls through key performance indicators and certify to to the commencement of any appraisal period.
The Group the Board on a twice yearly basis that they are effective.
Chief Executive presents the results of these appraisals to the The operation of internal controls are subject to internal audit Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination scrutiny and are reported via the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
A well dened management structure with clear accountabilities Remuneration and delegations.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be found on pages 28 to A system of executive management committees, including the 34 and sets out the Groups remuneration policy, procedures and Executive Directors Meeting, Group Executive Meeting, and the the remuneration of individual directors and related information.
These committees enhance and Accountability and Audit support the oversight role of the Board.
Internal Control A planning and budget process that delivers detailed annual The Group Audit & Risk Committee has regularly reviewed the financial forecasts and targets for Board approval.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year to 31 December 2004 on behalf of the Board, and has Management information systems enabling the Board to taken account of any material developments that may have receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and taken place since the year end.
business performance including variance against budget.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls A Group Risk Management function with overarching responsibility and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Groups business involves for the monitoring and reporting of all major risks to which the the identication, acceptance and mitigation of risk, and appropriate Group is exposed, supported by specialist risk functions.
internal control systems have been implemented and embedded.
An Internal Audit function to report to the Board on the These systems of internal control are designed to manage rather effectiveness of key internal controls in relation to these than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, major risks.
and provide reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material A Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups error, loss or fraud, but it must be recognised that they cannot key regulators and to identify and control major compliance risks.
The appointment of a Money Laundering Reporting officer and The directors are required by law to establish systems for the the establishment and maintenance of anti-money laundering control of the conduct of the business in accordance with the procedures and controls including training programmes for staff.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and to conduct the Documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that risks business with prudence and integrity, ensuring that there are involved in major projects are properly assessed and controlled.
adequate reserves and other capital resources and assets in liquid form for the protection of depositors.
The activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, are subject to supervision by the Financial Services There has been in place for the year under review and up to Authority.
The Group is required on a regular basis to submit the date of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and detailed prudential and statistical returns covering all areas managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process of its business and meets regularly with its supervisors, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull conducting the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in Going Concern September 1999.
The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable The Board receives monthly reports from key executives identifying future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern performance against budget, major business issues and the impact basis in preparing the accounts.
of the external business and economic environment on their areas of responsibility.
The Board also receives minutes and reports from Relations with Shareholders the Chairmen of the Group Audit & Risk Committee and the The Company values dialogue with its institutional shareholders Group Credit Policy Committee.
These Committees identify any through meetings, presentations and results briengs.
significant issues relating to the adequacy of the Groups risk The Board receives monthly updates on changes in the Companys management policies and procedures across the full range of risk to which the Group is exposed.
institutional share register, together with details and feedback from Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37
