28 In this section we report to you on our structure and corporate governance principles and processes.
The statement regarding compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority, is on page 34.
Corporate Structure The Board Corporate Structure Accountability and Audit Investment Trust Status Compliance with the The Alliance Trust PLC is an investment company.
After each accounting period it seeks approval as an investment trust Code of Best Practice under the Taxes Acts from the Inland Revenue.
Since receiving the last approval, which was for the year ended 31 January Directors Biographical 2003, the Company has conducted its affairs to enable it to Details continue to seek approval.
Structure The Company has subsidiary companies, principally Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS and Alliance Trust Finance Limited ATF.
ATS, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provides savings plans in the form of PEPs, ISAs, SIPPs and Investment Plans.
ATF carries out the administration, as agent, of lease finance portfolios for third parties and acts as agent for the acquisition of supplies required by the Group and The Second Alliance Trust PLC the Second Alliance Trust.
The Company operates in parallel with the Second Alliance Trust.
This arrangement goes back to just after the end of the First World War when another, smaller, Dundee company, then called the Western & Hawaiian Investment Company, came to a mutually beneficial arrangement with the Company to share office, administration and staff costs.
In 1923 this, smaller, company changed its name to the Second Alliance Trust.
Since then, and in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the investment objectives and portfolios of both companies have been substantially aligned and the directors of both companies are the same individuals.
Should any potential conflict of interest arise, each company takes independent advice.
Together, the Alliance Trust and the Second Alliance Trust own ATS and ATF, with the Alliance Trust having a 75% shareholding in both companies.
Corporate Governance Report 29 Non-executive Directors The Board Bruce Johnston Chairman The Alliance Trust has a board of executive and non-executive William Berry Senior Independent Director directors who are collectively responsible for the Group.
The William Jack Chairman of the Audit Committee boards main duties are: Lesley Knox Chairman of the Nomination Committee To set out the objectives of the Group.
These are found on from 1 February 2004 page 3.
Christopher Masters Chairman of the Remuneration Committee To provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be The non-executive directors, who form a majority on the board, assessed and managed.
How risk is managed is narrated on are not salaried employees.
They receive fees in consideration pages 33 to 34. for carrying out their duties.
To set the standards and values of the Group and ensure As well as those collective duties which they have as members that our obligations to our stockholders and others are of the board, the non-executive directors scrutinise the understood and met.
performance of the executive, monitor the integrity of the financial information, and satisfy themselves that financial Executive Directors controls and systems of risk management of the Group are Alan Harden Chief Executive robust and defensible.
The non-executive directors, through the Remuneration Committee, also fix the remuneration of the David Deards Finance Director executive directors and, through the Nomination Committee, are Sheila Ruckley Director of Risk Management primarily responsible for succession planning.
Alan Young Investment Director There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, Gavin Suggett served as a director and Chief Executive until whose duty is to run the board effectively, and that of the Chief 31 December 2003, when he retired from both offices.
Alan Executive, who is charged with running the business of the Harden became a director and Chief Executive on 1 January Group effectively.
This separation of roles is documented in 2004.
Gavin Suggett continues to be employed by the Company their respective job descriptions which are agreed by the board in a consultative capacity until his retirement from the as a whole.
The Senior Independent Director is the director to whom The executive directors are full time salaried employees.
The stockholders should turn if they have issues which they consider Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day running of the are not being dealt with by the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Group and in doing this he delegates responsibilities to the All the non-executives directors serve on committees of the other executive directors and other managers.
The main committees are the Nomination Committee page 30, the Remuneration Committee page 30 and pages 36-39 and the Audit Committee page 33.
At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2004, Bruce Johnston will retire as a director.
He will be succeeded in the Chairmanship of the Company by Lesley Knox.
In order to maintain the majority of non-executive directors on the board, the directors propose to make another appointment shortly.
30 Corporate Governance Report The board considers that all of the non-executive directors, Nomination Committee and Appointments including William Berry who has been a director for more than During the year under review, there was no standing Nomination nine years, are indeed independent of mind, character and Committee, but committees of the board were formed for the judgement and satisfy the independence test.
recruitment of a new Chief Executive and for the nomination of a successor to Bruce Johnston as Chairman.
It is the Companys Meetings policy that the Chairman of the Company does not serve on any The directors meet formally on a regular basis.
Ad hoc meetings Nomination Committee dealing with the nomination of his may also be convened, and the committees of the board meet successor, nor does any director proposed to succeed to as required to discharge their specific duties.
The committee which considered the choice of Chief Executive Decision Making comprised Lesley Knox Chairman, Bruce Johnston, Christopher Delegation to the executive is necessary for the efficient Masters and Gavin Suggett.
That considering the appointment of a new chairman comprised William Berry Chairman, William running of the Group.
While the Chief Executive and his team are responsible for operational matters generally, there are some Jack, Christopher Masters and Gavin Suggett.
issues which are specifically reserved for decision of the board Both these committees determined the process which was as a whole, whether or not they are operational.
This may be followed for each nomination and each process was tailored because of their strategic importance such as borrowings or according to the appointment under consideration.
The executive commencing a new business, their significance such as directors were invited to give their views to the Nomination changes in the Groups management structure, or their Committee and the decision on the appointment of any proposed reputational sensitivity such as litigation.
director or of a chairman of the board was made by the board as a whole, taking into account the reports and recommendations Audit Committee made to it by the relevant Nomination Committee.
A standing Nomination Committee has subsequently been constituted and this will deal with all future appointments.
As Remuneration Committee at the date of reporting, the membership of this committee is as noted on page 35.
The Remuneration Committee fixes, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of the executive directors and makes Information and Professional Development recommendations to the board on the framework of executive remuneration in the Group.
The Committee members are All directors receive a formal induction to the affairs and Christopher Masters Chairman since October 2003, William Berry business of the Group, which may include, where appropriate, Chairman until October 2003, William Jack and Lesley Knox.
meeting both with major institutional stockholders and private stockholders.
Training and professional development courses are For more detail on the remuneration of directors and the role of also made available as required.
the Remuneration Committee, please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39.
The Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, timely and clear information for board meetings and, with the Executive Committee company secretary, that good information inflows are maintained between the management and the board.
An executive committee, appointed by the Chief Executive, considers and assists in day-to-day matters concerning the Independence of Directors running of the Group.
The committee comprises all the executive directors and The board has carefully considered the guidance on Neil Anderson ATS Head of Operations independence of non-executive directors including the principle that independence is evidenced by an individual being Colin Beveridge Chief Investment Manager independent of mind, character and judgement.
Independence Kevin Dann ATS Managing Director can be present regardless of any relationship or circumstance Ian Goddard Company Secretary which may give rise to a presumption that it is absent, such as length of service on the board for a longer period than is currently recommended.
31 Alan Harden and Sheila Ruckley have contracts of service with Material Interests the Company which are terminable by the Company on one During the year, no director had any material interest in any years notice.
William Berry and William Jack do not have contract, being a contract of significance, with the Company or service contracts.
any subsidiary company or was connected to any adviser or Biographical details of the directors are on page 35. supplier who had such an interest.
Stockholders are referred to the Notice of the AGM, which is a Re-election of Directors separate document from this report and which gives more information about the directors to be re-elected.
The notice All appointments to the board are subject to approval by the also includes a proposal for the Company to be given power to stockholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM next take out liability insurance for directors and officers, which is following the appointment.
Additional to the requirements of not presently held.
the Articles of Association, the board has resolved that all directors subject themselves to re-election by the stockholders Directors Stockholdings at least every three years.
All directors must hold at least 200 ordinary stock units.
Details At the AGM on 30 April 2004, a resolution incorporating this of their holdings are shown in the table below.
principle into the Articles of Association will be put to the stockholders for approval.
At the meeting, Alan Harden will No director has any interest in the Companys preference stocks stand for election, this being the first Annual General Meeting or debenture stock.
No director, nor any member of any directors since his appointment.
Sheila Ruckley, William Berry and immediate family, has been granted options to subscribe for William Jack will retire by rotation and stand for re-election.
stock or debentures in the Company, or in any Group company.
Acquired between As at 1 February 2003 31 January 2004 and or date of appointment As at 31 January 2004 11 March 2004 Directors interests NonNonNonordinary stock units of 25p Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Bruce Johnston 2,134 15,186 2,192 15,186 -- Alan Harden 76 - 372 - 153 - William Berry 2,212 500 2,913 500 -- David Deards 1,039 - 1,200 - 10 - William Jack 1,000 - 1,000 - -- Lesley Knox 511 - 770 - 32 - Christopher Masters 494 - 503 - -- Sheila Ruckley 1,587 - 1,840 - 10 - Alan Young 2,630 - 2,817 - 10 - Acquisition of stock between 31 January 2004 and 11 March 2004 has been pursuant to standing instructions through plans provided by ATS, and the All-Employee Share Incentive Plan.
32 Corporate Governance Report Relationships with Stockholders Corporate Social Responsibility It is the boards collective responsibility to ensure that a In carrying out our activities and in our relationships with our meaningful dialogue is maintained with stockholders.
employees, suppliers and community, we aim to conduct ourselves responsibly, ethically and fairly and in a manner As well as meetings with institutional stockholders, which are which we ourselves would like to be treated.
largely conducted by the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director, the executive directors meet with private Payment of Creditors stockholders at investor seminars which are held throughout the UK.
It is customary for the Chairman, or one or more of the We always try to achieve favourable terms when buying other non-executive directors, also to attend these seminars.
Contracts and payment terms are carefully scrutinised and we pay in accordance with the contract which is agreed, The Investor Relations programme also includes meetings with which may be the suppliers own terms.
Investment purchases stockbrokers and investment analysts.
are settled in accordance with the terms of the exchanges on The AGM is a forum for all those who hold stock in the Company which the investments are listed.
The Group has not adopted and we encourage attendance and participation by all stockholders, any code or standard on payment practice.
including those who hold their stock through nominees.
The Group anticipates no change in its purchasing practices in All beneficial owners of stock through ATS are given the the current financial year.
opportunity, using a letter of direction, and at no charge, to At 31 January 2004 the Company had no trade creditors.
ATS, instruct a proxy vote to be cast for them.
Whilst company law its principal operating subsidiary, had trade creditors equivalent does not provide for such beneficial owners to vote on a show to 20 13 days of average purchases.
of hands, those attending the AGM are given a courtesy show of hands vote at the meeting, in order that the directors can Green Disclosures be made aware of how they would vote on a show of hands, if so allowed by company law.
In carrying out our activities over the last year, our UK greenhouse gas emissions by reason of the Groups activities We are required to report to you which stockholders have told office heat and power requirements and employee travel, us that they own more than 3% of our ordinary stock.
Where calculated in accordance with reporting guidelines issued by the the stock is in a nominee for beneficial owners who retain Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions, amounted voting rights, the holding must be notified to the Company to 123 120 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of when it reaches 10% of the ordinary stock.
operating 10.9 10.7 three bar electric fires for a year.
Below we give a table which shows who has notified us of a 3% We are often asked whether the investment managers take or more holding.
It also states the percentage of stock held by environmental factors into consideration when making the nominee for the ATS customers who retain voting rights.
Information is given on page 9.
Ordinary stock units notified as at 11 March 2004 Voting Alliance Trust Savings Limited 8,514,626 16.89% It is the Company's policy to exercise, wherever practical, its DC Thomson & Co Ltd 3,241,503 6.43% vote at meetings of companies in which it owns shares.
Any The Standard Life proposal to vote against the recommendations of the board of Assurance Company 1,739,553 3.45% the company in which the shares are held requires the approval Legal & General Investment of an executive director.
Decisions to vote against such Management Company 1,518,366 3.01% recommendations are reported to the board.
More information is given on page 9, together with information on social Political and Charitable Donations responsibility in the context of investment decisions.
We do not make political or charitable donations.
We are members of ProShare, which has charitable status, because it promotes the rights of private stockholders and we use its connections and expertise.
We paid 6,494 to ProShare this year, and the same last year.
33 The Audit Committee is also the forum where any member of Accountability and Audit staff may, in confidence, raise matters of concern about possible improprieties in matters such as financial reporting, Directors Responsibility for the Accounts and it has the power to investigate any matters raised.
The directors are required by law to prepare financial The committee members are William Jack Chairman, William statements which give a true and fair view of the state of Berry, Lesley Knox and Christopher Masters.
affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the revenue and cash flows for the year.
Risk Management and Internal Control In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring that It is the responsibility of the board to understand the nature adequate accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding and extent of the risks facing the Group.
In so doing, the board the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the is mindful that risk must be considered in the context of the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
objective and activities of the Group.
Risk is inherent in the opportunities which present themselves, and are sought out, in The Company and the Group have, in the opinion of the the attainment of what we seek to provide for stockholders.
directors, adequate resources to continue operation as a going concern for the foreseeable future, and the financial statements In considering risk and in the formulation of its risk policies, of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 January the board looks at the level of risk which it considers 2004 have been prepared on that basis.
acceptable to bear in each risk category it identifies as being relevant to the activities of the Group.
In assessing the level of The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, risk, the board looks at the probability of the risks concerned consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent materialising and their potential impact.
A process is put in judgements and estimates, have been used in their preparation place to evaluate and manage risks within a framework which and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
takes into account the costs of operating particular controls relative to the benefit obtained.
Audit Committee Thus the balance between risk and return is managed in a The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing and reporting to prudent manner, which does not conflict with the objectives of the board on: the Group or compromise compliance with statute and regulatory The annual and interim financial statements and the provision or adherence to good business management.
accounts, together with the form of proposed In January 2004, the board charged one of the executive announcements and reports relating to the Company's directors, Sheila Ruckley, with responsibility for risk financial performance.
Compliance with banking and financial services legislation.
Central to the risk management framework is nurturing a culture The integrity and effectiveness of accounting and financial which promotes honesty and integrity and favours compliance controls and the system of internal control, including the as a positive aid to business.
Embedding an understanding of process for assessing and managing risk.
risk means that staff take responsibility for the management of risk in the areas for which they are responsible.
This is done in The Committee has a specific function to review the scope and the context of the boards risk policies and an agreed policy for effectiveness of the audits which are carried out by the external the risk management processes in each area.
It reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, supervises the function of A sound system of internal control fits into the framework of the internal audit and facilitates the work of both the external risk management.
The board confirms that procedures which and internal auditors.
During the year, the Committee put the accord with the guidance published in 1999 the Turnbull external audit out to tender.
The result of the tender process guidance for compliance with principle D of the Combined Code was that the stockholders should be asked to reappoint KPMG internal control have been in place for the year under review Audit Plc as auditor.
and continue to be in place.
34 Corporate Governance Report These procedures include a review by the board, on at least an Compliance with the Code annual basis, of the scope and effectiveness of the system for internal control.
This includes a review of financial, operational of Best Practice and compliance controls as well as of significant business risks and any changes in the nature and extent of those risks since Pages 28-35 of this report, together with the directors the last review.
remuneration report on pages 36-39, disclose the application by No system of internal control can give an absolute assurance the Company of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, misstatement or loss.
It should prevent or detect areas of as required by the UK Listing Authority.
shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through The Combined Code which applies to the Company for the incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
reporting year to 31 January 2004 is now defined by the UK The main control mechanisms in place include:- Listing Authority as the Hampel Code.
Separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on The board reports that it has complied with the Hampel Code the board.
except in two matters: Strong non-executive directors and a robust Audit Committee.
In the year to 31 January 2004, performance related pay did not form a substantial part of the executive directors Clear departmental structures, backed up by interremuneration.
This is explained in the Directors Remuneration departmental support functions.
During the year there was no standing Nomination Committee.
Segregation of duties such that no one person can control As explained on page 30, two appointments were considered for or influence all aspects of one function, or carry out and which separate Nomination Committees were appointed.
membership of each committee was tailored to the post in question so that the most relevant board experience was A rolling internal audit and compliance monitoring programme brought to bear.
with reports on matters reviewed given directly to the Chief Executive, Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In July 2003, revisions to the Hampel Code were announced by the UK Listing Authority.
The revised Code, defined as the Investment Risk and Financial Instruments 2003 FRC Code applies for reporting periods which commence on or after 1 November 2003.
Accordingly the board will report Risk is inherent in all forms of investment which aim to give a on its compliance with the 2003 FRC Code in its report for the financial return.
We seek to manage this risk primarily through year ended 31 January 2005. a judicious choice of investments diversified across different business sectors and economies.
Notwithstanding diversification, in the short-term the aggregate valuation of By order of the Board these investments is subject to considerable fluctuation in Ian Goddard, Secretary response to changes in, for example, inflation, interest rates, currencies and market sentiment.
Cumulative effects of dividend Dundee, 22 March 2004 income and its reinvestment, along with long term growth can compensate for short term fluctuations in capital value.
The Company does not seek to enhance returns by engaging in trading activity itself, although it invests in companies that trade.
The Company may borrow and may make use of financial instruments and derivatives in order to enhance returns or to mitigate risks.
Borrowing, financial instruments and derivatives carry their own risks, which must be managed effectively.
During the last financial year, we did not borrow or use any financial instruments or derivatives.
35 Directors Bruce W M Johnston Chairman CA 65 Joined the board 1991: appointed Chairman 1996 Pictured centre Bruce Johnston was a partner in the chartered accountancy firm, Arthur Young now Ernst & Young, between 1970 and 1986, where he concentrated on audit and advisory work for companies and private clients.
He then moved to the commercial sector and was, until 1996, Executive Chairman of City Centre Restaurants plc, where he combined general management with responsibility for finance and investor relations.
Other directorships include Mid Wynd International Investment Trust PLC.
Non-Executive Directors From left to right Executive Directors From left to right William Berry MA LLB WS 64 Alan J Harden 46 Joined the board 1994: Senior Independent Director Joined the Company 2003: Chief Executive 2004 William Berry is a solicitor and the former chairman of Murray Beith Alan Harden started his career in the investment industry in 1978 with Abbey Murray, an Edinburgh Law firm which has an important investment Life and JBI in the UK, Europe and Cyprus: before joining Wardley part of presence, managing and administering funds for many private clients.
He HSBC in 1984, running the asset management department in Cyprus, before is Senior Governor of St Andrews University and was formerly chairman of moving to Dubai UAE, and then to Hong Kong as senior investment manager.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore, responsible for activities and assets in Other directorships include Fleming Continental European Investment Trust South East Asia.
In 1994 he became Global Head of Investment Services, PLC and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
leading Standard Chartered to become the largest fund distributor in Asia.
In 2000 he moved to Citigroup, and from his base in Japan, was head of the William H Jack 59 asset management business in the Asia Pacific region and a member of the Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the Audit Committee Global Executive Committee.
He joined the Alliance Trust in November 2003 William Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company in and was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2004, the date on which he 1973, and was the managing director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, took up the responsibilities of Chief Executive.
with the responsibility for the UK Life and unit trust business, from 1991 to 2000.
Alan M W Young MA LLB 57 Other directorships include Skipton Group Holdings.
Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & Lesley M S Knox 50 Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at Gartmore Joined the board 2001: Chairman of the Nomination Committee as an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of Gartmores pension Lesley Knox qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and USA advising and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On joining the Alliance companies on a range of commercial matters.
Subsequently she worked as Trust he managed the UK and European portfolios before becoming the a corporate finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where in 1996 she director responsible for investment policy.
became a group director and then as a founder director of British Linen Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 54 Advisers.
She was also Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 services to clients world wide.
Sheila Ruckley studied history and philosophy in the UK and USA before Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC and MFI Furniture qualifying as a solicitor.
After joining the Alliance Trusts she became Group PLC.
secretary of the Company and compliance officer of the savings business, before becoming responsible for the introduction of the Select Pension.
Christopher Masters CBE FRSE 56 Initially appointed a director to develop the investor relations function Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee within the organisation, she was, in January 2004, appointed Director of Risk Management, retaining responsibility for investor relations.
Christopher Masters took his doctorate in Chemistry at Leeds University and worked for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then Shell Chemicals David A Deards BA ACA 44 in the UK.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development manager Joined the Company and the board 2003 before becoming director of planning for their US operation and then Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He was then appointed Executive Chairman David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He chairs the Scottish with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co where Higher Education Funding Council and the Festival City Theatres Trust.
he gained considerable experience in corporate finance and banking and investment product development, and became a director of Ansbacher & Co Other directorships include British Assets Trust PLC and John Wood in 1995.
He joined the Alliance Trust as Finance Director in 2003.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the standing Nomination Committee All are also Directors of Alliance Trust Savings Limited and The Second Alliance Trust PLC
