42 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate Board corporate governance statement information to enable it to discharge its duties, including providing constructive challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further Purpose information is obtained by the Board from the executive directors Corporate governance is the framework of business principles, and other relevant senior executives as the Board, particularly its nonstructures and controls within which the Group, its management, executive members, considers appropriate.
Procedures are in place for directors and shareholders operate.
Its aim is to ensure: directors to take independent professional advice, when necessary, at accountability: the Companys expense.
transparency of responsibility: the appropriate management of conflicts of interest: and There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the effective relationships between the Companys stakeholders, Chairman, who is responsible for leading and running the Board and especially its Board, other decision makers such as Committees related matters such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group and shareholders.
Chief Executive, who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing this division of responsibilities, which all of which support the Companys underlying purpose of creating includes provision for the Chairmans role in shareholder relations and shareholder value.
in ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors, was in place throughout the year.
The Deputy Chairman, Lord This report sets out the practical elements of the Companys corporate Stewartby, is the senior independent director and is designated as an governance policies and practices.
It is followed by separate reports appropriate director to whom shareholders concerns may be conveyed from the Nomination and Audit Committees and by the Directors if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or remuneration report.
Finance Director has failed to resolve them or is inappropriate.
Commitment and basis of reporting Key parts of the duties of the Board, notably with regard to Board The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, appointments, controls, risk management and remuneration-related including to the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on matters, are carried out through or on the recommendation of the Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Boards Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The majority Financial Services Authority the Combined Code or Code.
The Code, of the members of the Nomination Committee and all the members of which was published in July 2003, applied formally to the Company for the other two committees are independent non-executive directors.
The the first time from 1 January 2004. terms of reference of each of these committees, as well as a statement of the relationship between the Company and its remuneration advisers, This report, together with the Directors remuneration report, describes are also available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor how the Company applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on Combined Code during the year and, in the section entitled Summary request.
Further details of the membership and activities of each of the of Combined Code compliance on page 45, highlights the one Boards Nomination and Audit Committees are contained in their separate provision with which the Company is not yet fully compliant.
Similar details of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
Role and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and the Company Secretary The Board is supported by the Company Secretary who, under the The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its direction of the Chairman, helps to ensure good communication and committees decisions provides that the Boards primary obligation is to information flows within the Board, including between executive and lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive decision non-executive directors and between the Board and its committees to making powers over such matters as: overall strategy and resources: all of which either he or his deputy acts as Secretary.
He is also, with investment strategy: remuneration policies: accounting policies: and the Chairman, a guardian of all Board procedural matters, regularly capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds.
advises the Board on governance matters and facilitates the Board Matters reserved to the Board also include certain key Group policies, updating and induction work outlined below.
appointments and categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to The non-executive directors also met on a number of occasions during management, which reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on the year without executive directors or other executive management underwriting, financial and other operational matters and objectives.
present, including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the chairs full non-executive meetings and the senior independent director Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys chairs meetings when the Chairman is not present.
website or from the Company Secretary on request.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 43 Board meetings The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman The Board meets on a regular basis, holding six main pre-scheduled Board meetings in 2004 2003: seven plus a planning and strategy of Amlin.
He entered into a minimum time commitment to Amlin from 2004 onwards of 75 days per annum.
Each of the other nonday 2003: one.
In addition three single item Board meetings were held at shorter than usual notice 2003: one.
The attendance record executive directors has also made the following minimum annual time commitments in respect of their periods of service from during the year of each director at the six main Board meetings was as follows: 1 January 2004 onwards: Board meeting attendance 2004 Deputy Chairman, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Number of meetings Number of meetings and Nomination Committees Lord Stewartby : 35 days Committee member whilst a director attended N J C Buchanan 4 4 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and B D Carpenter 6 6 a member of the Audit Committee until May 2004, R A Hextall 6 6 Mr Kennedy: thereafter, Mr Mylvaganam, who is A W Holt 6 6 also a member of the Nomination Committee : 30 days R S Joslin 6 6 K T Kemp 6 5 Other non-executive directors plus an extra J M Kennedy 3 2 five days if a member of both the Audit and R W Mylvaganam 6 5 Remuneration Committees : 20 days C E L Philipps 6 6 J R Sanders 3 2 Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive J L Stace 3 2 and executive directors are set out in the Directors remuneration Lord Stewartby 6 6 report, which refers to executive service contracts and non-executive R J Taylor 6 6 letters of appointment, copies of both of which are available for Average % attendance 93% inspection at the Companys registered office.
Board independence In addition, all ten directors serving in November 2004 attended the The non-executive Chairman was independent, in terms of the new planning and strategy day referred to above.
The three formal one-item Combined Code, on his appointment in 1998. meetings, of which all directors received notice and the opportunity to comment on the proposed business, were attended by six, two and two Apart from Mr Kemp, from late January 2004 onwards, and Mr Stace, directors respectively.
who served as a non-executive for five months from his retirement from executive office until leaving the Board in May 2004, all the nonBoard terms of appointment, membership and time commitments executive directors serving during or since the year were determined The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a by the Board as being independent in character and judgement directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting with in the words of the Combined Code no relationships or immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, no director may serve in office in excess of three years before being the directors judgement.
required to submit himself or herself to shareholders for re-election.
Details of the procedures whereby appointments and re-appointments Until 31 December 2002 Mr Joslin was Vice Chairman of State Farm to the Board are considered on a formal, rigorous and transparent Mutual Automobile Insurance Company State Farm, which is a 9.8% manner, on merit and against objective criteria, are set out in the shareholder in the Company and until November 2004 provided material Report from the Nomination Committee.
Letter of Credit facilities to the Group on commercial terms.
As stated in last years Annual Report, with effect from 1 January 2004, Mr Joslin At the start of the year the Board comprised: the Chairman, seven has been classified as independent, notwithstanding provision A.
3.1 of other non-executive directors of whom, from January 2004, five were the Code which suggests that a three year period should elapse following classified as independent and two not and four executive directors.
The Board continues to consider that an exception to On 22 March 2004 a new independent non-executive director, Mr Nigel this provision is justified as neither State Farm nor the Board consider Buchanan, was appointed to the Board and at the Annual General him as any form of conduit of information between them, he has no Meeting AGM on 19 May 2004 three non-executives, Messrs Kennedy continuing personal interests in State Farm and, most importantly, his independent, Sanders independent and Stace non-independent, previous directorship of State Farm does not, in practice, affect his retired.
There were no other changes in the Board during or since the independent judgement as an Amlin director.
year and thus from 19 May 2004 to date the Board has comprised: the Chairman, five other non-executive directors of whom four are Lord Stewartby reached his ninth anniversary as a director of the Company independent and four executive directors.
Biographical details of all in October 2004.
3.1 of the Code regarding the current directors are included on pages 36 and 37. length of service, the Board continues to classify him as independent, bearing in mind that the merger of the Company with Murray Lawrence in 1998 so transformed the size and scope of the Companys business as to 44 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS render the earlier service of questionable relevance.
The Board is also director joining the Board.
The director who joined the Board during the mindful of the need to maintain sufficient continuity on its Board and on year, Mr Buchanan, undertook the programme.
important Board committees, such as the Audit Committee, where specific longer term experience of a Lloyds underwriting group are particularly Board evaluation valuable.
The Board has resolved that Lord Stewartby remains robustly During the year the Board formally evaluated the performance of the independent in character and judgement, has no relationships that are Board as a whole, its Committees and each director.
The evaluations were relevant to such independence and that his circumstances are not such initiated by comprehensive questionnaires completed by each director as to require that his independent status should be altered.
giving his assessment of both collective and individual performances, including self-evaluation.
The results of the evaluation of the Board as a Messrs Kennedy and Sanders, who both left the Board in May 2004, whole were summarised by the Chairman and, at its meeting in January had also by that time both served on the Board for more than nine 2005, the Board agreed its conclusions.
A similar procedure was adopted years.
As outlined in last years corporate governance statement, for by each Board Committee, with the results being reported by each similar reasons to those now applying to Lord Stewartby the Board Committee chairman to the Board.
continued to classify each of them as independent throughout their periods of service.
The Chairman also discussed the conclusions on each individual director, including the performances of executive directors in respect of From June 2002 to September 2004 Mr Kemp was temporarily Chief their boardroom as opposed to executive roles, at private meetings with Financial Officer of Montpelier Re Holdings Limited Montpelier, with the director concerned.
Executive directors managerial roles continue which the Groups managed syndicate already had a qualifying quota to be assessed as part of the Groups well-established executive share arrangement on commercial terms prior to his appointment Performance Development Review process, in respect of which the to that position.
The Board considered that this should not alter his Chief Executives performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
However, for commercial reasons the syndicate entered into more substantive reinsurance arrangements with The Chairmans own evaluation, which was also initiated with a Montpelier from January 2004 again on commercial terms.
Although questionnaire completed by all directors, was conducted by the Mr Kemp was not involved in the negotiation of these arrangements, non-executive directors led by the senior independent non-executive the Board considered that the business relationship between Amlin Director.
Conclusions were discussed and agreed with the Chairman by and Montpelier, of which Mr Kemp presently remains a non-executive the senior non-executive director.
director, had become sufficiently material that it was no longer appropriate for Mr Kemp to be classified as independent.
As well as providing useful feedback for all concerned, the results of the evaluations were used when considering nominations for re-election Mr Kemps re-classification meant that, instead of at least half the and in non-executive succession planning.
Board being independent non-executive directors throughout the year as had been envisaged, for most of the year such independents excluding Relations with shareholders the Chairman comprised less than half the Board.
Nonetheless the The Company has been committed for many years to a process of Board believes that the continuing value of Mr Kemp to the Board continuing dialogue with its shareholders.
In addition to usual briefings outweighs this consideration and thus, although he left the on financial results, the Company made appropriate contact during the Remuneration Committee in January 2004, he has remained year with institutional investors and their representative bodies, both as on the Board.
issues or developments arose and through a series of lunches between some of the larger shareholders and non-executive directors led by the Directors re-elections Chairman with the Chief Executive in attendance.
The present three year terms of office of Messrs Taylor, Joslin, Kemp and Mylvaganam, and Lord Stewartby, all expire at the forthcoming Shareholder views on the Company are the subject of specific reports AGM on 18 May 2005.
The Board has accepted the recommendations at Board meetings at least twice annually.
An independently conducted of the Nomination Committee that they each be nominated for resurvey of institutional shareholders investment criteria, and their election.
In view of his length of service, Lord Stewartby is to be perceptions of the Company, its management and its investor proposed for a term of office of one year only.
The other candidates communications, first conducted in 2003, was repeated in December are to be proposed for re-election for the usual three year terms.
2004 and its results were presented to the Board in January 2005.
Further details of investor relations activities are included in the Board information and professional development relevant section of the OFR.
In addition to information about the Company, all directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public Annual General Meeting participation and voting company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, insurance industry matters, including through web access to a directors when a presentation on the Groups progress is made each year.
The update service provided by the Companys lawyers, Linklaters.
Update Company also attaches importance to encouraging a high level of voting sessions on technical and or industry matters are included regularly as participation at its general meetings, receiving proxies representing 65%, part of Board meetings and, in addition, the Company encourages, 69% and 76% of its shares in issue at its 2002, 2003 and 2004 AGMs facilitates and monitors other professional development for both respectively.
Details of electronic proxy voting, which is being made executive and non-executive directors as is required for their particular available for the first time for the 2005 AGM, are included in the roles and responsibilities.
The Company maintains a model director AGM circular and Notice of Meeting.
For many years the totals of induction programme, which is tailored to suit the needs of any new proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes withheld AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 45 i. e. deliberately abstained, have been announced after each resolution Internal audit and compliance monitoring work carried out by the has been dealt with on a show of hands.
In 2004 such proxy voting Groups Audit & Compliance function, which also provides compliance results were also announced through a regulatory news service and on the advice.
The head of Audit & Compliance reports to the Group Chief Companys website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the Executive and to the Audit Committee.
The Group has established proxies held by the chairman of the meeting, it is the Companys policy a continuous audit and compliance programme for reviewing and that the chairman would call a poll, but this has not yet proved necessary.
evaluating the internal controls and compliance procedures used in the management of risk.
Accountability and internal control The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Going concern managing its significant risks.
This process has been in place The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The process and its findings are regularly reviewed by the statements therefore continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Audit Committee, which reports on the matter to the Board, and accords with the guidance in the document Internal Control: Guidance Summary of Combined Code compliance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the Institute of During the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company was in Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
As discussed in more compliance with all of the provisions of section 1 companies of the detail in the Corporate responsibility section of the Directors report, Combined Code with the exception of provision A.
For the reasons this process explicitly includes the risks, and opportunities to enhance set out above in Board independence, at least half the Board, excluding value, arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
The the Chairman, did not throughout the year comprise non-executive directors are responsible for the Companys systems of internal control directors determined by the Board to be independent.
From May 2004 and in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 the directors have onwards the relevant proportion was four out of nine and from January reviewed the effectiveness of these systems which are designed to to March, it was five out of 11.
For a short period from March to May, provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material before AGM retirements, the 50% level was attained with six out of avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
They are also 12 directors, excluding the Chairman, being independent.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Other procedures which may assist the Following Mr Kemps reclassification in January 2004 as noneffectiveness of internal controls, such as whistle blowing procedures independent, the Board considered it more important during the whereby any member of staff may take matters of concern direct to the year under review to achieve measured and phased change in its head of Audit & Compliance or, if appropriate, to the Chairman of the composition, balancing renewal with continuity, than to achieve strict Company or chairman of the Audit Committee, have been put in place short-term parity between its independent and non-independent and are regularly reviewed.
Nonetheless, the Board expects parity to be achieved through the recruitment of a further independent non-executive Where areas for internal control improvements are identified, action is director during 2005. taken.
The Board has put in place a management structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group also Other than set out in this Summary of Combined Code compliance operates a financial performance monitoring process involving detailed section, the Company has been in full compliance with the Code reporting against budgets and the preparation of longer term projections.
provisions set out in section 1 companies of the Code throughout, In addition there is reporting to the Board in the ordinary course of and since, the year ended 31 December 2004. business on key risk management processes, which are described in more detail in the Risk management section of the OFR.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee which reviews the By Order of the Board following main processes established by the Company to review the effectiveness of internal control: Regular reporting by each division and central function through an integrated risk management system on the main risks to the achievement of Group objectives and on the nature and effectiveness C C T Pender Secretary of the controls and other management processes to manage these 7 March 2005 risks.
Significant risks and the actions taken to manage those risks are regularly reviewed by the Groups Risk Committee which comprises senior executives and is chaired by the head of Audit & Compliance.
The Risk Committee reports to each meeting of the Audit Committee.
A self-certification process whereby senior managers report on those parts of the systems for which each of them is responsible.
46 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Activities Report from the Nomination Committee During the year the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of a new independent non-executive director.
The Purpose Committee had agreed a specification in late 2003, which included the The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending Board requirement for someone with relevant, recent financial experience to appointments to the Board, and considering succession planning join the Audit Committee, on the basis of which its appointed external issues, so that the Board and its Committees comprise directors, both search consultants presented a long list, and then a short list, from executive and non-executive, with the appropriate balance of experience which Mr Nigel Buchanan was chosen to be recommended to the and qualities to deliver the strategic direction, entrepreneurial Board.
The Committee also recommended his nomination to the AGM, leadership, values, standards and framework of controls that the which took place around two months later, for election by shareholders.
Company needs to deliver its vision.
On the Chief Executives retirement as a director by rotation, the Membership Committee also considered and recommended his re-nomination at the The Nomination Committee the Committee was chaired throughout 2004 AGM.
The Committee also recommended to the Board changes in the year by the Chairman of the Company, who is non-executive.
Its committee appointments including a new chairman of the Remuneration other four members throughout 2004 and in 2005 to date have been Committee.
Succession planning continued to be kept under review, three independent non-executive directors, Lord Stewartby, Mr Joslin including the potential recruitment in 2005 of a further independent and Mr Mylvaganam, and the Chief Executive.
non-executive director, the specification for whom was agreed and delivered to the search consultants in January 2005.
Terms of reference All proposals for appointment, election or re-election to the Board, As mentioned in the Board corporate governance statement, the whether in a non-executive or executive capacity, are considered Committee considered in early 2005 the renomination of existing by the Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board.
Redirectors at the 2005 AGM, taking account of related succession nomination of directors to the relevant Annual General Meeting is planning issues and of the Board and individual director evaluations considered on a case by case basis before recommendations are which took place late in late 2004. made.
The Committees terms of reference include responsibility for keeping under review and advising the Board on such areas as the In the latter part of the year a self-evaluation was conducted by Boards structure and composition, the leadership required to ensure the Committee of its own composition, procedures, contribution and the continued competitiveness of the Company, succession planning effectiveness, the conclusions of which were agreed at its meeting in and committee appointments.
No director may participate in any January 2005. decision regarding his or her own position.
The terms of reference are available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of its Nomination Committee Meetings The Committee meets as frequently as is required to fulfil its duties.
When there are not specific recommendations or decisions to be made, the Chairman consults members of the Committee between meetings.
The Committee met once during 2004.
C C T Pender Secretary Nomination Committee attendance 2004 7 March 2005 Number of meetings Number of meetings Committee member when a Committee member attended R S Joslin 1 1 R W Mylvaganam 1 1 C E L Philipps 1 1 Lord Stewartby 1 1 R J Taylor 1 1 Average % attendance 100% The Committee also met shortly after the year end in January 2005.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 47 Audit Committee attendance 2004 Report from the Audit Committee Number of meetings Number of meetings Purpose Committee member when a Committee member attended The Audit Committee concentrates on the reporting, control and N J C Buchanan 3 3 compliance aspects of the directors and the Groups responsibilities, R S Joslin 4 4 providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive R W Mylvaganam 4 3 management in these areas.
Its aim is to ensure that the highest J M Kennedy 1 0 possible standards of corporate reporting, controls and compliance are J R Sanders 1 1 achieved, in the belief that excellence in these areas enhances the Lord Stewartby 4 4 effectiveness, and reduces the risks, of the business.
Average % attendance 88% Membership The membership of the Audit Committee the Committee during the Activities year, and up to the date of this report, has been as follows: In addition to reviewing accounting policies, the Companys interim and preliminary results statements and its Annual Report, the Committee Audit Committee members 2004 Dates reviewed and reported to the Board on: the managed syndicates Annual Report: the external auditors engagement and service plan: N J C Buchanan 22 March 2004 to date the plans, and work undertaken during the year, of the Groups Audit & R S Joslin 1 January 2004 to date R W Mylvaganam Prior to 2004 to date Compliance Department: the external auditors independence and the J M Kennedy Until 19 May 2004 extent and reasons for them providing non-audit services a breakdown J R Sanders Until 19 May 2004 of the fees for which is set out in note 10 to the Accounts : Lord Stewartby Prior to 2004 to date the arrangements for, and potential effects of, the Groups change to International Financial Reporting Standards: the Groups whistle blowing procedures: and other related matters.
Reports were received Lord Stewartby served as chairman of the Committee throughout the from the external auditors in respect of each set of financial year.
All of the members of the Committee were at all times classified statements, highlighting the material judgemental areas, which were by the Board as independent.
Throughout the year there was at least then discussed by the Committee with executive management and the one member with recent and relevant financial experience, including auditors at the relevant Committee meeting.
Mr Joslin from 1 January and Mr Buchanan from 22 March.
Procedures were operated throughout the year for the approval of any The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive, the Finance appointments of the external auditors or its associated entities to Director and the head of Audit & Compliance usually attend the provide non-audit services.
At least once a year the Committee meets, both on its own and with the external auditors, without any executive Details of the Committees role regarding internal control issues are set management present.
out in the Accountability and internal control section of the Board corporate governance statement.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference enable it to take an independent The Committee also monitored the Groups compliance with Lloyds, view of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and Financial Services Authority and other regulatory requirements and practices.
It also considers the appointment and fees both audit and recommendations.
Reports to the Committee from the Groups Audit non-audit of the external auditors, who have unrestricted access to it, & Compliance department included summaries of the findings of internal and monitors the Groups compliance, internal control and risk audit reports, enabling members of the Committee to question the head management procedures.
The Committees terms of reference, which of Audit & Compliance on such reports and to monitor the measures take full account of the Smith Report on the role of audit committees, taken by management to respond to issues raised.
are available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary During the year the Committee was updated on technical accounting on request.
developments both by the external auditors and by the Group Finance Director, and a self-evaluation of its composition, procedures, Meetings contribution and effectiveness was conducted by the Committee and The Committee meets a minimum of four times a year.
It met four times reported to the Board.
during 2004, when attendance by committee members was as follows: By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of its Audit Committee C C T Pender Secretary 7 March 2005
