Aviva plc 2004 Corporate governance Application of the Combined Code if re-elected by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General The directors report on the Companys compliance with the applicable Meeting, will retire from the Board on or before 31 December 2006. provisions of the Combined Code during 2004 is set out below.
George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance who have both served as directors The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, for over nine years will also stand for re-election by shareholders at the in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code Combined Code, Annual General Meeting.
In line with the Boards succession plans, and how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied as previously disclosed, it is the intention that, if re-elected, they will with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
retire from the Board on or before 31 December 2005.
The Board of Directors All the directors being proposed for re-election have been subject to a The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 10 independent formal performance evaluation during 2004 including a peer review.
non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Each non-executive Full biographical details of all the directors, including those proposed director serves for a xed term not exceeding three years which may for election re-election, are set out on pages 42 and 43. be renewed by mutual agreement.
Subject to the Board being satisfied To satisfy the Board that the non-executive directors are able to exercise as to the directors performance, independence and commitment, an independence of judgement, the Nomination Committee undertakes there is no specified limit regarding the number of terms a director an annual review of directors interests in which all potential or may serve.
The Companys articles of association require that following perceived conicts, including time commitments, length of service and appointment by the Board, directors submit themselves for election other issues relevant to their independence, are considered.
Based on by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The articles also the outcome of the December 2004 review, the Board is of the opinion provide that one-third of directors shall retire by rotation each year that all of the current non-executive directors are independent of but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders, management and free from any relationship or circumstances that could and that directors shall not serve longer than the third Annual affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
General Meeting following their election without being re-elected Notwithstanding that George Paul, Derek Stevens and Elizabeth Vallance by shareholders.
Non-executive directors who serve on the Board have each served on the Board, or the board of a legacy company, for of the Company for nine years or more submit themselves for more than nine years the Board does not believe that this fact alone re-election annually.
It is the Boards policy to appoint and retain non-executive directors The principal commitments of all the directors are summarised in the who are able to apply their wider knowledge and experiences to their biographical details on pages 42 and 43.
Pehr Gyllenhammar was understanding of the Aviva Group and, through a programme of appointed chairman of AB Kinnevik in August 2004 and prior to his rotational retirement, to refresh regularly the skills and experiences appointment the Board was consulted and satisfied itself that the which it requires.
In addition to the strengths of experience, diversity appointment would have no material effect on the time which he and an international perspective, the Board also seeks to comply with would have available to commit to the Company.
the requirements of the Combined Code relating to the independence of directors.
The Board is also satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties to the Company.
The Board had eight Against the above background the Board has appointed three new scheduled meetings in 2004.
The attendance record of the directors at independent non-executive directors.
Richard Goeltz and Russell the Board and Board committee meetings which they were entitled to Walls in May 2004 and Lord Sharman of Redlynch in January 2005. attend during 2004 is set out below.
The biographical details of these directors are set out on pages 42 and 43.
All these directors have had distinguished careers in finance.
Board and Board committee attendance 2004 Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls are both former group finance directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee of major companies and Lord Sharman spent his career with KPMG becoming its international chairman.
At a time of major accounting Number of meetings 8565 changes these new directors with their strong financial skills and Percentage of international management experience make very strong additions to the meetings attended Board and Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls have been appointed to the Pehr Gyllenhammar 100 80 Boards Audit Committee.
Another new director is Andrew Moss who Anna Catalano 66 50 was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2004.
Andrew Moss Guillermo fide la Dehesa 88 66 100 joined the Company from Lloyds of London where he was Director of Wim Dik 75 66 100 Finance, Risk Management and Operations.
In accordance with the Richard Goeltz 100 100 100 Companys articles of association these new directors will stand for Richard Harvey 100 100 election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
George Paul 100 100 100 The directors retiring in accordance with the Companys articles of Carole Piwnica 88 100 association and proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Andrew Moss 100 General Meeting are Guillermo fide la Dehesa, Wim Dik, Derek Stevens Philip Scott 100 and Andr Villeneuve.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa, a Spanish national, and Derek Stevens 100 100 Wim Dik, a Dutch national, have both served as directors for five years.
Patrick Snowball 100 In addition to their considerable management experience they bring a Elizabeth Vallance 88 66 100 valuable European perspective to the Boards discussions.
Derek Stevens, Andr Villeneuve 88 66 80 who has now served as a director for nine years, is a member of the Russell Walls 100 100 financial sector committee of the Accounting Standards Board and is a The table shows the number of meetings attended by each director, expressed as a former Chief Financial officer of British Airways and of the TSB Group.
percentage of the number of meetings held during the year, or during the period since He therefore is able to contribute recent and relevant financial they joined or until they left the Board or Committee.
experience and chairs the Boards Audit Committee.
Andre Villeneuve has served as a director for just less than nine years.
He has knowledge The Board has appointed George Paul, the Deputy Chairman, to be the of the broking and financial markets and wide general management Companys senior independent non-executive director.
experience in the UK and the United States.
In line with its succession plans it is the Boards intention that Derek Stevens and Andre Villeneuve, 47 Corporate governance Aviva plc 2004 Corporate governance continued Board process The performance of the Chairman is also reviewed annually using a The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in similar peer review process.
Prior to the Board meeting at which the formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board.
review is to take place the directors are asked for their views about These terms of reference address a wide range of corporate governance the Chairmans performance against the key aspects of the role.
issues and set out those items which are specically reserved for decision At the meeting the Chairman leaves whilst a summary of the views by the Board.
These include the approval of the Groups strategy and expressed by the directors is used as an introduction for discussion.
business plans, acquisitions and disposals and other transactions This process is managed by the senior independent non-executive outside delegated limits, material changes to accounting policies or director who completes it by providing feedback to the Chairman.
practices, significant financial decisions, dividend policy, shareholder The Board believes strongly in the development of all its employees, documentation, the constitution of Board committees and the approval including its directors, and it is a requirement of directors appointments of key business policies including the remuneration policy.
Matters which that they commit to continue their development.
The form which this are not specically reserved to the Board and its committees under the development takes varies depending upon each directors requirements terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated and the quality relevance of the training available.
During the year to the Group Chief Executive.
The document also sets out those matters directors attended a number of external courses and seminars on issues which must be reported to the Board such as significant litigation or ranging from board effectiveness to pensions simplication.
In addition, material breaches of compliance and covers how those matters requiring directors received an internal training session outside of the formal consideration by the Board outside scheduled Board meetings, are Board meeting regarding life assurance profit reporting.
internal training sessions have been built into the Boards work plan for The Boards terms of reference set out the procedure whereby directors 2005.
The Board made two site visits during the year in order to gain a may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional closer understanding of the businesses visited.
Richard Goeltz and advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
No director Russell Walls who joined the Board in May 2004 completed a detailed obtained any such independent professional advice during 2004. induction programme which was conducted over a six month period The document also sets out the separate roles and responsibilities of comprising 13 separate sessions including external visits to the Groups the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
main operating businesses and meetings with the external auditor and one of the Companys corporate brokers.
Lord Sharman who joined the Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board and committee meetings Board in January 2005 has commenced a similar programme.
on all matters to be discussed and at Board meetings they receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, risk management, Relations with shareholders regulatory compliance, key areas of the Groups business operations The Company places considerable importance on communication and other material issues.
The Board and its committees operate in line with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of issues.
with a work plan agreed prior to the start of each year.
As part of a comprehensive review of senior management remuneration conducted in 2004 the chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, consulted with institutional shareholder bodies, including the Association through the Chairman, on governance matters and ensuring that of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, and Board procedures are followed.
All directors have access to his advice also with the Companys 20 largest shareholders.
Investor Relations Department is dedicated to facilitating communication In line with the Boards work plan the Chairman and the non-executive with institutional investors and won a number of investor relations directors met on two occasions in the absence of the executive directors awards in 2004.
The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue to discuss the Group Chief Executives performance and executive and meetings between the executive directors and its major institutional succession planning.
shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the The Board has established a number of standing committees, including constraints of the information already known to the market.
Remuneration, Audit, and Nomination Committees.
Each committee operates within dened terms of reference and the minutes of their The directors consider it is important to understand the views of meetings are circulated to the Board.
Details of the work of the shareholders and in particular any issues which concern them.
At each respective committees, including their membership and duties, are set Board meeting they receive a note of the issues which have been out in the reports of the committees on pages 50 to 53. raised with management at the regular meetings held with the large investors.
During the year, the Chairman met with a number of major Performance reviews and directors development shareholders and the senior independent non-executive director spent The Company has for a number of years undertaken annual two separate days accompanying management at their regular meetings performance reviews to assess how well the Board, its committees or its held with major shareholders in order to note any issues of particular directors are performing.
Directors complete a questionnaire in which relevance to the non-executive directors.
Both the Chairman and the they assess the Boards and Committees processes and effectiveness senior independent non-executive director subsequently reported to the and consider areas where such may be improved.
In 2004 for the first Board the issues which were raised.
Arrangements for major time the process included a peer group review where the directors shareholders to meet with the non-executive directors can be made assessed their own and their fellow directors performance against set through the Company Secretary.
criteria, including the skills they bring and the contribution they make.
This process was complemented with separate meetings between each The Board is equally interested in the concerns of the Companys director and the Chairman.
The Board discussed the feedback from private shareholders.
In March 2004 the Company issued a postage the process when it met in September and a number of actions were paid reply card with its Annual General Meeting documentation agreed.
The review was conducted by the Chairman with the assistance to enable shareholders to put questions to the directors.
This was of the Group Company Secretary.
particularly helpful for those shareholders unable to attend the meeting.
Each question received a written response either through a brochure containing answers to the most frequently asked questions or, where appropriate, a personal letter.
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is simultaneously published on the Groups website affording all shareholders full access to the announcements.
48 Aviva plc 2004 The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable opportunity to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
The Company gave 26 working days notice of its Annual General Meeting in 2004.
Details of the proxy voting by shareholders are made available on request and are placed on the Companys website.
Whenever possible all directors attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and have an opportunity to meet with the directors after the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
The Companys Annual report and accounts and Annual review, together with the Companys interim reports, trading statements and other public announcements are designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review, operating and financial reviews on pages 2 to 41 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and will be supported by a presentation to be made at the Annual General Meeting.
Institutional investor Morley Fund Management Limited, the Groups asset management company believes that good governance contributes to better performance and practices.
Therefore, as a major investor, the Group monitors the governance of the companies in which it invests.
To this end Morley holds regular meetings with the senior management of companies where it will raise matters which may affect the future performance of those companies.
Morley maintains a detailed Corporate Governance and Voting Policy as part of its investment strategy, which underpins its approach to engaging and voting at company general meetings.
The policy also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical issues.
Its policy is applied pragmatically, after careful consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Morley makes detailed voting reports available to clients and publishes summary statistics on its website.
Directors responsibilities Directors are required to ensure that accounts are prepared for each accounting period which comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985, and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss for the period.
Suitable accounting policies have to be used and applied consistently in preparing accounts, using reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Applicable accounting and financial reporting standards also have to be followed, with any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group.
They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of internal control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the systems of internal controls maintained by the Group are more fully described in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 50 and 51.
Compliance with the Combined Code It is the Boards view that the Company has complied fully throughout the accounting period with the provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The auditors report on page 63 covers its review of the Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code as applicable to the Company during the year under review.
