Aviva plc 2004 Audit committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the assumptions and the methodology used and reviewed the restatements work it has undertaken during the year.
of the Companys 2003 and half year 2004 financial statements on the EEV basis.
Following a report from the Committee, the Company made The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging a recommendation to the Board to adopt the EEV principles in place of its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial the achieved profit basis for supplementary reporting for the year ended announcements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of 31 December 2004.
The EEV basis is considered to provide a better risk management, internal control and regulatory compliance and to reection of the results of the business, a greater level of transparency oversee the objectivity and effectiveness of the internal and external and, once other companies report on this basis, comparability.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available from the Group Company Secretary and can be viewed on the Companys With the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards website.
IFRS for the 2005 financial year the Committee has reviewed the progress of the Groups preparation for reporting under the new The Audit Committee standards and the processes that have been embedded throughout the The Audit Committee currently comprises the following independent Group.
The Committee has also reviewed the impact of adopting IFRS non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: on the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2004 and was satisfied that Derek Stevens Chairman suitable policies were being applied and were appropriate.
Richard Goeltz In addition, the Committee has reviewed the Groups capital and risk Carole Piwnica frameworks to reect the regulatory reforms incorporated in the Russell Walls Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook PSB and the Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls were appointed members of the approach to the Internal Capital Assessment ICA methodology Committee in July 2004 and George Paul and Guillermo fide la assumptions and initial results.
The Committee considered the Dehesa stood down from membership respectively in August and assumptions and methodology used, the process followed and the September 2004.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2004 and adequacy of the resources.
the members attendance record is set out on page 47.
The Group Each of the Groups major business units has formally constituted Company secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
audit committees which provide an oversight role for their business.
Derek Stevens, a Chartered Accountant, is a member of the financial All such committees include some members who are independent of sector committee of the Accounting Standards Board and is a former the relevant business.
The Group Audit Director reviews the papers Chief Financial officer of British Airways plc and the TSB Group plc.
and minutes from these committees and all significant matters are Richard Goeltz is a former Chief Financial officer of American Express brought to the Committees attention.
Company, NatWest Group plc and The Seagram Company Limited.
The Committee receives reports from the external auditor and regularly Russell Walls is a former Group Finance Director of BAA plc, Wellcome holds discussions with both the internal and external auditors in the plc and Coats Viyella plc.
The Board is satisfied that all these directors absence of Management.
In order that the Board is kept fully appraised have recent and relevant financial experience.
of the Committees work, the chairman of the Committee reports at the The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit subsequent meeting of the Board and the Board receives a copy of the Director and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Other members of senior management External auditor are also invited to attend as appropriate in order to present reports.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed auditor of the Company in 2001 In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of having previously been the auditor of Norwich Union plc.
The audit the Group Audit Director and the Group Company Secretary and their signing partner changed as part of a rotation process in 2002. resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
Ernst & Young LLP audits the whole of the Group other than Delta Lloyd, The Committee undertakes its duties in line with an agreed annual work the Groups subsidiary in the Netherlands which also has operations in plan.
It reviews, with members of management and the internal and Belgium and Germany which is audited by  LLP external auditors, the Companys formal financial announcements PwC.
To full its Group reporting responsibilities Ernst & Young LLP including the Annual report and accounts to shareholders and reviews the work of PwC in accordance with standard auditing practices.
associated documentation, with a particular emphasis on their fair The Company has a formal policy aimed at safeguarding and supporting representation and the reasonableness of the judgmental factors and the independence of the auditor by avoiding conicts of interests.
In line appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in their with the best practice recommendations contained in the Combined preparation.
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from the Code, the Committee reviews each quarter, compliance with the policy Group Audit Director.
Twice each year, the Committee receives reports concerning the use of the external auditor in non-audit work.
regarding the adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general The policy regulates the appointment of former audit employees into insurance reserves and on a regular basis it receives reports on risk senior finance positions within the Group and sets out the approach management, fraud, anti money laundering, legal and corporate to be taken by the Group when using the services of the auditor, governance matters in order to help it assess the effectiveness of the risk distinguishing between those matters where the Company requires an management and control frameworks.
These reports include material independent view, such as audit and assurance work, from other notications arising under the Group policy on whistleblowing.
In addition to statutory audits, audit and assurance The Committee also reviews the annual operating plan for the Groups work includes reviewing statutory returns, actuarial assurance, regulatory internal audit function.
The Group Compliance Director reports to the advice which requires auditor reporting, due diligence associated with Committee regularly on the Groups compliance with appropriate rules acquisitions and disposals, fraud investigations and control and audit and regulations and highlights any significant regulatory developments reviews.
The auditor cannot be engaged for any other purpose, and compliance issues which have arisen.
although the policy recognises that there may be a small number of The Committee has responsibility for considering any proposed changes areas where, for pragmatic reasons, it may be in the Groups interests to in accounting practices and policies.
During the year the Committee use the external auditor for this work.
During the year the Committee reviewed the principles underlying the European Embedded Value EEV also reviewed independence issues in relation to PwC which audit basis of reporting life assurance results.
The Committee considered the Delta Lloyd.
50 Aviva plc 2004 During the year the external auditor was appointed to undertake sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups assurance work in relation to the Groups major finance transformation operations worldwide: and dened procedures for the approval of major programme and its preparedness for PSB requirements which came transactions and capital allocation.
The Group is also preparing for into effect at the beginning of 2005.
In addition, the external auditor future changes to the regulatory regime impacting on governance.
has audited and reviewed the Groups results on the EEV basis for In addition during 2003 and 2004, the Group has adapted its risk and the year ended 31 December 2003 and for the first half year 2004. governance frameworks to implement the PSB the Financial Services The external auditor also continues to provide audit services on the Authoritys new risk-based framework for integrating and embedding Groups implementation of the new standards on the IFRS basis.
Further details on financial and capital risk management are given in the financial review on pages 39 to 41.
The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP in 2004 were 14.9 million of which 4.8 million related to non-audit work reecting substantial Risk identication, assessment and management projects referred to above.
Further details are provided in note 12 on The Group has an established system of business risk management, page 82. which is integrated into the Groups business planning and performance monitoring processes.
The Groups risk management and control The Committee reviews annually a formal letter provided by the external framework is designed to support the identication, assessment, auditor conrming its independence and objectivity within the context of monitoring and control of risks that are significant to the achievement applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
of the Groups business objectives.
There is an established risk During the year the Committee instigated an annual review procedure management network across the Group, with dedicated risk to assess the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external management teams within Head Ofce and within each of the auditor through an evaluation of both the audit rm and audit teams.
The overseas businesses also have risk The process was conducted by means of a questionnaire completed by management functions, a number of which are combined with either members of senior management and members of the Groups finance compliance or internal audit.
These teams use a consistent methodology, community which sought opinions against certain criteria and the and are responsible for assessing and reporting the potential impact and perceived importance of such.
The questionnaires were collated by probability of the most significant risks identied across the Group and the Group Company Secretary.
Based on this review the Committee the adequacy of the mitigating action programmes.
These impact concluded that the audit service of Ernst & Young LLP provided a assessments are based on financial, reputational and operational criteria good examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
and take into account social, ethical and environmental risks as well as business risks.
Internal audit At the beginning of 2004 the Groups internal audit function formed Businesses report residual risk proles, based on local materiality levels part of a wider Group Business Risk department which had responsibility on a regular basis.
A consolidated Group risk report is reviewed regularly for the risk management process and a number of other governance by a Group Business Risk Committee, under the chairmanship of the issues.
However during the year, in line with emerging best practice, Group Finance Director.
Each quarter, material items in the Group risk the internal audit and risk management functions were separated at report are reported to the Groups Executive Committee, the Audit the Group level to ensure a sharper focus and to emphasise the Committee and the Board, who consider whether residual risks are independence of the internal audit assurance function.
Accordingly the within risk appetite and the adequacy of the risk mitigating actions.
Group Audit Director is now solely responsible for internal audit and Local business unit boards, audit committees and management also financial crime which covers fraud and money laundering investigations.
consider local risk reports in a similar way.
These regular reports are Following this restructuring the Committee has approved several supported by escalation procedures for new or deteriorating risks that changes aimed at enhancing the utilisation of the internal audit are classied at the highest impact levels.
The Committee is planning a review In addition, all business unit heads and Group functional heads of the effectiveness of internal audit in 2006. provide to the Group a formal certicate every six months conrming Internal controls compliance with the Groups governance and risk management The Board has the ultimate responsibility for the systems of internal frameworks and the terms of their delegated authority.
They are also control maintained by the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
required to specify any risks or control issues not already reported The systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not an through the regular risk management processes.
absolute guarantee, against material financial misstatement or loss, Control procedures and monitoring systems and include the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper The Group has a well-developed system of planning and monitoring, accounting records, the reliability of financial information, compliance which incorporates Board approval of a rolling three-year Group Plan.
with appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, and the Performance against the Plan is subsequently monitored and reported identication and containment of business risks.
to the Board each time it meets.
This report also includes reports on risk, The Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, undertakes an annual audit, compliance, solvency and liquidity.
Performance is also reported review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the formally through the publication of Group results, and accounting framework for the Groups systems of internal control.
During the policies are applied consistently throughout the Group.
Operational year the Committee has received regular reports on the status of management report frequently to the executive directors and the Board major finance systems development projects.
In the Boards view, receives regular representations from management responsible for each the information received was sufficient to enable it to review the principal business operation.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls in accordance This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 8 March 2005. with the Guidance on Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance.
The principal features of the control framework are as follows: Derek Stevens Control environment Chairman, Audit Committee The Group has an established governance framework.
The key features of the control environment within the framework include: the terms of reference for the Board and each of its committees: a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of authority from the Board to executive management: a Group policy framework, which 51 Audit committee report
