Aviva plc 2004 Nomination committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee In terms of the work undertaken during the year, the Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
identied a number of potential non-executive directors as part of planning for the succession of some of the current non-executive The Committee currently comprises the following directors, appointed directors who have provided long service to the Board and as a by the Board: consequence acquired valuable knowledge of the Company and the Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman industry.
In particular the Committee was seeking directors with strong Guillermo fide la Dehesa financial backgrounds who could help with the work of the Audit Richard Harvey Committee and the growing demands being made upon it.
Following Wim Dik recommendations from the Committee, which were unanimously Andr Villeneuve approved by the Board, Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls were appointed directors in May 2004 and subsequently joined the Audit Wim Dik was appointed a member of the Committee in April 2004 Committee, and Lord Sharman of Redlynch was appointed to the Board in place of Elizabeth Vallance.
The Committee met on five occasions in January 2005.
In each case executive search consultants were used to in 2004 and the members attendance record is set out on page 47. identify suitable candidates and to assist with the preparation of the The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
In terms of succession planning the appointments of the The terms of reference of the Committee require it to deal with the new directors allowed George Paul to stand down as a member of the constitution of the Board and to consider the succession of the directors.
The Committee reviews the skills, experiences and independence of its The appointment of four new non-executive directors over the past two directors and, as appropriate, identies and assesses potential new years will allow for the planned retirement of George Paul and Elizabeth directors.
It also reviews those directors retiring by rotation in accordance Vallance at the end of 2005.
Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve are with the Companys articles of association with a view to making also long serving directors and the Committee has been reviewing the recommendations to the Board regarding their re-election.
A copy of the necessary skill and knowledge replacement with the intention that these Committees terms of reference is available from the Group Company directors will retire on or before 31 December 2006.
Secretary and can be viewed on the Companys website.
The Committee also made a recommendation to the Board that Andrew In fullling its duties the Committee monitors the skill requirements Moss, who was Director of Finance, Risk Management and Operations of the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and at Lloyds be invited to join the Board as Group Finance Director to performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests succeed Mike Biggs who resigned with effect from December 2003. with a view to identifying any actual or perceived potential conicts of The Committees recommendation was approved and Andrew Moss interests, including the time which they are able to commit to their joined the Company in May 2004. duties to the Company.
The Committee also monitors matters relating to the independence of each non-executive director.
The Companys Chairman, Pehr Gyllenhammar, will attain age 70 in The results of these reviews are taken into account when the Board 2005 and therefore during the year the Committee has been giving considers succession planning and the reappointment of directors.
consideration to the appointment of a successor.
George Paul, the Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions senior independent non-executive director joined and chaired the concerning their own circumstances.
Committee for these particular discussions.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 8 March 2005.
Pehr G Gyllenhammar Chairman, Nomination Committee 52
