Corporate Governance Introduction The Manager and custodian maintain their own systems of The directors are accountable to shareholders for the internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive governance of the Companys affairs.
regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance This statement describes how the principles of the against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
In applying The Board has established a process for identifying, the principles of the Code, the directors have also taken evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the the Association of Investment Trust Companies the AITC Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Code, which established the framework of best practice Directors on the Combined Code published in September specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two The Manager is responsible for the day to day investment Codes and there are some areas where the AITC Code is management decisions on behalf of the Company and for more flexible for investment trust companies.
the provision of company secretarial and accounting The directors believe that during the period under review services.
A statement of the Managers responsibilities is they have complied with the provisions of the Code, insofar shown on page 18 in the Report of the Directors.
as they apply to the Companys business, and with the The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an provisions of the AITC Code.
annual review of the Companys system of internal control Application of the Codes Principles and the business risks have been analysed and recorded in The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives both the Code and the AITC Code and observes the each quarter from the Manager a formal report which relevant Main and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to including those that are not directly the responsibility of the day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the Manager, and which reports the details of any known directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the Internal Controls control policies and procedures in operation.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of internal controls and for reviewing their The Company does not have an internal audit function: it effectiveness.
These controls aim to ensure that assets of delegates to third parties its day to day operations and does the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records not employ any staff.
The Board will continue to monitor its are maintained, and the financial information used within the system of internal control in order to provide assurance that business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks it operates as intended and the directors review annually identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
management, is embedded in the controls of the Company Board Independence and Composition by a series of regular investment performance and The Board currently consists of seven directors, all of whom attribution statements, financial and risk analyses and are non-executive.
Following the introduction of the Code Managers reports, and a quarterly control report.
Key risks the directors have reviewed their independence.
Mr Moule have been identified and controls have been put in place to was employed by the Manager until June 2003: however, mitigate such risks, including those risks that are not directly this relationship is not considered to impair his the responsibility of the Manager.
The effectiveness of the independence.
The Nominations Committee considered the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance continued appointment of Mr Brewster, Mr Morley and Mr and risk department on a continuing basis.
Moule who have served on the Board for over nine years.
23 Corporate Governance continued They have no other links to the Manager with the including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial exception of Mr Moule, a wide range of other interests and reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share are not dependent in any way on the Company itself.
The price discount, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment Nominations Committee concluded that Mr Brewster, Mr restrictions, performance, corporate governance and board Morley and Mr Moule continue to make a valuable membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding their length discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and of service, they remain independent in character and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the judgement.
The Board subscribes to the AITC Codes view Board reviews the Companys investment performance and that length of tenure is not in itself felt to be an issue, rather considers financial analyses and other reports of an the directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of the operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the need to maintain continuity on the Board, and believes that Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the Company and the markets is of great benefit to Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the shareholders.
Mr Moule has indicated his intention to retire management of the investment portfolio, which is from the Board at the AGM in 2006. contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments and The directors biographies, on page 2, demonstrate the all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the breadth of investment, commercial and professional Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors in the experience relevant to their positions as directors on the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Board of the Company.
advice at the expense of the Company.
Chairman The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the The Chairman is Mr Barker, a non-executive director who investment trust companies managed by the Manager: has no conflicting relationships.
Since all directors are these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters non-executive and day to day management responsibilities and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
are sub-contracted to the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Barker has announced The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees his intention to retire at this years Annual General Meeting held during the year and the attendance of individual and does not seek re-election.
He will be succeeded as directors are shown below.
All directors attend the Annual Chairman by Mr Brewster.
Board Additional Audit Nominations Management Charities Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director Strategy Committee Committee Engagement Committee Meeting Note 4 On 19 December 2003, Mr Richard Brewster was appointed No of meetings 10 1 2 2 1 2 Deputy Chairman of the Board.
Subject to shareholder Mr A C Barker 9 1 n a 2 1 n a Mr R C Brewster 10 1 2 2 1 2 approval of his re-election at the forthcoming AGM, he will Mr R Killingbeck 8 1 n a n a 1 n a succeed Mr Barker as Chairman of the Company.
Mr Francis Note 1 Mr J Morley 9 1 1 1 1 n a Sumner will be appointed as Senior Independent Director Mr M Moule 10 1 n a 1 1 n a from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Note 2 Mr F I Sumner 9 1 2 2 1 2 Mr D Thomas 10 1 1 1 1 n a Meetings Note 3 Currently the Board meets nine times per annum and is The membership of each committee is shown on page 2. responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at Notes: 1.
Mr Killingbeck joined on 19 December 2003, and therefore was only various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of eligible to attend 9 meetings.
the Board may be arranged as required, as was the case this 2.
Mr Moule is not an independent director and is therefore not a member of year when a separate strategy meeting was held.
The Board the Board Committees however he is on occasion invited to attend.
has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 3.
Mr Thomas became a member of the Audit Committee in July 2004.
The membership of the Nominations Committee changed during the year.
decision, which are categorised under various headings 24 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Mr Morley, Mr Sumner and Mr Thomas.
The Chairman of the The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set Committee is Mr Barker.
The Committee meets at least out below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly annually to review the investment management agreement define the responsibilities and duties for each Committee with the Companys Manager and to review the services are available on the website or on request and will be provided by the Manager.
During the year, the Company available for inspection at the AGM.
reviewed and made a number of amendments to the management agreement.
A statement by the Management Audit Committee Engagement Committee of Henderson Global Investors The Audit Committee comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Sumner, responsibilities as Managers and administrators of the Mr Morley and Mr Thomas, all of whom are considered Company can be found in the Report of the Directors on independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is pages 18 and 19.
Mr Morley will assume the role of Audit Committee Chairman when Mr Brewster is appointed as Nomination Committee Chairman of the Board, as Mr Brewster will no longer be a The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Barker, Mr member of the Audit Committee.
The Board has satisfied Brewster and Mr Sumner.
The Chairman of the Nomination itself that at least one of the Committees members has Committee is Mr Barker.
The Committee, which meets at recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee least annually, reviews the Boards size and structure and is has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsible for Board succession planning.
The Board has considered the option of using external The Committee meets at least twice each year to review recruitment consultants when appointing new directors the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and, whilst it believes that this is unlikely to provide any and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of meaningful advantage over the internal process that has the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders and been adopted, the option of using such a consultant will to review the accounting policies and significant financial be kept under review.
The appointment of Mr Killingbeck reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews in December 2003 was made without the use of the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, external consultants.
appointment and remuneration, the quality of the services Charities Committee of the service providers to the Company, and, together with The Charities Committee comprises Mr Brewster and the Managers, reviews the Companys compliance with Mr Sumner who consider requests for charitable donations financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
of a limited nature within a set criteria.
During the year Representatives of the Managers internal audit and donations were made totalling 6,500 2003: 5,000. compliance department attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
Directors Remuneration As the Board has no executive directors and no Representatives of , the employees and is comprised solely of non-executives, Companys auditors, attend the Committee meeting at it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
The which the draft Annual Report and financial statements are Company therefore is not required to comply with the reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to the principles of the Code in respect of executive directors Committee members without the presence of the remuneration.
It is the responsibility of the Board as a representatives of the Manager.
whole to determine and approve directors fees following The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the proper consideration having regard to the level of fees AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
payable to non-executive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect Management Engagement Committee of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time The Management Engagement Committees membership committed to the Companys affairs.
comprises Mr Barker, Mr Brewster, Mr Killingbeck, 25 Corporate Governance continued The Chairmans remuneration is decided and approved by directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they the Board under the leadership of the Deputy Chairman.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees and industry seminars.
payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per annum.
Performance Evaluation Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the the directors of the Company can be found in the directors Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 22. put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
Tenure Policy This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and No director has a contract of employment with the interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager and Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment Company Secretary also participated in this part of the are set out in letters of appointment which are available for process to provide all round feedback to the Board.
In inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will respect of the Chairman, interviews were held between the be available at the AGM.
directors and the Deputy Chairman.
The process is considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of The Articles of Association provide that one-third of the identifying areas for improving the functioning and directors must retire by rotation and may offer themselves performance of the Board and the Committees, the for re-election at each AGM.
The terms of the directors contribution of individual directors, as well as building on appointment also provide that a director shall retire and be and developing individual and collective strengths.
subject to re-election at the first AGM after appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
The performance of the Company is considered in detail at each Board meeting.
The Board believes that each of the directors exercises independent judgement and that length of service does not The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a directors and services provided by the Manager which, through its experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a nominated representative is responsible for ensuring that positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, long-serving the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
This view applicable regulations are complied with.
During the year is supported by the AITC Code.
However, as four of the the Company has maintained insurance cover in respect of directors have served on the Board for more than nine legal action against the directors.
years their independence is assessed according to the Appointment of the Investment Manager criteria set out in the Combined Code Code provision The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each A.
In light of Code provision A.
7.2, the directors who Board meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee have served for nine years or more, with the exception of regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Mr Barker, will be seeking annual re-election from Manager.
These directors are named on page 2.
Under In the opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the Companys articles of association all directors must the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the retire by the next annual general meeting after they attain Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has the age of 70. extensive investment management resources and wide Directors Training experience in managing and administering investment trust When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a companies.
training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are The Board has delegated contractually to external third also provided on a regular basis with key information on the parties, including the Manager, the management of the Companys activities including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting investment portfolio, the custodial services which include 26 Corporate Governance continued the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day Relations with Shareholders accounting, company secretarial, administration and Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the Company communicates with shareholders is through the quality and cost of the services offered, including the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts which aim to control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the affairs of the Company.
Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication The Board receives and considers regular reports from the at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager Financial Reporting following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Accounts is set out on page 20, the Independent the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
Auditors Report on page 42 and the Statement of Going All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Voting Policy Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders The Manager has developed and published a policy on so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the Corporate Governance, Voting Policy and Socially AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance Responsible Investment in respect of UK investments.
The of the AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Company policy reflects the statement of principles on the Secretary at the address given on page 48.
At other times responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a drawn up in 2002 by the Institutional Shareholders range of issues.
The Manager believes the interests of its clients General presentations to both shareholders and analysts are served by investing in companies that adopt best follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings practice and corporate governance.
between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
