Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Chairmans Introduction Statement from Barclays PLC Board of Directors 2004 has been a year of major change for Barclays.
At the beginning The Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the year we reorganised some of our businesses under new leaders.
As a UK listed Company, Barclays is required to state whether it has In September, we completed our succession plans for the leadership of complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the UK Listing the Group, four months ahead of schedule.
The smoothness of the Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and, transition was a testament to the robust and effective corporate where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an governance practices that we already had in place.
We are also required to explain how we have applied the principles set out in the Code.
As Chairman, I recognise that good corporate governance practices are the cornerstone of an effective organisation and this will be one of For the year ended 31st December 2004, Barclays has complied with my top priorities going forward.
You will read in this report about the the provisions and applied the principles of the Code as described enhancements that have been made to promote the highest standards below.
For the appointment of Matthew W Barrett as Chairman on of corporate governance in Barclays.
Of course, good corporate 1st September 2004, we followed the Codes recommendation on the governance depends on the quality and integrity of Directors and, approach to take where a companys Chief Executive becomes having conducted an independently facilitated review of overall Board Chairman.
We consulted with our major institutional shareholders in effectiveness, the Board concluded that it is functioning in a highly advance of the decision being made and sent a letter, explaining the effective manner.
Nonetheless, areas for improvement were identified Boards decision to all shareholders on 6th November 2003.
That letter and we will continue to challenge ourselves to improve our standards was reproduced in full, together with some additional commentary, in further.
Our goal is to ensure that Barclays is an exemplar organisation the 2003 Annual Report.
A copy is available upon request to the in the field of corporate governance.
Our existing framework is a Company Secretary and is also available on the Companys website, strong base upon which to build.
In addition, and in accordance with best practice, Mr Barrett will be standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM, his first AGM since becoming Chairman.
Board Structure As at the date of this report, the Board consists of the Chairman, who has no executive responsibilities, five executive Directors and eight non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent by the Board.
The Board, excluding the Chairman, has a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
During 2004, Sir Richard Broadbent and Sir Nigel Rudd, both of whom are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors, were appointed as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, respectively.
The appointment of a Senior Independent Director was considered by the Board to be an important enhancement to its existing corporate governance practices.
It ensured that the Board had the required checks and balances in place when the Group Chief Executive became Chairman.
Role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and the Board has agreed their respective responsibilities.
The Chairmans main responsibility is to lead and manage the work of the Board to ensure that it operates effectively and fully discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Non-executive Directors, based on their breadth of knowledge and experience, challenge, monitor and approve the strategy and policies recommended by the Group Chief Executive.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive is supported in this by the Group Executive Committee, which he chairs.
This Committee comprises the Group Finance Director, the heads of the Groups major businesses and the Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee usually meets weekly to develop strategies and policies for recommendation to the Board and to implement the strategy approved by the Board.
21 Corporate governance Corporate governance report During the year, work commenced on a Charter of Expectations, which Board Meetings sets out both the Role Profile and the behaviours and competencies The Board meets regularly, usually ten times a year, including a full day required for each role on the Board, namely Chairman, Deputy Chairman, each year devoted to the Groups strategy.
Regular items discussed at Senior Independent Director, non-executive Directors, executive Directors Board meetings include the Group Finance Directors Report reviewing and Committee Chairmen.
The Charter will provide a yardstick against monthly financial information, the Group Chief Executives Report on which each Directors effectiveness will be evaluated during 2005.
A copy the key issues affecting the Group and its businesses, strategy updates of the Charter is available on the Groups website www.
com or from the Groups main businesses and Reports from the Chairmen of can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
the Board Audit, Risk, Corporate Governance and Nominations and HR and Remuneration Committees.
Appointment of Directors The process for appointing new Directors to the Board is determined The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, including by the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, the the approval of interim and final financial statements, significant operation of which is described on page 23.
Criteria for the desired changes in accounting policy and practice, the appointment or background and competencies of new non-executive Directors are removal of Directors or the Company Secretary, changes to the agreed and reported to the Board before a search commences.
The Groups capital structure and major acquisitions, mergers, disposals Chairman, Group Chief Executive and at least two members of the and capital expenditure.
Committee interview each potential new Director, who has typically The Chairman encourages open discussion and frank debate at been identified with the assistance of external search consultants, meetings.
This gives the non-executive Directors the opportunity to before an appointment is recommended to the Board.
provide effective challenge to management.
The Chairman meets Induction and Training privately with all the non-executive Directors prior to each Board On appointment to the Board and to Board Committees, all Directors meeting to brief them on the business being considered at the receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual meeting and to address any concerns they may have.
The induction, which is arranged by the Company All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and Secretary, includes meetings with senior management and key his team.
Independent professional advice is also available, on request, external advisors, to assist them in building a detailed understanding to all Directors at the Companys expense.
of how the Group works and the key issues it faces.
Directors are also encouraged to make site visits to see the Groups operations.
Independence of non-executive Directors In addition, investor bodies and major investors are given the The Code set outs circumstances which may be relevant to the Boards opportunity to meet with new non-executive Directors on their determination of whether a non-executive Director is independent.
appointment to discuss any concerns they have about the Group.
These include whether the Director has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board has carefully considered the issue of Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues independence and has concluded that the following behaviours are are arranged by the Company Secretary.
For example, during 2004, essential for the Board to consider a Director to be independent: members of the Board Audit Committee received briefings by the Groups external auditors on audit committee effectiveness and the valuation of Provides objective challenge to management.
Additional training for the Board Risk Committee has Is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints included a presentation on Daily Value at Risk.
as necessary for the good of the organisation.
Questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges Board Effectiveness rigorously and decides dispassionately.
During the year, a review was conducted of Board effectiveness.
The Is willing to stand up to defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in Board enlisted the services of the management consulting firm, Egon order to support the ultimate good of the organisation.
Zehnder International, to facilitate a revised evaluation process for the Has a good understanding of the organisations businesses and Board, Board Committees and individual Directors.
The process was affairs to enable them to properly evaluate information and based on a detailed questionnaire, which was sent to each Director, responses provided by management.
Peer group evaluation of Sir Nigel Rudd has now served on the Board for more than nine years, Directors was also undertaken as part of this process.
A report on having been appointed in February 1996.
The recent evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of Board Committees Directors reinforced the opinion of the Board that Sir Nigel remains was made to the Board at its meeting in December 2004. independent, notwithstanding his length of tenure.
Sir Nigel Feedback on the performance of Board Committees was shared with demonstrates each of the behaviours set out above and there is no the Committee Chairmen, while feedback on individual Directors was evidence that length of tenure is having an adverse impact on his discussed with the Chairman.
The Chairman then held private meetings independence.
The Board believes his experience and knowledge of with each Director to discuss the results and agree on developmental the Groups business, combined with his external business experience, areas.
Feedback on the performance of the Chairman was provided to enables him to provide both effective challenge and make a Sir Richard Broadbent, the Senior Independent Director, who discussed constructive contribution to Board discussions.
The Board considers the results privately with the other non-executive Directors and the therefore that Sir Nigel continues to be independent.
Group Chief Executive before meeting with the Chairman.
As a result of the review, the Board concluded that it was operating in a highly effective manner.
Action plans have been developed in respect of those areas identified for improvement.
22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 The Board considers Sir Nigels continued chairmanship of the Board The Committees responsibilities were extended during the year to HR and Remuneration Committee as essential for continuity.
It will also cover corporate governance issues, including consideration of the allow new members of the Committee to become fully effective while Groups responses to important developments in corporate the Board considers the succession to Chairman of the Committee.
governance and overseeing the annual performance evaluation of the Sir Richard Broadbent was appointed to the Board HR and Remuneration Board, each committee of the Board, the Chairman of the Board led Committee during the year and another member will be appointed by the Senior Independent Director, the Group Chief Executive and during 2005.
The continued membership of both Sir Nigel and David individual Directors.
Arculus, who has served on the Committee since 1997, is considered During 2004, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board to be of particular importance in a period when the Group is and each of the Board Committees and determined its view of the introducing a new long-term incentive plan.
ideal mix of skills and experience required.
It also reviewed the process Having considered the matter carefully, the Board has determined that for appointing new Directors and appointed new external search each of the non-executive Directors is independent.
In line with the consultants to assist it in identifying potential new Directors.
Codes recommendation, Sir Nigel will stand for re-election annually In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved the approach by shareholders.
to Board, Board Committee and individual Director evaluation.
Board Committees Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board Committees, Membership which have access to independent expert advice at the Groups expense.
The Committee currently comprises four independent non-executive The terms of reference for the principal Board Committees are available, Directors.
During the year, the Board appointed Sir Andrew Likierman on request, from the Company Secretary and from the Companys as a member of the Committee and has determined him to be a website at www.
The principal Board Committees are the financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Board Audit Committee, the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, that he has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the by the Code.
Membership of each Committee is set out in the Meetings Directors biographies on pages 16 to 18.
During 2004, the Committee met five times with senior management, Board HR and Remuneration Committee including the Group Chief Executive or Deputy Chief Executive, the During 2004, the remit of the Board Remuneration Committee was Vice-Chairman Chris Lendrum, the Group Finance Director, the extended to include reviewing strategic Human Resources HR issues Risk Director and the Internal Audit Director.
The lead audit partner and it was renamed the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
of the external auditors,  LLP, also attended each meeting.
The Committee, chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, meets at least four times a year.
It considers matters relating to executive reward, including policy The Committee receives at each meeting comprehensive reports from for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and their management and the internal and external auditors to enable it to individual remuneration awards.
The Committee approves changes to discharge its responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Committee incentive and benefits plans applicable to senior executives and are to approve and review the appointment and retirement of the governs employee share schemes.
Details of the Committees role external auditors, as well as oversee their relationship with the Group in governing Directors rewards are set out in Barclays Report on including consideration and approval of all audit and non-audit Remuneration on pages 27 to 39. services provided by the external auditor: to monitor the effectiveness of and receive regular reports from the internal audit function: to The Committee also reviews strategic HR issues including, but not review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management standards limited to, employee retention, motivation and commitment: Equality and review reports on control issues of Group level significance: to and Diversity: significant employee relations matters and the review the Groups annual and interim financial statements, including availability of talent for senior roles below executive Director level.
the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and systems of internal control over financial reporting: to review The role of this Committee was also revised during the year and arrangements established by management for compliance with the the remit extended to include corporate governance issues.
requirements of the Groups regulators and to receive reports on the The Committee was consequently renamed the Board Corporate effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, as well as Governance and Nominations Committee.
While the Committee met reports on specific instances of whistleblowing.
The Committee also only once during 2004, it will in future meet at least three times a year.
met privately with the external and internal auditors after each Committee meeting.
The Committee is responsible for considering matters relating to the composition of the Board, including the appointment of new Directors, The Committee also meets once a year specifically to review and making recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
It also reviews approve the audit plans for the following year for the external and annually the succession plans for the Chairman and Group Chief internal auditors.
Executive and other key Board positions.
The Chairman of the Board Relationship with the External Auditors chairs the Committee, except when the Committee is considering the The Committee annually appraises the effectiveness of the external Chairmans succession, in which case the Senior Independent Director auditors.
The evaluation process includes a questionnaire completed chairs the Committee.
by senior members of the Finance function.
The results are then 23 Corporate governance Corporate governance report reported to the Committee.
The lead audit partner is also rotated on For the disclosures made in the 2004 Annual Report, the Committee, a five-year basis and consequently a new lead audit partner will take having reviewed the report of the Disclosure Committee and the over following the publication of this Annual Report.
Turnbull attestations made by senior management, has concluded and reported to the Board for their approval that the Group has maintained The Committee has put in place a detailed policy on the provision of effective disclosure controls and procedures and that management has services by the external auditors.
Under the policy, the Committee has continued to operate an effective system of internal control.
agreed which services the external auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and which ones they are prohibited from doing.
This Work of the Committee during 2004 policy aims to safeguard the independence of the external auditor.
In addition to the regular items discussed by the Committee, described above, the Committee received reports from Business Heads on the The external auditors are prohibited from providing bookkeeping or control environment affecting their businesses and more detailed other services related to the Groups accounting records or financial reports on specific control issues.
statements, financial information systems design and implementation, appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-inThe Committee also received regular reports on the progress of two kind reports, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing, major regulatory projects, namely the implementation of International management functions or other secondments, human resource Financial Reporting Standards and the implementation of s. 404 of the functions including recruitment selection, broker or dealer, US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, whereby management and the investment adviser or investment banking services, legal and expert external auditors will have to attest to the effectiveness of the Groups services and tax services involving advocacy.
systems of internal control over financial reporting.
The Committee has concluded that the Group is on track to deliver these projects, but Allowable services that may be provided by the external auditors are will keep them under ongoing review.
statutory audit services, regulatory audit services, other attest and assurance services, regulatory non-audit services and taxation services The Committee is confident that it has the required skills and experience not involving advocacy.
They may also provide accountancy advice, to fully discharge its responsibilities.
risk management and controls advice and carry out transaction Board Risk Committee Chairmans Statement support and business support and recoveries.
For these allowable The Committee met three times during the year, but will normally services, the Committee has pre-approved all assignments where the meet four times a year.
The purpose of the Committee is to approve expected fee does not exceed 100,000, or 25,000 in the case of the Groups overall risk appetite, including limits for individual types of taxation services, although such assignments must be reported to the risk, including credit, market and operational risk.
The Committee also next meeting of the Committee.
Any assignment where the expected approves material changes to the overall risk appetite and monitors fee is above the relevant threshold requires specific approval from the the Groups risk profile, including risk trends and concentrations, Committee.
The Committee has delegated authority to the Chairman provisions experience against budget and key performance indicators of the Committee, or, in his absence an authorised member of the for risk.
A key role of the Committee is also to obtain assurance that Committee, to approve such assignments in between meetings of the principal risks facing the Group have been properly identified and the Committee.
A proposed service that does not fall either within the definition of In order to assess the effectiveness of the Groups risk control prohibited or allowable services requires the approval of the Committee.
framework, the Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk A member of the Group Executive Committee must explain the business measurement systems and receives reports from management case for the provision of that service by the external auditor to the confirming that they have reviewed the Groups risk control standards.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor during An overview of the Groups risk management and control framework the year is set out on page 142.
Where any service requires approval can be found on page 44.
The Board approved the Committees revised from the Committee, management must set out the reasons why the approach in November 2004. external auditor has been chosen, rather than an alternative provider.
Signed on behalf of the Board Audit and Board Risk Committees Details of all services carried out by the external auditor are recorded centrally and reported to the next meeting of the Committee, which spends time at each meeting considering the independence of the external auditor based on this information.
Stephen Russell For the year ended 31st December 2004, the Committee has Board Audit and Board Risk Committee Chairman concluded that the external auditor remains independent and is effective.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that they propose the re-appointment of the external auditors to shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
Financial Reporting The Committee has continued to play a pivotal role in reviewing the Groups annual and interim financial statements, including reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures and systems of internal control.
24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings Details of the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and of Board Committees of which they were members during 2004 are as follows: Board Board Corporate HR and Governance and Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir Peter Middleton 6 6 2 2 retired until 1st September 2004 1st September 2004 Matthew W Barrett 10 10 1 1 appointed 23rd September 2004 John Varley 10 10 1 1 until 5th February 2004 Chris Lendrum 10 10 Roger Davis 10 10 Gary Hoffman 10 10 Naguib Kheraj 10 10 David Roberts 10 10 David Arculus 9 10 5 6 1 1 Sir Richard Broadbent 10 10 5 5 1 1 2 2 appointed appointed appointed 1st April 2004 23rd September 1st April 2004 2004 Dame Hilary Cropper 7 10 1 3 died 26th December 2004 Leigh Clifford 3 3 appointed 1st October 2004 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 9 10 5 5 Sir Brian Jenkins 6 6 3 3 4 4 2 2 retired until until until 1st September 2004 1st September 2004 1st September 2004 1st September 2004 Sir Andrew Likierman 4 4 2 2 1 1 appointed appointed appointed 1st September 2004 1st September 23rd September 2004 2004 Stephen Russell 9 10 5 5 1 1 3 3 appointed 23rd September 2004 Sir Nigel Rudd 10 10 6 6 1 1 Dr Jrgen Zech 10 10 5 5 25 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Statement on US Corporate Governance standards financial performance and investment activities.
Throughout Europe As a non-US company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, and in the US, we arrange roadshows about the Group for key investors.
Barclays is required to disclose any significant ways in which its The Chairman meets regularly with investor bodies and investors to corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic discuss the Groups approach to corporate governance issues.
US companies listed on the NYSE.
As Barclays main listing is on the Sir Richard Broadbent, the Senior Independent Director, is available London Stock Exchange, it follows the United Kingdom Listing to investors should they wish to raise any issues with him.
Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Key differences are set out below.
The Group aims to provide a first class service to private shareholders to help them in the effective and efficient management of their The way in which Barclays makes determinations of Directors shareholding in Barclays.
The main methods of communicating with independence differs from the NYSE rules.
02 sets out private shareholders are the Annual Report, the Annual Review and five tests for Director independence.
In addition to those tests, the the AGM.
NYSE also requires that the Board affirmatively determines that the Director has no material relationship with the company either directly Barclays e-view enables shareholders to receive shareholder or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a documents electronically.
It also gives shareholders immediate access relationship with the company.
to information relating to their personal shareholding and dividend history.
Participants can also change their details and dividend The Barclays Board annually reviews the independence of its nonmandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
executive Directors, taking into account developing best practice and regulation.
For 2004, the Board has determined that all the nonAll Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be available to executive Directors are independent as defined by the Code, as set answer shareholders questions.
It has been Barclays practice for a out above.
number of years that all resolutions are voted on a poll to ensure that the views of all shareholders are reflected proportionately.
Each of the Barclays has a number of principal Board Committees, which are resolutions considered at the 2004 AGM was decided on a poll and a broadly comparable in purpose and composition to those required by copy of the poll results is available from the Company Secretary or on the NYSE rules for domestic US companies.
Barclays has a Board Corporate Companys website, www.
The resolutions Governance and Nominations Committee, a Board HR and to be considered at the 2005 AGM will also be decided on a poll and the Remuneration rather than Compensation Committee and a Board results will be made available on the Companys website.
Barclays also has a Board Risk Committee.
the resolutions being proposed at the 2005 AGM is set out below: With the exception of the Board Corporate Governance and Ordinary Resolutions Nominations Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman of the To receive the Report and Accounts for the year-ended Board, these committees are comprised solely of non-executive 31st December 2004.
Directors whom the Board has determined to be independent, To approve the Report on Remuneration for the year-ended in the manner described above.
The NYSE rules require that shareholders must be given the To re-elect the following Directors: opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material Sir Andrew Likierman: revisions to those plans.
Barclays complies with UK requirements, Leigh Clifford: which are similar to the NYSE rules.
The Board, however, does not Matthew W Barrett: explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what John Varley: are considered material revisions.
David Arculus: Sir Nigel Rudd.
The NYSE rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the a code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and Company.
Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
NYSE rules, Barclays has business-based conduct and ethics policies, To authorise the creation of a new Performance Share Plan PSP.
which apply to all employees.
In addition, Barclays has adopted a Code To authorise the Directors to establish supplements or appendices of Ethics for the Group Chief Executive and senior financial officers as to the PSP.
required by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
To authorise the Directors to allot securities.
Corporate Responsibility Special Resolutions The Groups approach to managing the interests of its stakeholders is To authorise the Directors to allot securities for cash other than on fully described in the Corporate Responsibility Report, copies of which a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares.
are available from the Company Secretary or at www.
To authorise the Directors to repurchase shares.
Further details about the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility Signed on behalf of the Board may be found on pages 12 and 13.
Relations with Shareholders Barclays has a proactive approach to its institutional and private shareholders, totalling around 842,500.
In the UK, senior executives hold meetings with our key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, Matthew W Barrett Chairman 26
