23 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Corporate governance interviews with the Chairman and a full Bradford & Bingley is committed to high standards discussion at a Board Meeting.
George Cox, the Senior Independent Director, led the of corporate governance in its business.
Non-executive Directors in the evaluation of the Chairman.
The views of the Executive The new Combined Code the Code was recorded in writing and have been agreed by Directors were taken into account and a issued by the Financial Reporting Council and the Board.
separate meeting, at which the Chairman was came into effect for reporting years The Board consists of a Non-executive not present, was held for the purpose.
commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
Chairman, five independent Non-executive Each provision set out in the new Code was Directors and three Executive Directors.
The All Directors are subject to election by reviewed and, where necessary, steps were five independent Non-executive Directors shareholders at the first AGM after their taken to ensure that the Company would be bring wide experience from varied appointment by the Board and each Director is able to comply with the provisions.
The backgrounds to the workings of the Board subject to re-appointment every three years in Directors are pleased to report that throughout and the Board considers that all independent accordance with the Articles of Association.
The the year ended 31 December 2004, the Directors meet the independence criteria set Board has decided that Rod Kent, Nicholas Company complied with the provisions of the out in the Code.
Cosh and Steven Crawshaw will retire by Code except with regard to the membership The recognised Senior Independent Director rotation and seek re-appointment by of the Remuneration Committee.
For practical is George Cox, who took on this role at the shareholders at the AGM in 2005.
Following reasons associated with appointing another beginning of 2004. the evaluation process these re-appointments Non-executive Director to provide fully The purpose of the Board is to govern the were considered by the Nominations independent membership, Rod Kent remained Groups strategic direction, supervise its Committee which recommended to the Board a member of the committee until 31 January operational management and define and that the performance of the three individuals 2004.
He was replaced by Ian Cheshire.
This monitor acceptable risk parameters for the concerned was effective and that their Corporate Governance Report coupled with Group.
The Board has adopted a structure of commitment exemplary.
Further information the Directors Remuneration Report, explains mandates, granted to individuals and about the recommended re-appointments is how the Company has applied the governance committees throughout the Group, whilst included in the Notice of the AGM.
principles set out in the Code.
retaining specified matters for its exclusive An appropriate training programme is decision.
The specified matters include the established for new Directors to ensure that The Board approval of interim and final financial they are fully conversant with their The Directors satisfied the main and supporting statements, the approval of recommendations responsibilities as a Director and with the principles and provisions of the Code by in connection with the payment of dividends, business of the Group.
During 2004, Louise adopting the following procedures and policies: approval of corporate governance Patten, as a new Director, attended induction arrangements, the approval of the Groups meetings, presentations and visits to various The Board met twelve times during the year.
strategic direction and the approval of various sites to enhance her understanding of the This included one meeting devoted entirely policies to be adopted by the Group.
Throughout their period in office all to strategic matters.
In addition, the Chairman mandate structure enables authorised Directors are updated on Group business, the held two meetings with the Non-executive individuals to approve levels of expenditure competitive and regulatory environment in Directors without the Executive Directors and commit to contracts or other which it operates and other changes as they being present.
One meeting of the Nonagreements in the normal course of business.
occur, via presentations at Board or committee executive Directors chaired by the Senior The Board reviews its constitution every year meetings, as appropriate.
Independent Director was also held without and during 2004 the Chairman introduced All Directors have access to the advice and the Chairman present.
and took the lead role in the evaluation of services of the Company Secretary who is The roles of Chairman and Group Chief the performance of the Board, the principal responsible for ensuring that Board Executive are distinct and the offices are held committees and the performance and procedures, and applicable rules and by different people Rod Kent and Steven commitment of each Director.
The process regulations are observed.
The roles of each are included detailed questionnaires, one-to-one Secretary also assists the Chairman in 24 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Corporate governance facilitating the Directors training.
The Directors external reporting responsibilities as well as provided and for a central independent are able to take independent professional monitoring the implementation of the response overview.
This is provided by the Audit advice at the Companys expense.
to new mortgage regulation introduced during Committee which monitors audit and non- 2004.
It met with the external auditors and audit fees paid: and Principal Board committees received all reports by them formerly there is an appropriate approval process for The Directors govern the Group through addressed to the Group.
The committee non-audit work to ensure the auditors Board meetings and a number of committees, reviewed the arrangements for staff to raise independence is not compromised.
each of which has detailed terms of reference.
concerns about possible improprieties in the The three principal Board committees are the area of financial reporting or other issues.
The The members of the committee are Stephen Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committee also undertook corporate Webster Chairman, Ian Cheshire and Committees.
The Audit and the Remuneration governance and other duties as required under Nicholas Cosh.
The Board is satisfied that at Committees comprise only independent Nonthe Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 least one member of the committee has executive Directors.
The terms of reference of and applicable regulations made under it.
As a recent and relevant financial experience.
all these committees are available on request to result of the evaluation of the operation of the the Registered Office and by visiting the the Audit Committee, a number of administrative The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Corporate Governance section within the Our changes were introduced to further improve remuneration policy for the Group, the Business part of the www.
the execution of its responsibilities.
contractual arrangements of the Executive Directors and the Chairmans remuneration.
The Audit Committee monitored the The Committee also considered the position The Committee also reviewed the structure of effectiveness of the Groups risk management of the auditors including any risk of conflict of the share plans operated by the Company and processes and its financial and other internal interest.
The Group recognises the importance the grants of options and awards made under control systems, including effective internal of internal and external auditor independence the schemes established by the Company.
audit, risk management and compliance and has adopted principles to safeguard this, Further detail is provided in the Directors functions.
In particular, the committee received as follows: Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 36.
The regular reports on the key risks to the business members of the committee are George Cox arising from the cost base review and the the Group will continue, where appropriate, to Chairman, Ian Cheshire and Louise Patten.
disposals of the non-core businesses.
The use the external auditor for non-audit work: committee also reviewed the Groups the Group recognises the need for The Nominations Committee reviewed the accounting policies, financial statements and transparency around the services being composition of the Board and recommended Directors for re-appointment at the AGM based on the performance evaluation results.
Board Meeting and committee attendance 2004 Whilst no new external appointments were The table below shows the attendance by Directors at the Board Meetings and at the principal committees considered during 2004, the existing succession of which they were members during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nominations plans were utilised when Christopher Board Committee Committee Committee Rodrigues resigned as Group Chief Executive Rod Kent 11 12 1 1 2 2 in March.
The Board unanimously agreed to Steven Crawshaw 12 12 1 1 appoint Steven Crawshaw as Group Chief Ian Cheshire 10 12 6 6 1 2 Executive based on the succession plans.
The Nicholas Cosh 12 12 4 5 2 2 2 2 members of the committee are Rod Kent George Cox 12 12 4 4 1 1 Chairman, Nicholas Cosh, George Cox, Robert Dickie 12 12 Louise Patten and Steven Crawshaw from Louise Patten 9 12 3 4 1 2 April 2004 to replace Christopher Rodrigues.
Rosemary Thorne 12 12 Stephen Webster 12 12 6 6 Shareholder relations Christopher Rodrigues 3 3 1 1 The Company is committed to on-going, Ian Darby 8 8 transparent communication across the 25 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 shareholder base, whether to institutional Internal control the risk management process, considers the investors, private or employee shareholders.
The The Board is responsible for the Groups Group-wide risk profile regularly and receives Summary Financial Statement, which details key system of internal control and for reviewing its monitoring reports to update it on progress.
facts about the Groups performance, is effectiveness.
The system of internal control is Further information on risk management and distributed to those private shareholders who designed to ensure effective and efficient control is set out on pages 16 and 17. have requested it.
All Annual Reports and AGM operations and compliance with relevant laws documents, announcements, presentations and and regulations.
Such a system can only The Group is committed to developing and press releases are available on our provide reasonable and not absolute assurance maintaining an appropriate risk management www.
The Company engages against material misstatement or loss, as it is culture in all areas.
This is achieved through an in two-way communication with institutional designed to manage rather than eliminate the organisational structure with clear reporting shareholders, fund managers and analysts to risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
lines and governed by appropriate business discuss publicly available information on its monitoring mechanisms, codes of conduct and strategy, performance and policies.
The Board Throughout the year ended 31 December policy statements.
receives feedback on these communications 2004 the Group has operated a system of from the Directors attending the meeting, and is internal control, which includes an ongoing risk The system of internal control has been in also regularly apprised of comments from management process for identifying, evaluating place throughout 2004 and up to the date of institutional shareholders and analysts so that all and managing the significant risks faced by the approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
It Directors can develop a balanced understanding Group.
During the year the Board has accords with the guidance from the Turnbull of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
The continued to review and, where necessary, Committee.
In reviewing the effectiveness of Chairman and Senior Independent Director are update the risk management process and the this system, the Board takes into account the available to meet shareholders on request and policies and procedures by which these work of the Audit Committee, which receives will ensure that the Board is aware of any significant risks are managed.
The Board has reports from the Group Risk Committee on shareholder concerns not resolved through the also performed its annual assessment of the the Groups significant risks and how these are usual investor communications routes.
The effectiveness of internal controls.
The Board also considers Senior Independent Director, together with the reports from internal audit, external audit, Chairman, attended a series of meetings with Changes in financial regulation continue within compliance and management on the system of major shareholders early in 2004 to discuss the the industry, and the Groups risk management internal control, adherence to regulatory introduction of a new incentive plan prior to it processes are designed to operate to ensure requirements and material control weaknesses, being considered at the AGM.
that the Group responds appropriately both together with actions taken to address them.
to actual and proposed regulatory changes.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports At each AGM there is a review of the Groups on the outcome of each meeting to the Board, performance and the Board welcomes the The Groups management operate a risk where appropriate, and the Board also receives opportunity to gather the views and take management process, producing a Group-wide minutes of these Committee meetings.
risk profile that identifies the Groups significant risks, the probability of those risks occurring and Going concern In connection with the AGM, the Company their impact should they occur, and has the The Directors confirm they are satisfied discloses the level of proxy voting including for, prime responsibility for the design and operation that the Company has sufficient resources against and abstentions, separates resolutions of suitable controls and mitigating actions.
The to continue in operation for the foreseeable and has a policy that the committee chairmen risk management process is complemented by a future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt should attend the Meeting.
In addition, the formalised reporting and escalation process for the going concern basis in preparing the Notice of the AGM and any related papers are control issues.
Internal audit has a key role in Financial Statements.
sent out to arrive at least 20 business days maintaining the control environment by before the Meeting to ensure that shareholders providing independent assurance on the have sufficient time in which to consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal control items of business.
The Group Risk Committee oversees
