Caledonia Investments plc 42 Annual report 2004 Corporate governance report The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and this report describes how the company has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code issued in 1998 Combined Code.
The company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
On 23 July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published a revised Combined Code Revised Code, which is applicable to the companys financial year which commenced on 1 April 2004.
Caledonia is not formally required to report on how it has applied the principles of the Revised Code, or complied with its provisions, until the companys 2005 annual report, however, where steps have already been taken to achieve compliance, these are described in this report.
The company is also a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC, which has published its own Code of Corporate Governance.
The provisions of the AITC Code differ in certain respects from those of the Revised Code, which the company regards as its corporate governance benchmark, however the board believes that the company complies with the broad principles set out in the AITC Code, to the extent that they are applicable to a self-managed trust.
The board Overall responsibility and operation The board as a whole is responsible for the groups objectives and policies and the management of its resources.
It has eleven scheduled meetings a year, but also convenes at additional times when required.
The board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which include strategy, material capital and revenue transactions and changes in business activities, treasury policies, risk management and internal policy limits relating to the companys investment activities.
The Schedule of Authorities also sets out the authorities that are delegated to board committees and to executive management.
All directors receive appropriate and timely information to ensure that they are properly briefed in advance of board meetings and have unlimited access to the company secretary and other senior management should further information be required.
Non-executive directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Appointment, induction and training All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek election by shareholders at the next general meeting of the company following their appointment and subsequently all directors are required to retire by rotation at least every three years.
Any nonexecutive director who has served on the board for over nine years is subject to annual re-election.
On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training considered appropriate by the board and subsequently as necessary.
The company secretary provides details of, and where requested arranges attendance at, external courses to assist in directors professional development.
Board composition At the date of this report, the board comprised 11 directors, although Sir David Kinloch will retire from the board at the conclusion of annual general meeting on 14 July 2004.
Excluding the chairman, four of the directors were executive and six non-executive.
The non-executive directors considered by the board to be independent were Messrs C M Allen-Jones, M E T Davies, J R H Loudon and D G F Thompson.
Sir David Kinloch and Major M G Wyatt, who were both previously executive directors, were not considered to be independent.
On 30 June 2004, Mr J R H Loudon will have served on the board for over nine years and as a result will no longer meet the Revised Codes definition of independence.
For this reason, the board will cease to consider him as independent from that date, although the board does not regard his length of tenure, or his genealogical ties with the wider Cayzer family, as in any way affecting his ability to exercise independent judgement in his contribution and commitment to the board and its committees.
Collectively, the directors bring a wide range of experience, skills and expertise to the stewardship of the company, as evidenced by their individual biographies, which appear on pages 28 and 29.
The board is led by the chairman, Mr P N Buckley, whose responsibilities have been agreed and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the board and individual directors are able to operate efficiently by setting the agenda, style and tone of board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making.
He has overall responsibility for monitoring the development needs of the board as a whole and of individual directors and for ensuring that the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors are evaluated at least once a year.
In conjunction with the chief executive, the chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that board members develop an understanding of the views of major investors.
The latter is achieved by providing the board with briefings following meetings with major shareholders and through feedback reports from the companys financial and public relations advisers and brokers following results presentations, road shows and meetings with institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers.
The chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, heads the executive management team and is primarily responsible for the implementation of the boards policies and strategies and for managing the activities of the company other than in relation to those matters specifically reserved to the board or delegated to its committees.
His responsibilities have also been agreed and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
Except where the board gives specific direction otherwise, the chief executive may delegate any of these matters to other members of the executive management team or to executive committees, but ultimately he is accountable to the board for the overall performance of the company.
Caledonia Investments plc 43 Annual report 2004 A strong independent non-executive representation on the board is headed by the senior independent non-executive director, Mr C M Allen-Jones.
The role of the non-executive directors, as set out in their letters of appointment, is to challenge constructively, and contribute to, the development of strategy, to scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor their performance, to satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible, to determine appropriate levels of remuneration for executive directors and to have a prime role in senior management appointments and succession planning.
A division of power and authority at board level is achieved through the balance of executive and non-executive directors described above.
In addition, a Governance Committee, comprising the senior independent non-executive director and two other independent non-executive directors, has been formally established to review corporate governance and conflict of interest issues relating to the company and the board.
The Governance Committee has authority to recommend that any director abstains from participation in any decision of the board or any of its committees where it believes that a conflict of interest could, or could be perceived to, arise.
Through this structure the board safeguards against any individual or small group of individuals being able to dominate the boards decision taking.
Board committees The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the following standing committees, the terms of reference of which are published on the companys website and are available from the company secretary on written request.
The current membership of these committees is noted on page 77.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr P N Buckley, is responsible for the regular review of the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and for giving consideration to succession planning for executive directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying and nominating, using external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the company, both executive and non-executive.
It reviews annually the time required of non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr M E T Davies, is responsible for the review of executive remuneration policy, further details of which are included in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 34 to 41.
Within that policy, the Committee determines the remuneration packages of executive directors and reviews those of other senior executive management.
It is also responsible for the design and grant of awards under the companys share incentive schemes and for the determination of the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and compensation commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, is responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any announcements relating to the companys financial performance and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal financial control and considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee believes that, in the context of the companys business as an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the integrity of the application of the companys policy for the valuation of its investments, particularly those which are unquoted, and the robustness of the groups internal financial controls.
The valuations of the companys unquoted investments are subject to formal six monthly reviews by an internal challenge committee independent of the investment executives and observed by the external auditors, and a formal report on the effectiveness of the groups internal financial control is prepared annually for the board by the group financial controller.
It is the Audit Committees current opinion that, in view of these control processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward control considerations in relation to other investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
On an annual basis, the Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Committee has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including their system of quality controls, and has satisfied itself that there are no issues of concern in relation thereto.
The Committee has also approved a schedule of specific non-audit activities which may not be undertaken by the external auditors, within the broad principles that the external auditors should not audit their own work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that no mutuality of interest should be created between the company and the external auditors.
The Revised Code recommends that at least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee considers that Mr J R H Loudon, who was formerly group finance director of Blue Circle Industries plc, has such financial experience.
The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, keeps under review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to exercise independence of judgement free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his judgement.
Where it concludes that such criteria are not satisfied with regard to any director, it may make such recommendations to the board as it may think fit, including that the director abstains from participating in any decision of the board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
Caledonia Investments plc 44 Annual report 2004 Corporate governance report continued Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held in the year to 31 March 2004 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 2 Number of meetings in the year 11 2522 Attendances by P N Buckley 11 2 J R H Loudon 10 2 5 2 T C W Ingram 11 J H Cartwright 11 The Hon C W Cayzer 11 3 J M May 6 C M Allen-Jones 11 2522 M E T Davies 10 2 5 2 Sir David Kinloch 10 D G F Thompson 11 2 1 2 M G Wyatt 11 1.
Appointed on 1 September 2003 and therefore could have attended a maximum of seven scheduled board meetings.
Board evaluation Since the year end, procedures for the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the board and its committees and of the performance of individual directors have been implemented.
The evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees is led by the chairman and conducted by seeking individual board members responses to a preset list of questions.
The evaluation of the performance of the chairman is led by the senior independent non-executive director and involves discussion with other members of the board of their views on his performance.
The evaluation of the performance of the chief executive is undertaken by the chairman and the nonexecutive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors is reviewed by the chairman, the chief executive and the senior independent non-executive director, with the senior independent non-executive director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal.
The performance of the executive directors, other than the chief executive, is undertaken by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual salary review process.
The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees for the year ended 31 March 2004 were presented in a report to the Nomination Committee and the board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and composition of the board in the light of this report.
Caledonia Investments plc 45 Annual report 2004 Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control, although the review of internal financial controls is delegated to the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
It is recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that the system of internal control operated by the group accords with the guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales the Turnbull Committee guidelines and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these accounts.
Major business risks facing group companies, including social, ethical and environmental issues, are identified in conjunction with operating management and procedures agreed to control these as appropriate.
Risks facing the groups material investments are identified and evaluated through board representation or regular contact.
Key risks identified are regularly monitored at group level by members of the executive management committee, who have clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
From these assessments, an ongoing risk profile of the groups activities is updated half-yearly and reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided quarterly with a list of the key risk issues identified by executive management at that particular time.
All of the companys larger investments are reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually by an executive investment committee.
Specific control procedures are in place to ensure that the company continually monitors and complies with the requirements for investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests for investment trust status and also confirming that the investment activities undertaken by executive management are within the overall policy limits set by the board.
A compliance committee comprising the company secretary chairman, the finance director and three associate directors has been established, which meets weekly to review the companys investment trust status and to monitor and approve all investment activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
The group financial controller also attends such meetings.
Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported monthly to the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the board against an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly review process undertaken by a challenge committee independent of the investment executives and observed by the external auditors.
Since the year end, the directors have conducted their annual review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
Going concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The chief executive and the finance director seek meetings with larger institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers after the announcement of year end and interim results.
The annual general meeting also provides a forum for investors to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
