Corporate governance The following statement sets out the Companys application in the The audit committee carries out a number of duties, including year to 31st December, 2004 of the Revised Combined Code issued review of the interim and annual accounts, and seeks to ensure that in July, 2003.
In the opinion of the board, the Company has complied appropriate accounting and financial policies and procedures are with the principles of that Code in all respects throughout the year implemented, that systems of internal control and external audit are except where stated otherwise.
in place, and that the auditors recommendations are considered and appropriate actions are taken.
Meetings of the audit committee The board are held at least three times a year, and are attended by the external Corporate governance of Candover is achieved through the board auditor.
During 2004, four audit committee meetings were held and which, at the end of the year, comprised eight directors, of whom two these were fully attended with the exception of the December were executive and six were non-executive.
Mr C Russell, a former meeting which Mr Hichens was unable to attend.
director of Gartmore Investment Management and Jardine Fleming Group and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Among the issues considered by the audit committee during 2004 England and Wales, was appointed a director on 12th May, 2004. were audit strategy, compliance with the terms of the Smith Report, Brief biographical details of the directors appear on pages 20 and 21 and the potential impact of International Financial Reporting and the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company Standards on the Group.
The remuneration committee The board meets at least four times a year and there is a formal The remuneration committee, chaired by Mr Grimstone, schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board.
Matters comprises six non-executive directors, the members of which reserved for decision by the board include, inter alia, corporate are shown on pages 20 and 21.
This committee supports the board strategy, approval of the annual budget, approval of the report in determining the level of the remuneration of the Chairman and and accounts and the valuation of the Companys investments.
the other executive director and the senior management and other All meetings during 2004 were attended by all directors.
The full report of the committee is set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
In line with the requirements of the Revised Combined Code, the board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own The remuneration committee met twice during 2004, and these performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
A review was undertaken in December 2004 and the board concluded that its performance, and that of its committees The nominations committee and its directors, was satisfactory.
In December 2004, appraisals In considering non-executive board appointments, the board is of the individual non-executive directors were undertaken by the supported by a nominations committee whose remit is to review Chairman, and an appraisal of the Chairman was undertaken by the structure, size and composition of the board, to satisfy itself that the Senior Independent Director on the basis of feedback received plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the from other directors.
The results of these appraisals were board and to identify appropriate candidates.
for the non-executive director role has been approved by the nominations committee.
The nominations committee will generally Chairman use an appropriate external search consultancy to identify suitable The executive responsibilities of the Chairman, Mr Curran, who is candidates.
All such appointments, together with the appointment of responsible for the strategic direction of the Group, are separated any executive directors, are subject to final approval of the full board from those of Messrs Buffin, Gumienny and Chevrillon, the senior before ratification at a general meeting of shareholders.
management, who are responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the Company.
The nominations committee, which is chaired by Mr Hichens, comprises three directors, the majority of whom are non-executive, A job specification for the role of Chairman has been approved by and the present members of the committee are shown on pages 20 the nominations committee.
During the year, the committee approved the appointment of Mr Russell.
The appointment of Mr Russell, which involved Board committees the use of an external search consultancy, brought to the board The board is supported in its decisions by the following committees: considerable experience gained in the financial services sector and was part of the process of succession planning at board level.
The audit committee The audit committee comprises six non-executive directors and the The nominations committee met once during 2004 and this meeting members of this committee are shown on pages 20 and 21.
The was attended by all members.
board is satisfied that audit committee members have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Russell will become chairman of the audit committee following Mr Wilsons retirement as a director on 10th May, 2005.
Candover Report and accounts 2004 25 Corporate governance continued Board balance Relations with shareholders The board maintained a balance of six non-executive and two Dialogue with institutional shareholders executive directors which it considered appropriate to the The board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional Companys status as an investment trust.
In the view of the board, shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, bearing no non-executive director has any relationships that could materially in mind the duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders and the interfere with their independent judgement.
The non-executive dissemination of price sensitive information.
A number of meetings directors are furthermore considered to be of sufficient calibre with institutional shareholders took place during the year and and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the feedback on these meetings was given to the non-executive directors decision-making process.
It is therefore the boards view that all at subsequent board meetings.
Brokers reports on the Company are non-executives are independent, although three Messrs West, circulated to non-executive directors.
Wilson and Hichens have exceeded the nine year period of service envisaged by the Revised Combined Code as being The Senior Independent Director is available to be contacted by relevant to the determination of a non-executive directors shareholders in situations where contact through the Chairman independence.
is felt to be inappropriate.
In this regard, the board acknowledges the Association of Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Investment Trust Companies guidelines on corporate governance, The board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate which do not recommend that long-serving directors be prevented with private investors and encourages their participation by ensuring from forming part of an independent majority.
that senior board members attend, including the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees Messrs Wilson, During the year, a new non-executive director, Mr C Russell, Grimstone and Hichens respectively, to answer shareholders was appointed.
questions, and adequate notice is given of the meeting.
Mr Hichens was the Senior Independent Director on the board Voting policy until the Annual General Meeting on 12th May, 2004, when As Candovers investee companies are principally unlisted Mr Grimstone became Senior Independent Director and companies in which Candover, together with the third party funds Deputy Chairman.
managed by Candover, is a significant shareholder, Candover would usually be a party to all issues requiring shareholder Supply of information approval and would always vote on such issues.
The Chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at board meetings.
The Candover management It is the Companys policy with regard to all its investments either provides the board with appropriate and timely information in order made by the Company alone or alongside third party funds to that the board may reach proper decisions.
They can, if necessary, vote in a prudent and diligent manner after careful review of obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
each investee companys proxy statement on an individual basis.
Candovers voting decision is based on its reasonable judgement Directors training of what will best serve the financial interests of the Companys During the year, the board reviewed the requirement of the Revised shareholders and third party investors and Candover will not Combined Code to provide suitable training on the appointment of subordinate the economic interests of its shareholders and new directors, and has provided such training during the year where third party investors to any other entity or interested party in it was considered to be appropriate.
In line with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code, a formal Accountability and audit training process for new non-executive directors now exists.
Financial reporting The directors are required to explain their responsibility for the Re-election of directors financial statements and this statement is given on page 28.
The The principle set out in the Revised Combined Code is that all auditors review the Companys compliance with the provisions of directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election the Revised Combined Code and compliance with the rules of at regular intervals and at least every three years, and in any case the Financial Services Authority FSA, the regulatory authority that as soon as practicable after their initial appointment to the board.
regulates Candover Partners Limited and Candover Services Limited, The Revised Combined Code further requires that the non-executive and are also required to report on their audit of the financial directors are appointed for specific terms.
At Candover, both statements and this report is shown on page 34. executive and non-executive directors are re-elected, subject to retirement by rotation, in accordance with the Companys Articles of The board seeks to give a balanced and clear assessment of the Association, with all directors being required to submit themselves Groups position and prospects.
Further information is given in the for re-election at least every three years.
The details of directors Chairmans statement and the operational review.
contracts including non-executive directors letters of appointment are set out in the directors remuneration report on page 33.
26 Candover Report and accounts 2004 The responsibility for identification of other business risks is Going concern delegated to the executive directors and the senior management, Under the Revised Combined Code the directors are required to who would always advise the full board of any material risks.
satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to presume that the Company is a going concern.
Control procedures The main areas of control relate to the investments that Candover makes and the financial controls that After making enquiries, and on the basis of the strength of its enable the board to meet its responsibilities for the integrity and balance sheet, the directors are of the opinion that the Company accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The board is therefore of the opinion that The board delegates responsibility for the effectiveness of such the going concern basis should continue to be adopted in the controls to the executive directors and senior management, who in preparation of the financial statements.
turn ensure the completion of the required procedures.
These key procedures involve: Internal control Under the terms of the Revised Combined Code the board is required Analysis of potential investments leading, where appropriate, to the to review the effectiveness of Candovers internal controls including its preparation of a full investment report: financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The board continues to apply the procedures necessary to comply Regular monitoring of completed investments by executives, who with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal make progress reports to the appropriate board: Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
A comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the board Candovers system of internal control includes, inter alia, the overall at least four, and if appropriate more, times per year giving actual control environment, the procedures for identification and evaluation results compared to budget.
Towards the end of each financial year of business risk, the control procedures themselves and the review detailed budgets for the following year are prepared and are of these internal controls by the audit committee on behalf of the reviewed by the board: and board.
Each of these elements that make up the Companys system of internal control is explained in further detail below: A review of these financial controls is carried out by the audit committee twice a year and by Candovers external auditors to the Control environment Candover is dependent upon the quality and extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
integrity of the Companys management and staff and highly qualified and able staff have been selected at all levels.
The long service Although no system of internal control can provide absolute record of most Candover executives helps to ensure that knowledge assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Companys and experience is retained within the Company and passed on to new system is designed to assist the directors in obtaining reasonable employees, thereby providing continuity and renewal.
New executives assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt are recruited when appropriate in order to aid the Companys with appropriately.
development and growth within the UK and in continental Europe.
Audit committee and auditors Appropriate members of staff are aware of the internal controls The board has delegated authority for reviewing the effectiveness and are also accountable for collectively operating the system of of the Groups internal controls to its audit committee.
committee receives monitoring reports on a six monthly basis from the Company Secretariat with regard to the operational aspects of The management are supported by the board with more than one internal controls over the areas of key risk identified, which include half being made up of non-executive directors who, in conjunction FSA regulatory matters.
The chairman of the audit committee with the Companys auditors, Grant Thornton, and the auditors reports on the review of internal controls and any matters arising of the managed funds, KPMG, carry out an external review of the to the full board at the following board meeting.
Using the above Companys financial controls and also those of the Funds which process, the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls has the Candover Group manages.
KPMG and Grant Thornton carry out been reviewed in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2004. their review only to the extent necessary to give their audit opinions.
As required by the Revised Combined Code, the board has reviewed Identification and evaluation of business risk The key business the need for an internal audit function.
Due to the size of Candover, it risk at Candover remains the identification and evaluation of our does not consider an internal audit function appropriate, although this investments and this is achieved by a comprehensive study of is a matter under continuous review.
However, a number of internal potential investments by executives in co-operation with outside checks are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the resources provided by market research specialists, lawyers and FSA as well as those checks required to be made to enable the accountants.
An investment report is then prepared and, in the case board to report in compliance with the Internal Controls Guidelines, of an investment by one of the managed funds, is sent to the board the efficiency of which is continuously reviewed.
of Candover Partners Limited or an appropriate committee for their decision as to whether or not to proceed: and in the case of other investments, a report is sent to the board of Candover Investments plc or an appropriate sub-committee of the board.
Candover Report and accounts 2004 27 Corporate governance continued The audit committee considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys auditors, Grant Thornton, also provide non-audit services to the Company.
These services relate mainly to tax advice and do not, in the boards opinion, compromise the independence of Grant Thorntons audit team.
During the year, the audit committee adopted a policy on the provision by the auditors of non-audit services.
This policy recognises three categories into which non-audit services may fall, namely work from which the external auditors are excluded, work for which the auditors can be engaged without referral to the audit committee, and work for which a case-by-case decision by the audit committee is necessary.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are required to confirm that suitable accounting policies have been adopted and applied consistently, and have been adequately disclosed, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed with the exception of the departures that are disclosed and explained under the accounting policies set out on pages 35 and 36.
The directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the board A C Peel Company Secretary 23rd March, 2005 28 Candover Report and accounts 2004
