Corporate Governance Background At least eight scheduled board meetings are held each The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies year to deal with the important aspects of the Companys to disclose how they have applied the principles and affairs, including the setting and monitoring of investment complied with the provisions of the Combined Code strategy, approval of borrowings, the review of investment the Code.
performance and the level of the discount or premium to net asset value and the evaluation of the service providers.
Throughout the year under review the Code in force was Additional meetings of the board may be arranged as the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by required.
The number of formal meetings of the board and the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
A revised Combined its committees held during the financial year and the Code on Corporate Governance was issued by the attendance of individual directors are shown below.
All Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Revised directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the AITC Code of Corporate Governance was issued by the Association of Investment Board Audit Nominations Trust Companies in July 2003 the AITC Code.
The Committee Committee Revised Combined Code is effective for financial years No of meetings 8 2 1 beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The board has Simon fide Zoete 8 2 1 adopted all elements of the Revised Code which are Mark Nicholls 8 2 1 relevant to the Company.
Angus Russell 7 2 1 Sir Keith Stuart 8 2 1 Application of the Codes Principles Helen Weir 8 2 1 The board attaches importance to the matters set out in both the Revised Code and the AITC Code and observes the relevant Main and Supporting Principles.
It should be Board Committees noted that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys The board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and day to day responsibilities are delegated to third parties the Nominations Committee.
Terms of Reference for these and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the Committees are available on the Companys website.
The provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the board has not formed a Management Engagement Company.
Committee as it remains the role of the board as a whole to keep under review the terms of the management Board Independence and Composition agreement between the Company and the Investment The board currently consists of five non-executive Manager.
Following the introduction of the Revised Code and the AITC Code the directors have reviewed their Audit Committee independence and confirm that all directors remain wholly Previously the Audit Committee consisted of all directors independent of Henderson Global Investors Limited the but the Committee now consists of Sir Keith Stuart Investment Manager.
No director has links with the Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Helen Weir.
Collectively the Investment Manager, all directors have a wide range of members of the Audit Committee are considered to have other interests and are not dependent in any way on the the necessary recent and relevant financial experience.
On length of tenure the board subscribes The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is to the AITC Code and in the event of a director having responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the more than ten years service the board would explain the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings reasons for considering such a director to be independent.
therefrom, the terms of appointment of the auditors The directors biographies, set out on page 2, demonstrate together with their remuneration as well as any non-audit the breadth of investment, commercial and professional services provided by the auditors, and the interim report.
It experience relevant to their positions as directors.
The meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and board believes that retaining directors with sufficient receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the experience of both the Company and the markets is of accounting records and management information great benefit to shareholders.
maintained on behalf of the Company.
19 Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to The Nominations Committee meets annually and considers the board, each director is invited to submit nominations board succession planning, the review of the performance and these are considered in accordance with the boards of the board as a whole and the board Committees and agreed procedures.
The Nominations Committee considers the appointment of new directors.
All directors are the use of external agencies as and when the requirement members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of to recruit an additional board member becomes necessary.
the board acts as Chairman of the Nominations Committee Reappointment as a director is not automatic and will but would not Chair the Committee when the Chairmans follow a process of evaluation of each directors successor was being considered.
In accordance with the Revised Code any director serving for longer than six years would be subject Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution The Chairman is a non-executive director.
A senior and any director serving for longer than nine years would independent director has not been identified as the be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
board considers that all the directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may Directors Training lead where issues arise.
When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a Performance Evaluation training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
The Company Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key The performance of the Company is considered in detail at information on the Companys policies, regulatory and each board meeting.
statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the board The Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant The Chairman reviews each individual directors training and industry seminars.
contribution on an annual basis and the work of the board as a whole and the board Committees is also reviewed Directors Remuneration annually by the Nominations Committee.
The board meets The board as a whole considers directors remuneration without the Chairman present in order to review the and therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration performance of the Chairman.
As the Company is an investment trust and all directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to Tenure Policy comply with the principles of the Code in respect of the All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 18. and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following Responsibilities their appointment.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Directors will retire at intervals of not more than three Investment Manager also ensures that all directors receive, years to ensure compliance with the Code and the Articles in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory of Association.
Representatives of the Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment Investment Manager attend each board meeting enabling The Nominations Committee considers succession the directors to probe further on matters of concern or planning bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge seek clarification on certain issues.
and experience existing on the board and will recommend A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for when the further recruitment of non-executive directors is decision by the full board has been defined and a required.
The Committee aims to maintain a balance of procedure adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their relevant skills, experience, ages and length of service of duties, to take independent professional advice at the the directors serving on the board.
expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The 20 Corporate Governance continued directors have access to the advice and services of internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
the corporate Company Secretary through its The effectiveness of the internal controls is appointed representative who is responsible to the assessed by the Investment Managers compliance board for ensuring that board procedures are and risk department on a continuing basis.
followed and that applicable rules and regulations Internal Controls are complied with.
The board and Investment The board has established a process for identifying, Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative and evaluating and managing any major risks faced by open environment.
The process is subject to regular Continued Appointment of the Investment review by the board and accords with the Internal Manager Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined The board reviews the performance of the Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull Investment Manager at each board meeting.
The process has been in place since opinion of the directors the continued appointment 2 March 2000 and up to the date of approval of this of the current Investment Manager on the terms annual report.
agreed is in the interests of the Companys The board is responsible overall for the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager system of internal control and for reviewing its has extensive investment management resources effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed and wide experience in managing and administering to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to investment trust companies.
achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Accountability and Audit against material misstatement or loss.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts is set out on page 22, the The board, assisted by the Investment Manager, Independent Auditors Report on page 23 and the undertook a full review of the Companys business Statement of Going Concern on page 17. risks and these have been analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The board The board has delegated contractually to external receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a third parties, including the Investment Manager, the formal report which details the steps taken to monitor management of the investment portfolio, the the areas of risk, including those that are not directly custodial services which include the safeguarding the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and of the assets, the day to day accounting, company which reports the details of any known internal secretarial and administration requirements and control failures.
The board receives each year from registration services.
Each of these contracts was the Investment Manager a report on its internal entered into after full and proper consideration by controls with includes a report from the Investment the board of the quality and cost of the services Managers auditors on the control policies and offered, including the control systems in operation in procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
taken to embed the system of internal control and The board receives and considers regular reports risk management into the operation and culture of the from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and Company and its key suppliers.
information are supplied to the board as required.
In The Company does not have an internal audit addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the function: it delegates to third parties most of its chairmen of the investment trust companies managed operations and does not employ any staff.
The by the Investment Manager: these meetings provide a board will continue to monitor its system of internal forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman control in order to provide assurance that it operates reports on them to the board.
as intended and the directors will review from time The Investment Manager has established an internal to time whether a function equivalent to an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not audit is needed.
absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the 21
