CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance BOC has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out therein as they applied to the company.
In 2003 the Combined Code on Corporate Governance was revised with the new code taking effect for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Although BOC is not required to report on how it has applied the principles of the revised code until 2005, the company has a strict policy of reviewing its corporate governance procedures and has implemented changes as considered appropriate such that at this time BOC is substantially in compliance with the provisions of the new code.
The report below incorporates narrative covering those areas of the new code on which the company can report at this time.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 BOC has securities registered in the US and, as a result, is required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley that apply to foreign private issuers.
Whilst the company already had a robust corporate governance framework in line with best practice under UK standards, the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley were considered and adjustments made to enhance further compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley as far as it applies to BOC.
The board continues to monitor the implementation of the rules to ensure continued compliance.
As recommended by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, BOC has established a disclosure committee.
The committee comprises the Group finance director, Group legal director and representatives from the finance, company secretarial, treasury, investor relations, risk management and human resources functions.
It is responsible for overseeing and advising on the disclosure process for the quarterly results announcements and on the content and form of the annual report and Form 20-F. To permit the signing of the certifications required by Sarbanes-Oxley the committee makes recommendations to the chief executive, Group finance director and executive management board on the adequacy of Group disclosure controls and procedures.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Listing Standards In November 2003, the SEC approved changes to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE related to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
BOC, as a foreign private issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is required to comply with certain of these rules and must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, BOC does not believe that there are any significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed by the company, as compared to those followed by US domestic companies except that the membership of the nomination committee is not composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The membership of the nomination committee is however in line with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which permits membership of this committee to be composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The board There are 13 members of the board namely the chairman, five executive directors and seven non-executive directors who collectively have responsibility for leadership of the company.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and their biographical details are given on pages 8 and 9.
The executive directors are the chief executive, Group finance director and the three chief executives of the lines of business.
The roles of chairman and chief executive have been separate since 1994.
Rob Margetts as chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly the non-executive directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
He monitors, with assistance from the company secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
He meets twice a year with the non-executive directors without the executive management present.
Tony Isaac as chief executive maintains day-to-day executive management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing Group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive has been agreed with the board as a whole.
During the year Rob Margetts has ceased to be governor of Imperial College, London and has also ceased to be chairman of the Government Industry Forum for the Non-Food Uses of Crops.
He has recently become a member of the International Advisory Board of Teijin Ltd, a time commitment of approximately six days a year.
He remains chairman of Legal & General Group plc and is also a non-executive director of Anglo American plc.
During 2004, as part of a comprehensive board evaluation, the non-executive directors undertook a thorough review of the chairmans performance and considered this against the background of his other commitments.
In their view the chairman has performed extremely well against all the measured criteria.
He has consistently demonstrated full commitment to his responsibilities at BOC and he has always made himself available when circumstances require additional time commitment.
Rob Margetts appointment as chairman anticipates approximately one and a half days a week activities at BOC and the board is satisfied that he has both the personal commitment and available time to fulfil his responsibilities as chairman of the company.
Furthermore, the board is of the view that Rob Margetts expertise and the continuity that he brings to the post of chairman is of great benefit to BOC.
56 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance The senior independent director is Sir Christopher ODonnell.
He has responsibility for chairing meetings of the non-executive directors at which the chairmans performance is appraised.
He is also available to shareholders should they have any concerns which contact through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
During the year Fabiola Arredondo and Roberto Mendoza resigned as non-executive directors on 28 February 2004 and 12 May 2004 respectively.
Guy Dawson was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 March 2004, with both Anne Quinn and Iain Napier appointed non-executive directors on 1 May 2004.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term after which, whilst not automatic, their appointment may be extended for a second term subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive directors play in ensuring high governance standards.
BOC has for many years had a significant presence of high calibre non-executive directors bringing a wide range of experience and expertise to the BOC board.
The board has determined that all the non-executive directors are independent in accordance with the definition of that term pursuant to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the New York Stock Exchange listing standards, including Matthew Miau who is also a non-executive director of BOC Lienhwa Industrial Gases Company Limited, a BOC joint venture in Taiwan.
He is a representative of BOCs joint venture partner, Lien Hwa Industrial Corporation.
Matthew Miau is the chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, a major electronics organisation with a turnover greater than that of BOC, and he brings considerable expertise in the electronics and semiconductor markets and an Asian business perspective to the board of BOC.
The turnover of the joint venture attributable to BOC represents approximately one per cent of the Groups total turnover.
The board do not consider this association or the time period with which he has been connected with the company to be of sufficient significance to BOC or Matthew Miau to compromise his independence.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
In particular the boards main focus is on strategic and policy issues and reviewing objectives and performance.
The board also has responsibility for the review and monitoring of key company policies in such areas as risk management, treasury matters and corporate social responsibility including safety, environment and the Code of Conduct.
On an annual basis the board reviews the senior managers and their succession and development plans.
The board has to approve all Group commitments in excess of 25 million.
Presentations are made to the board on major projects and periodic reviews are given by management from each of the lines of business.
The board delegates certain functions to committees.
There are six board committees, details of which are given below.
The board meets six times a year, with two meetings held at major operating subsidiaries.
One of the meetings is a combined board and strategy meeting lasting over a period of two days.
The meetings held at operating sites provide the opportunity for the board to meet with the local management teams and presentations about the local business operations are made to the board.
During 2004 the board visited the companys operations in Shanghai and also the UK headquarters of Gist.
The attendance of directors at board and principal board committee meetings during the year are detailed in the chart below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee six meetings four meetings six meetings six meetings Rob Margetts 6 n a 6 n a Tony Isaac 6 n a 6 n a 1 Fabiola Arredondo 3 133 Julie Baddeley 6 4 6 6 John Bevan 6 n a n a n a Andrew Bonfield 6 4 6 6 2 Guy Dawson 3 233 Ren Mdori 6 n a n a n a 3 Roberto Mendoza 4 333 Matthew Miau 5 2 5 4 4 Iain Napier 1 111 Sir Christopher ODonnell 5 4 5 5 4 Anne Quinn 2 222 Raj Rajagopal 6 n a n a n a John Walsh 6 n a n a n a 1. resigned on 28 February 2004.
Throughout 2004 the company has continued to maintain directors and officers liability insurance.
There is a well established procedure enabling any director, in the furtherance of his or her duties as a BOC director, to seek independent professional advice at the companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
The company secretary has responsibility for ensuring that the correct board procedures are followed and advises the board on all corporate governance matters.
In addition the company secretary ensures that information and documentation required by the board, in particular meeting papers, are provided to the board promptly with sufficient time to enable them to prepare fully for any meeting.
57 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance Induction and professional development Upon joining the board, new directors are required to undertake a full induction comprising site visits, meetings with the lines of business chief executives, each member of the executive management board and also key external advisers.
This is supplemented by a reference binder, which is regularly updated, including information about the board, the committees, directors duties, procedures for dealing in the companys shares and other regulatory and governance matters.
Appropriate training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience and any training requirements that may be identified during the annual performance review process.
The company secretary monitors the availability and suitability of external courses, details of which are circulated to the board.
During the year certain of the nonexecutive directors have attended seminars relating to their areas of responsibility.
The board receives regular briefings on governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group and its market sector activity and also on litigation relating to the Group.
The non-executive directors have full access to management and both internal and external auditors, and are encouraged to stay fully abreast of the Groups business aided by site visits and meetings with senior management.
Performance evaluation BOC commenced formal review of the board, the principal board committees and the individual directors in 2002 using an internal process conducted by the chairman.
In 2003 a more comprehensive review was undertaken using an external facilitator.
When the results of the 2003 review were considered by the board it was decided that the process would alternate each year between internal and external reviews.
Therefore, during 2004 the chairman conducted an internal review comprising a questionnaire covering, inter alia, the role and organisation of the board, meeting arrangements, information provision and committee effectiveness.
Following completion of the questionnaires the chairman met with each director to discuss their views and to give feedback on individual performance.
The results of the evaluation were reported to the board and where areas for improvement have been identified, actions have been agreed.
Sir Christopher ODonnell, as the senior independent director, led a meeting of the non-executive directors to appraise the performance of the chairman.
Board committees There are six board committees to which the board delegates specific areas of responsibility as described below.
The terms of reference of each of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are available on the companys website www.
com or upon request to the company secretary.
Audit committee Members: Julie Baddeley, Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson, Matthew Miau, Iain Napier, Sir Christopher ODonnell chairman and Anne Quinn.
The audit committee meets four times a year, the agendas being organised around the companys financial reporting cycle.
Members attendance at meetings is detailed on page 57 and their qualifications are on pages 8 and 9.
Time is set aside at one of these meetings for the committee to meet with the internal and the external auditors separately without the executive management present.
The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the committee and the quarterly financial statements prior to their release, as well as the arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns.
The committee also ensures that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors is maintained and reviews the policies and procedures in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of the audit.
The work undertaken by the committee during 2004 is described in more detail in its report below.
Andrew Bonfield is considered by the board to be the audit committee financial expert.
He is a nonexecutive director and is considered to be independent in accordance with the definition of that term pursuant to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
All other members of the committee are financially literate.
Audit committee report In 2004 the audit committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference and the specific matters reviewed by the committee included: a interim and full year financial results and announcement statements: b interim and full year report from the internal audit function of progress against the 2004 audit plan and effectiveness of internal controls: c the Group's project to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
This review included the project plan, progress against the plan and matters arising in the implementation of the plan: d details of the Group's project to transition to International Financial Reporting Standards from 2006: e the external audit plan for 2004 performed by the Group's auditors,  LLP PwC.
This review included the audit objectives, auditor independence and objectivity policies managed by PwC, partner rotation, audit scope, team, timetable deliverables and fee proposal: 58 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance f the annual report disclosure items relevant to the audit committee.
Included in this review were the Group's critical accounting policies, the going concern statement, the report on risk and internal controls and the risk factors statement.
The audit committee also reviewed the disclosure control review procedures employed by the Group which enabled the chief executive and Group finance director to sign the Section 302 and 906 certificates pursuant to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act: g the external auditor report for 2004: h the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of non-audit fees.
The audit committee has reviewed and approved a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
This policy has been in place since 2002 and defines services which can be provided by the auditor.
The policy also specifies which services cannot be provided.
The policy requires all non-audit services to be approved in advance by the audit committee, which has delegated this task to the chairman of the audit committee.
The approval process requires full disclosure of the objectives and scope of the services to be performed and fee structure.
The audit committee reviews all approved services at subsequent meetings.
The auditor is permitted to perform non-audit services only if the scope of work is within the terms of the policy and there is a business benefit to the Group in these services being performed by the external auditors rather than an alternative supplier.
The level of the fee spend is closely monitored to ensure independence and objectivity of the audit is maintained.
Further details of actual fees paid to external auditors are given in note 2c on page 90: i the procedures by which staff can report, in confidence, any matters of a financial or non-financial nature alleging breaches of the Groups Code of Conduct.
The audit committee also reviewed the procedures by which allegations are reported to senior management and the audit committee.
During this period the audit committee met with the Groups external auditors without the presence of management.
The audit committee also met with the Groups head of internal audit without the presence of management.
The head of internal audit has access to the chairman of the audit committee, if necessary, outside of meetings.
Regular attendees to audit committee meetings, at the invitation of the chairman of the committee, include: the chairman, chief executive, Group finance director, director of risk management, head of business assurance audit, director financial planning and control, and the external auditors.
The audit committee concludes that, based on the foregoing, it has discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference and is satisfied that auditor independence and objectivity have been maintained.
Nomination committee Members: Julie Baddeley, Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts chairman, Matthew Miau, Iain Napier, Sir Christopher ODonnell and Anne Quinn.
The nomination committee meets periodically as required but at least annually.
During 2004 the committee met six times.
Members attendance at meetings is detailed on page 57.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
The committee also keeps under review the board committee structure and composition and makes recommendations to the board of any changes considered necessary.
Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being considered or during discussion regarding his performance.
On an annual basis the committee carries out a review of the succession plans for the executive directors and the executive management board, the reappointment of non-executive directors upon expiry of their term of office and the proposals for re-election of directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years in accordance with the companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
During these deliberations consideration is given to the results of the annual board evaluation.
The evaluation process is explained in more detail above.
During the year three new non-executive directors were appointed to the board.
When considering the appointment of new directors the committee reviews the current balance of skills and experience on the board.
A detailed specification is drawn up to include any specific knowledge or expertise that is considered of future benefit to the board and having regard to the business throughout the Group and the overall business strategy.
External search agents are then used to identify suitable candidates who are short listed and then evaluated by the committee before it submits its recommendation to the board as a whole.
Remuneration committee Members: Julie Baddeley chairman, Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson, Matthew Miau, Iain Napier, Sir Christopher ODonnell and Anne Quinn.
The remuneration committee meets six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the policy on executive directors remuneration and the specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment of each executive director.
The committees full report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 64 to 75.
Pensions committee Members: Julie Baddeley chairman, Guy Dawson, Rob Margetts, Tony Isaac and Ren Mdori Secretary: Stephen Pegg, Corporate pensions director.
The pensions committee meets twice a year and oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying to all employee retirement benefit plans, and reviews and makes recommendations on the investment policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement benefit plans.
59 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance Executive management board The members of the executive management board are detailed on pages 10 and 11 and are considered as the officers of the company.
The executive management board is chaired by Tony Isaac.
All members held office throughout the year ended 30 September 2004 except that Greg Sedgwick resigned on 31 December 2003 and Mark Nichols became a member of the executive management board on 1 January 2004.
There have been no further changes up to the date of this report.
The executive management board meets regularly having primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations and policy implementation pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed by the board.
Investment committee Members: John Bevan, Tony Isaac chairman, Ren Mdori, Mark Nichols, Raj Rajagopal, John Walsh and representatives from the finance function.
The investment committee meets regularly and reviews and approves Group commitments up to 25 million as delegated by the board.
Group commitments over 25 million are presented to the board for approval on recommendation from the committee.
Accountability and audit Statements of the respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors for these accounts are set out on pages 76 and 77.
Risk management and internal controls This statement of compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in respect of risk management and internal controls is in line with the arrangements set out by the UK Listing Authority.
The board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of risk management and internal controls.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board ensures that the directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Risk management in BOC The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business risk.
The objective of risk management within BOC is to improve performance and decision making through identification, assessment and mitigation of key risks.
A dedicated central team of risk management specialists is responsible for delivering the risk management programme.
During 2004 approximately100 risk workshops or reviews have been conducted covering a broad range of matters.
These include risks in strategy, risks in meeting business unit targets, risks in acquisitions or ventures and risks in major projects.
The risk management process operates on a global basis and covers the Groups key risks, lines of business, business units and corporate functions.
The output from each risk assessment is a set of prioritised risks with associated action plans.
Line management retains responsibility for completion of action plans.
Progress of action plans is monitored and reported.
A report on the risk management process is provided to the board twice a year.
These reports include reviews of key strategic risks to the Group as well as the individual lines of business and identifies the status of action plans against key risks.
Internal controls in BOC The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment and implementation of a system of internal controls appropriate to the various business environments in which it operates.
The Group operates under a system of controls that has been developed and refined over time to meet its current and future needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls, which are communicated through various operating and procedural manuals and processes, include but are not limited to: the definition of the organisational structure and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management: procedures for the review and authorisation of capital investments through the investment committee including post-acquisition reviews and appraisals: strategic planning and the related annual planning process including the ongoing review by the board of the Groups strategies: the establishment of individual business unit annual performance targets and the quarterly business review of actual performance: the monthly financial reporting and review of financial results and other operating statistics such as the health and safety reports as well as the Groups published quarterly financial statements, which are based on a standardised reporting process: accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups accounting records: specific treasury policies and objectives and the ongoing reporting and review of all significant transactions and financing operations.
60 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance The internal control system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results on the Groups operations to management and the audit committee.
The work of the internal auditors is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined on the basis of a risk management approach to audit.
There have been regular reviews by the audit committee of the board of the effectiveness of the Groups overall internal control processes throughout the year.
During 2004 the Group has developed and progressed its plan to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act which is a requirement for BOC with effect from 2005.
The internal audit function has played an important role in developing and implementing the plan to identify, document and test key controls over financial reporting.
The directors therefore believe that the Groups system of risk management and internal controls provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this report and accounts which could render them ineffective.
There were no changes in the Groups internal controls over financial reporting that occurred in the year ended 30 September 2004 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Disclosure controls and procedures The chief executive officer and Group finance director, based on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this annual report and accounts, have concluded that, as of such date, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Going concern The directors report on going concern is included in the financial review on page 55.
Communications with shareholders The board considers communications with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
A variety of communication mechanisms are used by the company.
Financial results are published quarterly, and half year and annual reviews are sent to all shareholders.
Copies of the full annual report are available by election or on request.
com provides financial and other business information about The BOC Group.
It contains an archive of past announcements and annual reports, share price information and a calendar of events as well as BOCs social responsibility polices, including the companys Code of Conduct.
There are also facilities in place to enable shareholders to receive communications from the company in electronic form rather than by mail and for shareholders to provide their proxy votes for the Annual General Meeting by electronic means.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question directors about the companys activities and prospects.
The chairmen of each of the principal board committees are normally present.
During the year responses are given to letters received from shareholders on a variety of subjects.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers and summaries of these discussions and meetings are provided to the board.
Periodically the board receives presentations from external advisers on investor perceptions.
In addition the board receives copies of most analysts and brokers reports issued on the company.
These summaries and reports enable the directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the company.
61 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on Friday 14 January 2005 commencing at 11.00 am.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which includes explanations of all resolutions, is contained in a separate circular which is being sent to all shareholders more than 20 working days before the meeting.
Resolutions will seek approval to the following: a receipt of the report and accounts: b the dividend policy: c reappointment of Guy Dawson, Anne Quinn, Iain Napier, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts and Raj Rajagopal as directors: d reappointment of  LLP as auditors and granting authority to the directors to fix their remuneration: e approval of the directors remuneration report: f the introduction of a new all employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme: g the establishment of a Share Matching Plan: h an amendment to The BOC Group Long-Term Incentive Plan: i renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares: j renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: and k granting of general authority for the company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of ten per cent of issued share capital.
No purchases were made following last years authority.
Corporate social investment BOC is committed to being a positive contributor to the communities in which it operates.
This includes: operating safely and environmentally: enhancing the wellbeing of local economies by providing employment on the bases of equal opportunities and merit: and playing a part in supporting community activities.
BOCs social investment programme has five key themes: a to focus on projects to improve environmental stewardship: b to support educational programmes in selected areas: c to devolve the choices of charitable donations to the businesses and employees through matched giving and local volunteering and donations schemes: d to encourage the organisations involvement in selected social programmes in local communities around the world: and e to develop further BOCs global diversity programmes.
Investing in education BOCs Inspiring Gases education programme made significant progress with the development of a series of educational aids and implementation of a UK-wide network of BOC employee science ambassadors, who offer schools and colleges presentations on the uses of industrial gases.
There is also an Inspiring Gases website at www.
Several BOC businesses initiated or strengthened their educational contributions.
In southern Africa, BOC companies supported education and training with external and employee bursaries, grants, in-house vocational courses and incidental donations as well as continued support for a welding school and the Afrox Healthcare College of Learning.
In Thailand, the business supported several educational establishments with equipment and bursaries for employee dependants.
Where appropriate, BOC continues to play an active part in local communities by harnessing its educational capabilities through school tours, lessons in the properties of gases, technical support and academic research.
It also funds programmes and events such as the BOC Gases Challenge, which encourages UK secondary school students to develop chemical engineering ideas, sponsorship of the UKs Council for Industry and Higher Education, the annual Institute of Chemical Engineers environment award, and the Salters Festivals of Chemistry for the propagation of science amongst the young.
The Salters festivals involved 500 schools and took place at universities across the UK and Ireland.
Supporting the environment The Groups environmental flagship remains the UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, which was established with an initial injection of 1 million in 1990.
The Foundation has supported over 130 projects.
This year, the Group contributed 310,000 to the Foundation and saw eight new initiatives come on stream.
Since the Foundations inception BOC has donated 3.9 million.
Combined funding from BOC and its co-sponsoring partners now exceeds 12 million.
The Foundation concentrates on projects that improve air and water quality.
BOC made a number of other positive contributions to other environmental projects including the BOC New Zealand community environmental grants programme and a scheme, Where Theres Water, which provides funding to help communities maintain, protect and improve their water resources.
62 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance Charitable donations and community involvement BOC operates a wide-ranging programme of sponsorships and charitable donations, directing resources at areas where the organisation feels it can make a difference or where employees have a direct involvement.
In 2004, BOC made charitable donations totalling 840,000 including 288,000 to UK-registered charities through direct donations from the Group and matched giving.
As in previous years, no political donations were made in the European Union.
BOC employees have continued to involve themselves in charitable fundraising and voluntary support.
Matched giving schemes have been operating in the UK, the Americas and the south Pacific for some time.
For example, BOC has funded a matched giving scheme in the UK since 1987, doubling the money donated by employees to registered charities.
To make it easier to give to charity a new internal website enables UK employees to access the necessary matched giving information and forms.
The schemes again proved their worth as a way of aligning corporate funding with the personal generosity of BOC employees.
In the course of 2004, BOC in the UK donated 160,000 included in the UK total above through the Charities Aid Foundation to match employee beneficence.
In addition to the numerous causes supported through matched giving, BOC also supported a number of Group causes, including the Multiple Sclerosis Society, Royal British Legion, St Johns Ambulance and Macmillan Cancer Relief.
BOC ran the third year of its BOC Emerging Artist Award to encourage and support a committed UK-based artist for a year.
The 2004 award, worth 20,000, was won by Mauro Bonacina, a graduate of Goldsmiths College, University of London.
Six other artists were also awarded 1,000 each as runners-up.
Outside the UK, local BOC businesses develop their own community programmes, each business being responsible for its own project selection and funding within broad guidelines set by the organisation.
This devolved approach has resulted in the funding of a rich variety of programmes that are truly relevant to the communities in which BOC companies operate.
In the US, through a combination of financial support and many hours of volunteer involvement, BOC and its employees continued to assist the United Way charitable appeal, helping to make a difference in many deprived sectors of the community.
BOC in the US also pursued a number of other projects including support for local arts and educational causes.
In the south Pacific, the business matches employee fundraising for charities selected by staff.
In New Zealand, for example, employees selected a range of charitable causes to support.
In Australia, employees chose to fundraise for cancer research, education and patient support.
BOC in Australia continues a long-established relationship with the Malcolm Sargent Cancer Fund for Children.
BOC employees support this cause with financial contributions and employee volunteering and fundraising activities.
In South Africa, BOCs subsidiary Afrox and its staff continued to support the companys community involvement process CIP, which included the management of 122 projects to improve the lives of disadvantaged young people.
Once more, the highlight of the year was Bumbanani meaning lets build together Day when 15,600 children attended events hosted by BOC staff.
In addition, Afrox hospitals engage in a wide range of health care and safety initiatives, including selected sponsorship, supporting people in their recuperation and rehabilitation after surgery and treatment.
Some Afrox hospitals have a special outreach service in the form of rape crisis centres and AIDS HIV clinics.
Medical examinations are conducted in a non-threatening environment with the emphasis placed on maintaining the dignity of the victim.
Preventive medication and antiretroviral drugs are given against sexually transmitted diseases.
BOC and its employees have been active in many other markets.
BOC in Pakistan continued to provide support to community organisations dealing with poverty alleviation, education and health care.
Support continued for: the Layton Rehmatulla Benevolent Trust, an organisation dedicated to providing free eye care: the Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre: the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital, the first institution in Pakistan dedicated to cancer treatment: and the Aga Khan Medical Hospital and Foundation.
BOC was one of the founding contributors to the Aga Khan Foundation which runs a world class university hospital affiliated to the Harvard Medical School.
BOC in China continued a support programme to facilitate screened blood donations to local hospitals.
In Thailand, BOC sponsored a sports programme helping to discourage drug use.
In Malaysia, BOC supported the National Cancer Society, culminating in a sponsored balloon race to raise awareness in the country.
The event in Kuala Lumpur was officiated by Her Royal Highness the Queen of Malaysia.
In Chile, BOC supported the Catholic University of Chile with sponsorship of its engineering school and departments of mining investigations, environmental management and teaching through the Internet.
In Venezuela, BOC donated funds and helium balloons to schools and orphanages and breathing oxygen to local fire stations.
In Curaao, the organisation channels support through the local Rotary Club and contributed to various youth education and care for the elderly projects.
In India, BOC made a number of contributions across a range of poverty alleviation and community welfare initiatives.
The report of the directors has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Nick Deeming Company Secretary 22 November 2004 63 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
