80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 9 Directors Report The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited On 1 December 2004 Bodycote Thermal Processing Inc. acquired the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. entire issued share capital of Bird Electron Beam Corporation of Sufeld Connecticut.
Bird operates a NADCAP approved electron beam welding PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES facility for aerospace, medical and industrial gas turbine customers in The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on the Eastern United States.
business in the elds of materials technology and metal processing.
The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings are On 2 December 2004 Bodycote Materials Testing Group Limited purchased set out on pages 48 to 50.
The Chief Executives Review contains a the entire issued share capital of Clyde Analytical Limited of Greenock, survey of the Groups activities during the year together with an outline Scotland.
Clyde offers environmental testing services to industry.
The Group also made the following disposals: TRADING RESULTS On March 9, 2004 the Group announced a programme to dispose of its The profit of the Group before taxation was 24.5m 2003: 11.1m loss, wet coatings businesses.
As a result the Group disposed of or closed after exceptional charges of 11.2m 2003: 34.0m.
profit attributable its wet coatings facilities at Anderstorp, Solna, Gothenburg, Linkoping to shareholders amounted to 18.7m 2003: 17.4m loss and, after Sweden, Vaasa and Alajarvi Finland, St Dizier, Auterive, Pau, France, providing for dividends of 19.6m 2003: 15.6m the sum of 0.9m and Rochdale, Darlington, Poole, and Liverpool in the United Kingdom.
2003: 33.0m has been set off against reserves.
As from 1 November 2004 the Group disposed of its physical vapour DIVIDENDS deposition facilities in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, France, Italy, The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.85p per share making Mexico and the United States to SSCP Coating S.. r. l. the private equity a total for the year of 6.1p per share 2003: 5.7p as adjusted.
The final owners of IonBond S.. r. l. of Luxembourg.
At the same time Bodycote dividend, if approved, will be paid on 6 July 2005 to shareholders on the International plc secured a 15% shareholding in SSCP Coating S.. r. l. register at the close of business on 10 June 2005.
The 2003 dividend has been adjusted to take into account the bonus element of the 1 for 4 Note 23 on page 39 provides the necessary financial disclosures.
rights issue completed on 31 March 2004.
DIRECTORS SHARE CAPITAL The current Directors are listed on page 18 and all served throughout The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2004 was the year.
Messrs J. D. Hubbard and J. Vogelsang are retiring by rotation 32.1m and during the year was increased by the issue of and, in accordance with the articles of association and each being eligible, a 64,157,581 shares of 10p each issued for a total consideration offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General of 64.2m pursuant to the 1 for 4 rights issue completed on Meeting.
The service agreements for Mr Hubbard are terminable by 31 March 2004, and one years notice.
Mr Vogelsang does not have a service contract with the Company and his appointment is terminable by six months notice.
b 180,859 shares of 10p each between 8 November and 2 December 2004 for a total consideration of 179,654 pursuant to options DIRECTORS INTERESTS granted under the Companys executive share option schemes.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2003 are set out below: The shareholders have authorised the Company to purchase up to 32,078,790 of its own shares, although no purchases have been made.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual beneficial 2004 2003 General Meeting to be held on 25 May 2005, at which time a further authority will be sought from shareholders.
A. S. Wallace 57,287 45,830 J. D. Hubbard 949,103 900,000 ACQUISITIONS and DISPOSALS D. R. Sleight 87,500 70,000 During 2004 the Group made four acquisitions at a net cost of 4.7m: R. T. Scholes 18,750 15,000 On 31 May 2004 Bodycote Vrmebehandling A S acquired the entire D. F. Landless 6,875 5,500 issued share capital of Haustrups Haerderiet A S based at Ejby in Denmark.
J. Vogelsang This acquisition enabled Bodycote to strengthen and broaden its provision L. P. Bermejo of heat treatment services in Western Denmark and Northern Germany.
On 1 August 2004 Bodycote Materials Testing Canada, Inc acquired the Each Executive Director was also technically interested as a potential entire issued share capital of Hoogensen Metallurgical Engineering beneciary, pursuant to the terms of the Bodycote International Limited.
Hoogensen provides engineering, metallurgical and chemical Employee benefit Trust, in 421,823 shares 2003: 400,000 held as testing and consulting services to the oil and gas sector in Calgary trustee by Hill Samuel Offshore Trust Company Limited.
No Director and Edmonton, Alberta.
has had any dealings in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2004.
An analysis of Directors share options is given in the Board Report on Remuneration on page 16.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Bodycote annual report 2004 9 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 10 Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE iii Committee Membership code provision B.
2.1 C. 3.1 The Groups mission is: On 22 November 2004 following a recommendation of the To provide world class companies with metallurgical and testing Nomination Committee the company announced changes in the services that make a positive contribution to the success of membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
date the position of the Company Chairman on those committees was at variance with the 2003 Code.
To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest.
To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with enthusiasm and inspire them to excel.
the provisions of the 2003 Code throughout 2004.
To act as a good corporate citizen.
Operation of the 2003 Code Taken together with the Audit Committee Report and the Board Report The Groups aim in terms of corporate governance is, therefore, on Remuneration presented on pages 13 to 17, this statement explains to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance Compliance with 2003 FRC Combined Code set out in the 2003 Code.
The Bodycote Board has overseen substantial changes in its board and Leadership committee membership in the last four years.
All these changes are The Board of Directors comprises seven members, of whom three appropriate to the Company, in accordance with the principles of good are independent Non-Executive Directors and three are Executive corporate governance, and comply with the provisions of The Combined Directors led by the Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Mr J.
A. S. Wallace, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
Council in July 2003 the 2003 Code, save in three areas where the The Chief Executive is Mr J. D. Hubbard and the Senior Independent reasons for the variance are: Non-Executive Director is Mr R. T. Scholes, who also chairs the Audit i Performance evaluation code provision A.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr J. Vogelsang.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on page 18.
The Board The Board believes a rolling programme of assessments is the meets at least nine times a year and visits are made to UK and overseas most practical and effective method of evaluating Bodycotes facilities.
Certain dened issues are reserved for the Board to decide, control structures.
Informal evaluation of Bodycotes actions, inter alia: control structures and personnel also takes place regularly as part of a continuous momentum for improvement.
During 2004 Approval of financial statements & circulars all Executive Directors, the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals Nomination Committees and Messrs Vogelsang and Bermejo all Annual budgets underwent formal internal assessment with the assistance, in the case of the Audit Committee, of the auditors.
In 2005 there will be Strategy an evaluation of the Board and the Audit Committee as well as the Directors appointments, service agreements & remuneration annual appraisal of the Executive Directors.
Bodycote aims to carry Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and out and report on assessments of all relevant personnel, committees environment, donations and the Board itself within a three-year cycle notwithstanding that Committees terms of reference the 2003 Code lays down a greater frequency.
Board and committee membership ii Investor Relations code provision D. 1.1 Investments Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the Equity & bank nancing Chief Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships Internal control & risk management with institutional investors.
The Chairman is available to meet and has met institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, Corporate governance governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
Key external & internal appointments Only where these more usual channels of communication have Pensions & employee incentives failed would the Company expect the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Directors to become involved notwithstanding that In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date the 2003 Code species attendance of the Senior Independent information about the trading performance of each operating location, Non-Executive Director at meetings with major shareholders.
the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior Regular feedback by the Companys advisers on investor meetings year budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest and results presentations are circulated to all Directors.
available information on safety, health and risk management issues.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend one of the Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice results presentations each year.
On specic issues the Chairman at the expense of the Company, all Directors have access to the will seek the views of Bodycotes leading investors.
Company Secretary and they may also address specic issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
10 Bodycote annual report 2004 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 11 Directors Report In accordance with the articles of association all newly appointed The Board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this report previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors for re-election.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, on the Combined Code published in September 1999. are appointed for xed terms not exceeding three years, after which The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 19.
The Board also reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider operates three committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists Independence of Non-Executive Directors the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
During 2004, The Board considers that Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang and in compliance with provision C. 2.1, the Board also performed a specic L. P. Bermejo are all independent for the purposes of the 2003 Code.
assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
Commitment The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control Save for one meeting absence recorded by Mr L. P. Bermejo all Directors arising during the period covered by the report including the work of recorded 100% attendance at the ten Board meetings held in the year, Internal Audit.
In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Groups including visits to facilities in The Czech Republic and the UK.
100% Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal control attendance was recorded for all meetings of the Audit, Remuneration procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and made and Nomination Committees.
an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control, in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly to Performance Evaluation them.
Such risks were measured against their own stated objectives.
Performance evaluation of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Following the risk management review by each participant at Strategic Non-Executive Director was carried out internally during 2003. Business Unit level, a Group level review was prepared for the Directors All Executive Directors were appraised internally during 2004 and a to assess.
No significant previously unidentified risks were uncovered performance evaluation of the Chief Executive took place in February as part of this process.
In February 2004 the Board carried out its own evaluation of the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committees Prospects reviewed their own performance in November 2004.
The Audit The Boards view on the Groups position and prospects is given by the Committee assessed its own performance in December 2004 with input Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in their respective from the external auditors, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
statements on pages 2 to 8 of this report.
Following a review of the The Chairman assessed the performance of Messrs J. Vogelsang and Groups results for 2004 and its budgets for 2005, the Directors consider L. P. Bermejo in December 2004. that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to finance their activities for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate Nomination Committee to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A. S. Wallace chairs the Nomination Committee which also comprises Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang, L. P. Bermejo and Investor relations J. D. Hubbard.
All members attended both 2004 committee meetings, The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet when it determined the policy on external appointments, proposed institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has the nominations for re-election at the 2004 and 2005 Annual General enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Meetings, agreed the reappointment of the Chairman, discussed Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting now general succession planning and carried out a self-assessment.
comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have Proposals for Re-election been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price Following the performance evaluation carried out by the Chairman in via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the website December 2004 in respect of Mr Vogelsangs service as Independent can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties them of Non-Executive Director, the Board proposes his re-election as Director.
results announcements and recent significant Group events.
His performance was determined to be effective and he has devoted the necessary time and commitment achieving 100% Board and Committee significant enhancements for the benefit of shareholders took place meeting attendance since appointment in 2003.
Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and appraisal by the Chairman in February 2005, the Board also proposes financial public relations consultants provide Directors with opinion the re-election of Mr J. D. Hubbard as a Director.
surveys from analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Non-Executive Internal Control Directors are themselves invited to attend analysts presentations at the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and time of the regular results announcements.
As stated on page 10 the for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive and Finance and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Director.
On specic issues, as with the introduction in 2003 of the material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 share option scheme and in 2005 with the proposed stock bonus plan, of the 2003 Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, the Company will seek the views of leading investors.
evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
Bodycote annual report 2004 11 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 12 Directors Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Approximately 1,320 Bodycote employees are connected to the Bodycote As part of the general programme of risk management and review extranet, which will improve knowledge of Group activities, and assist of internal controls, Bodycote regularly keeps under review the risks greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
The latest edition associated with its corporate and social engagement.
Bodycote has of EveryBody Extra featured the Groups open door policy under which already developed appropriate policies and procedures for each Strategic employee concerns can be voiced on a condential basis.
In areas where Bodycote does not perceive either It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications shareholder value and or business risk, the aim is to develop and for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular implement appropriate policies over time.
The areas of signicance aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career are safety, health and the environment and the Groups employees.
development of all personnel employed by the Group, including disabled SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Group, where The Group has a positive approach to safety, health and environmental practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange appropriate matters and is committed to the achievement of the highest practicable training.
An equal opportunities policy is in operation in the Group.
standards of safety and health at work for all employees and to the RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT minimisation of adverse effects on the environment.
Appropriate safety Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies and health policies and procedures are in force at all strategic business is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best units, each of which has a dedicated safety and health team tasked to technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts reduce accidents at work.
During 2003 the Group began collating further research programmes with its customers.
Costs of research and data in order better to benchmark performance in subsequent years.
development are written off in the year in which they are incurred.
From 1 January 2004 the Group commenced reporting its performance in terms of lost time, frequency and severity of accidents in a uniform DONATIONS manner.
As a result each Strategic Business Unit is now able to Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted benchmark its health and safety performance and formulate criteria to 12,000 2003: 12,000.
There were no political contributions.
The Groups target of a 10% reduction in lost time CREDITORS POLICY accidents, frequency and severity, compared to 2003, was met in 2004 Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and a further 10% reduction has been targeted for 2005.
Bonus payments and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
to Directors and senior executives are in part dependent on achievement It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance of these targets.
Notwithstanding these very positive steps two employees with the terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied died in an accident at the Groups Hereford HIP facility in June 2004. with applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end The cause is still under investigation by the UK Health & Safety Executive.
for the Company were 45 days 2003: 45 days.
Where appropriate the Group will develop and implement environmental SHAREHOLDERS management systems consistent with international standards.
In 2001 An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at the Group began an assessment of the steps required to improve 20 February 2005 and details of major shareholders interests appearing its environmental performance and started seeking environmental in the register maintained pursuant to Section 211 of the Companies accreditation.
In 2004 all Strategic Business Units were mandated to Act 1985 are given on page 53. obtain ISO14001 or equivalent accreditation by the end of 2006 for all appropriate sites.
By the end of 2004 one site in North America, four AUDITORS sites in Sweden, three sites in Central Europe and a further sixteen sites In accordance with the provisions of section 384 of the Companies in the UK had been accredited to ISO14001.
Two UK sites are in the Act 1985, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP course of seeking approval.
All 53 of the Groups materials testing sites, as auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
which have a low environmental prole, operate to the ISO17025 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING standard which incorporates environmental management requirements.
The 2005 Annual General Meeting will be held on 25 May 2005 in EMPLOYMENT accordance with the notice set out on pages 51 and 52.
The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future By order of the Board profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
The involvement of employees at all levels is key to the Groups continued success.
Through their attendance at, or participation in, production, safety and health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with the performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the Group Hulley Road made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
Hurdseld During 2004 the Group published, via the Group extranet, two tenJ.
R. Grime Maccleseld language editions of EveryBody Extra an electronic magazine for all staff Secretary Cheshire detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities.
