80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 13 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during 2004 were Messrs The Committees areas of activity during 2004 included.
R. T. Scholes appointed 1998: Chairman from 2002, J.
A. S. Wallace Assessment of independence of auditors Committee Chairman 1994 to 2001 and a member from 2002 until retirement from the committee in November 2004, J. Vogelsang 2003 Approval of auditors re-appointment and fees and L. P. Bermejo 2003.
Appointments to the Committee are made Approval of scope of internal and external audits by the Board at the same time as appointment to the main Board of Bodycote.
In the cases of Messrs Vogelsang and Bermejo, appointments Approval of accounting policies and resources and plan for were made following a recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
and review of impact of implementation in 2005 of International All current members of the Committee are independent for the purposes Financial Reporting Standards of the 2003 Code.
Approval of management representations and internal representations Mr Scholes is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience Review of financial statements and results announcements having been an investment banker, and also as a chartered accountant.
Greater detail on the qualications and experience of all Directors is given Recommendation on policy on use of auditors for non-audit work on page 18 and their remuneration on pages 16 and 17.
The Committee Review of management improvement letters and audit process Chairmans additional responsibilities are reected by fees of 5,000 per annum for that role.
Review of arrangements for reporting and investigation of employee concerns The Committee met four times during 2004 and has the assistance of the Company Secretary, who serves as committee secretary.
100% Review of internal audit findings & monitoring of effectiveness attendance at committee meetings was achieved by all committee of internal audit members who served in the year.
The Committee held meetings with Review of effectiveness of Boards internal controls and risk both the external and internal auditors without management in attendance management process on 2 occasions.
The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Those attending meetings Assessment of internal and external audit effectiveness typically include the Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit.
Assessment of Committees own effectiveness In reporting financial results to shareholders, the Committee depends Recommendation of new terms of reference for committee on the skill, objectivity and independence of the auditors.
In the year and internal audit function ended 31 December 2004 the Committee obtained conrmation of the auditors independence.
It is the policy of the Company not to use the Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, auditor for non-audit services, save for tax compliance, matters where objectivity, independence, expertise, resources and general effectiveness the fee is unlikely to exceed 5,000, or with the prior approval of the of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Committee recommends and the Board Audit Committee.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors, and agrees to propose their re-appointment as auditors of the Company in other rms of auditors, for audit and non-audit services in 2004 are accordance with resolution 6 of the notice of meeting given on page 51. analysed in note 2 on page 27.
R. T. Scholes Audit Committee Chairman 1 March 2005 Bodycote annual report 2004 13
