Corporate Governance Statement The Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Company structure and risk management strategy.
"Combined Code on corporate governance ""the new The Board presently consists of seven non-executive Combined Code"" in July 2003."
Whilst the Company Directors, one of whom is Chairman.
The provision of will be required only to comply with the requirements the 1998 Combined Code which relates to the of the new Combined Code for the financial year combination of the roles of the chairman and chief ending 31 March 2005, the Directors have included a executive does not apply as the Company has no number of the new requirements in this report.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate All of the Directors are considered by the Board to be governance, which it believes is appropriate for an independent of management and free from any investment trust company and which will enable the business or other relationship which could materially Company to comply with the relevant provisions of interfere with the exercise of their independent the new Combined Code and, where appropriate, judgement.
with the provisions of the new AITC Code of Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 16 and Corporate Governance.
The Company is committed to 17 of this report.
The Directors believe that the Board high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is has a balance of skills and experience which enables it accountable to the Companys shareholders for good to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance and this statement describes how the governance of the Company.
The Senior Independent Company applies the principles identified in the 1998 Director is Eileen Mackay.
Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the The Board meets formally at least nine times each year.
There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is The Board believes that the Company has complied designed to address, in a systematic way, overall throughout the accounting period with the provisions strategy, review of investment policy, investment set out in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code performance, marketing achievements, budgets, except as detailed below.
dividend policy and communication with Directors shareholders.
Additionally Board Committees and sub The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys groups meet to pursue matters referred from the Board affairs.
It delegates, through an investment as a whole and the Chairman sees the other Directors management agreement and through specific regularly without representatives of the Manager being instructions, the day to day management of the present.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments regularly to discharge its duties effectively and the International.
The Company has no executives or table below gives the attendance record for the employees.
There is a formal schedule of matters formal Board and Audit Committee meetings held in reserved for the Board which includes, inter alia, the year.
decisions on gearing, Board appointments, Nicola Ralston was unable to attend the Board meeting appointment of the Company Secretary, strategy, and Audit Committee meeting held on 20 October Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Held Attended Held Attended Richard Barfield 10 10 4 4 Scott Dobbie 10 10 4 4 1 The Earl of Eglinton and Winton 33 11 Ian Inglis 10 10 4 4 1 Sir Gavin Laird 32 11 Eileen Mackay 10 10 4 4 2 Nicola Ralston 65 32 3 William Samuel 44 22 Roy Summers 10 10 4 4 1 resigned as a Director on 2 July 2003 2 appointed as a Director on 29 September 2003 3 appointed as a Director on 21 October 2003 Page 20 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Statement 2003 due to a commitment undertaken prior to her regulations that could affect the Company and or the appointment as a Director of the Company.
The Nomination Committee consists of all the A Director appointed during the year is required to Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that times as may be required.
The Committee has written one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year terms of reference and is responsible, inter alia, for and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting identifying and nominating, for the approval of the and also that every Director submit himself or herself Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies taking into for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to account the need to maintain a balanced Board.
these requirements for re-election, Directors are External consultants are also used to identify potential appointed to the Board for a specified period, initially candidates and this process resulted in the for three years and subsequent extensions are, in each appointment of Nicola Ralston and William Samuel as case, at the discretion of the Board.
The Committee also In accordance with the Articles, Nicola Ralston and considers whether Directors should be recommended William Samuel will seek election at the Annual for re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that since joining the Company in 2003 their The Nomination Committees written terms of performance has been effective and that they continue reference are available at the Companys registered to demonstrate commitment to the role of nonoffice and on the Companys website at executive Director including their membership of www.
Letters of appointment, which specify the terms of The Chairman, Scott Dobbie retires by rotation and will appointment, are issued to new Directors on offer himself for re-election at the Annual General appointment and include details of the time Meeting.
The Board endorses his candidature and commitment required and expected duration of commends his re-election to shareholders.
The terms and conditions of There is a procedure for Directors to take independent appointment of Directors are available for inspection professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys at the registered office of the Company.
This is in addition to the access which When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or every Director has to the advice and services of she is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company Secretary, Fidelity Investments the Company and their duties and responsibilities as a International, which is responsible to the Board for Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that some time with representatives of the Manager applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
whereby he or she will become familiar with the The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole various processes which the Manager considers Board, and therefore a separate remuneration necessary for the performance of its duties and committee has not been appointed.
Since all Directors responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys are non-executive, the Company is not required to policy is to encourage Directors to keep up-to-date comply with the principles of the 1998 Combined and attend training courses on matters which are Code in respect of executive directors remuneration.
directly relevant to their involvement with the Directors fees are disclosed fully in each annual report Company: a number of such courses was attended in see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages the year under review.
Thus training is tailored to the 24 and 25. needs of individual Directors and, in addition, the Company organises an annual offsite meeting which A process for the evaluation of the Board, its is not a formal Board meeting at which the Directors Committees and its Directors has been put in place to consider a variety of topics which are relevant to the enable the Board to comply with this requirement of Company and assists the Directors in updating their the new Combined Code for the year ending 31 March skills and knowledge.
This will take the form of written questionnaires regular briefings from inter alios the AITC, the and interviews.
The other Board members will Auditors and the Company Secretary regarding any evaluate the Chairmans performance on an annual proposed developments or changes in law or basis.
Page 21 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Statement their submission to the Board: and reviewing the Communication with shareholders effectiveness of the internal control systems including The Directors place great importance on financial, operational and compliance controls and communication with the Companys shareholders.
They also include responsibility for The Company carries out a programme of regular reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the dialogue and individual meetings with institutional audit process and the external Auditors independence shareholders.
and objectivity with particular regard to the provision At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders have of non-audit services.
The provision of non-audit the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a services is also subject to prior Board approval.
The presentation from the Manager covers the investment Audit Committee of the Board meets with the performance and strategy during the financial year independent Auditors in the absence of and the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes representatives from the Manager, at least once a that as many shareholders as possible will be able to year, to review these and other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the is called, the Chairman indicates the level of proxies external Auditors for the forthcoming year.
lodged for each resolution, and the balance for and The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the against the resolution, after it has been dealt with on a Auditors in connection with the financial statements show of hands.
The notice of meeting on pages 44 and 45 sets out the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
resolution is proposed on each substantially separate Such a system is designed to manage rather than issue including the annual report and accounts.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Audit Committee will be available to answer questions absolute assurance against material misstatement at the Annual General Meeting.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working for identifying, evaluating and managing the days before the meeting.
Companys significant business and operational risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 March Accountability and audit 2004 and up to the date of approval of the annual An Audit Committee has been established which is report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by chaired by Ian Inglis, consisting of all the Directors the Board and accords with the internal control with the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The Board has guidance for Directors on the 1998 Combined Code.
taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and The Manager is responsible for the design, relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the implementation and maintenance of controls and Audit Committee is properly constituted in this procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company respect.
The Committee meets at least 4 times a year and to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends and its authority and duties are clearly defined in its to operational and compliance controls and risk written terms of reference which are available at the management.
Clear lines of accountability have been Companys registered office and on the Companys established between the Board and the Manager and website.
These duties include: discussing with the regular reports on controls and compliance issues are independent Auditors the nature and scope of the provided to the Audit Committee.
In carrying out its audit and reviewing the Auditors quality control review, the Audit Committee has had regard to the procedures: considering the scope of work activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance undertaken by the Managers internal audit and risk function and the external Auditors.
The Audit department: monitoring the integrity of the financial Committees review also includes consideration of statements of the Company: reviewing the interim and FRAG 21 and similar reports issued by the Manager annual financial statements of the Company prior to and other service providers.
Page 22 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Statement The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit concluded that the Manager had satisfactorily met the function.
The Board has decided that the systems and terms of the Management Agreement and that it was procedures employed by the Manager, including its in the interests of shareholders as a whole that this internal audit function and the work carried out by agreement should be continued on unchanged terms.
the Companys external Auditors, provide sufficient Responsibility as an institutional shareholder assurance that a sound system of internal control, The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of which safeguards shareholders investment and the Ownership in relation to the Companys investments.
An internal audit These principles include the pursuit of an active function, specific to the Company, is therefore investment policy through portfolio management considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee meets decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and with the Managers head of internal audit on an annual maintaining a continuing dialogue with the basis without other representatives from the Manager management of investee companies.
The Manager in its being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Principles of Ownership expressly declares that it has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Audit and vice versa.
Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the Investment Management Agreement responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
"An investment management and secretarial agreement The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the the ""Management Agreement"" dated 17 and 19 July Company in accordance with the Managers existing 2002 was made between the Company and Fidelity guidelines and policies."
"Investments International ""Fidelity"", under which Socially responsible investment Fidelity has agreed to provide investment The Managers primary objective is to produce management, administrative and secretarial services to superior financial returns to investors."
It believes that the Company for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26 per over the long term, sound social, environmental and cent per annum plus VAT of the Value of Funds ethical policies make good business sense and takes under Management as defined in the Management these issues into account when, in its view, they have Agreement, which excludes investments in other a material impact on either the investment risk or the funds managed by the Manager payable monthly and expected return from an investment.
It does not calculated as of the last day of the preceding calendar screen out companies from its investment universe month to which it relates.
purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental The Management Agreement will continue unless and or subjective ethical records.
Instead it adopts a until terminated by either party giving to the other not positive engagement approach whereby social, less than three months notice.
The Management environmental and ethical matters are discussed with Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a management with the aim of improving procedures result of a material breach of the agreement or on the and attitudes.
insolvency, liquidation other than for the purpose of The Manager subscribes to research provided by the an amalgamation or reconstruction approved by the Ethical Investment Research Service to help identify Board of Fidelity.
In addition, the Company may those issues that could have a direct impact on the UK terminate the Management Agreement without companies in which it invests.
compensation in the two months following a change of control of Fidelity.
Going concern The Directors believe that the Company has adequate Management Engagement Committee resources to continue in operational existence for the The Management Engagement Committee which was foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to established in January 2004 with written terms of adopt the going concern basis in preparing the reference, meets once a year and considers both the financial statements.
continuation and terms of the Management Agreement.
The Committee consists of all the Scott Dobbie Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Chairman Committee met in April 2004 and reviewed Fidelitys 25 May 2004 overall performance in the year to 31 March 2004.
It Page 23 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
