40-41 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report The directors support the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 and Egg is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Steps have been taken during the year to comply with the provisions of the revised Code but implementation was delayed in relation to certain of the provisions of the Code, given the announcement by Prudential plc in January 2004 that they were in discussions with a view to a possible transaction with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code during 2004, with the exception of the following items which are explained under the relevant sections: Independence of directors not all members of the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executives, nor did the Chairman meet the Codes independence criteria at the date of his appointment: Senior independent director the Board did not have a senior independent director for the period from 1 January 2004 to the date of Ronnie Bairds appointment as senior independent director on 16 December 2004: Relations with shareholders there were no formal contacts between the Board and the larger minority shareholders.
Board of directors The primary objective of the management structures within Egg, headed by the Board of directors and led by the Chairman, is to deliver sustainable long-term value to shareholders.
Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the Chief Executive officer, who is supported by a committee of senior executives the Executive Committee.
The Board is made up of 11 directors, consisting of four executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
There have been no changes to the Board during the year.
As announced on 31 January 2005, Michael Harris will be stepping down from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
As he is due to retire by rotation at this years meeting, he will not be seeking re-election.
The Board met for 11 scheduled Board meetings during the year.
There were also 19 ad hoc meetings called during the year, mainly in relation to the possible disposal by Prudential of its shareholding in the Company to a third party and the future of the French business.
In addition, as reported under Performance Evaluation below, the Chairman held one meeting during the year without the executive directors being present.
A meeting of the non-executive directors, chaired by the senior independent director, was held in January 2005 without the Chairman present.
The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters reserved to it, including the agreement of strategy and budgets, the approval of quarterly and annual financial statements, the approval of major capital expenditure, policies covering treasury operations, and authority levels for expenditure.
In order to ensure good information ows, full Board and Committee papers are provided to the directors by the Company Secretary approximately five days before each Board or Committee meeting.
All directors have full and timely access to relevant information and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and to independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate and clearly dened.
The responsibilities of each of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer were approved by the Board in October 2004.
Independence of directors The relationship between the Company and Prudential plc is documented in a relationship agreement, which has been approved by the Board of directors.
Under this agreement Prudential plc is entitled to nominate one person to be a director of the Company.
Jonathan Bloomer, one of the non-executive directors, has been nominated by Prudential plc accordingly.
As previously disclosed, Prudential plc is also entitled to appoint any director to be Chairman of the Board.
Roberto Mendoza, another of the non-executive directors, has been so appointed.
Both are also directors of Prudential plc and, therefore, Roberto Mendoza was not independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
The Board is of the view that all the remaining non-executive directors are independent although, under the denition of independence contained in the revised Combined Code, Sir Derek Higgs does not fully meet the requirements of independence, having been employed by Prudential plc within the last five years.
However, the Board is of the view that Sir Derek Higgs is independent in character and judgement notwithstanding his previous relationship with Prudential plc which ceased in December 2000.
Senior independent director Ronnie Baird, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee, was appointed senior independent director on 16 December 2004.
The senior independent director leads the annual performance review of the Chairman and is available, if necessary, to respond to any points of concern raised by shareholders not addressed by the Chairman.
Principal committees The Board has established a number of committees, each with specic terms of reference copies of which are available on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce, consisting of certain directors and senior executives.
The following are the principal committees: Audit Committee Ronnie Baird Chairman Sir Derek Higgs Leslie Priestley Juan Rada The Audit Committee normally meets six or seven times during the year.
Ronnie Baird has been designated as the Audit Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
Juan Rada resigned from the Audit Committee on 22 February 2005 in order to be able to concentrate on other Board matters.
The Audit Committee has terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, and an agreed schedule of matters for each of its meetings.
The terms of reference were reviewed and amended by the Board in July 2004 to ensure compliance with Pillar 2 of the Basel II Accord and the Combined Code.
None of the amendments required was significant.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include the following responsibilities: The Audit Committee reviews the Groups statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board, and reviews the policies and process for identifying, assessing and managing business risks both financial and non-financial.
The Audit Committee reviews the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board, paying particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices and any changes in them: decisions requiring a major element of judgement: unusual transactions: clarity of disclosures: significant audit adjustments: going concern assumption: compliance with accounting standards: and compliance with obligations under the Combined Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
The Audit Committee reviews both the internal audit and compliance plans and ensures that both functions are adequately resourced and have appropriate standing within the Group.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of these functions on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee receives an annual report on money laundering and fraud management.
The anti-money laundering activities of the Company are managed within the Financial Crime Unit as a key part of the Companys approach to the management of financial crime risk generally.
The Committee also reviews IT security on a six-monthly basis.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers during the year and approved a revised policy.
This will be reviewed on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee also considers ad hoc issues: in particular this year, the Committee has reviewed the proposed plans for the Company to meet the requirements of the new International Financial Reporting Standards to be implemented in 2005.
It has also reviewed the programme to enable the Company to report to Prudential on its compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by 31 December 2005 and progress will continue to be monitored during 2005.
As part of the requirement for ongoing training, the Audit Committee is briefed at each meeting on any new accounting or regulatory developments.
The Group has adopted a policy on the independence of auditors.
The policy sets out four key principles which underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: the auditor should not audit its own rms work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
In accordance with this policy, the Audit Committee monitors and approves expenditure on non-audit work to enable the Committee to satisfy itself that auditor independence is not being compromised.
In accordance with the audit rms policy and the ICAEW Ethics Guidance, the Company has adopted a rotation policy for the lead engagement partner and other key audit partners.
The Committee assesses the independence of the external auditors biannually and at the end of each annual audit cycle it assesses the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee also assesses the performance of the external auditors annually, based on service level criteria determined in conjunction with the auditors and the Chief Financial officer when the audit approach and plan is reviewed.
Following this assessment, the Audit Committee makes its recommendation regarding their reappointment to the Board.
42-43 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report The Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The review was conducted internally by means of a questionnaire circulated to Committee members, the Chairman and senior management, the results of which were summarised and discussed.
While the overall conclusion was that the Committee was operating effectively, a number of actions were agreed and implemented.
The Audit Committee issues a standing invitation for senior executives, including those from finance, internal audit, compliance and risk management, as well as the external auditor, to attend each meeting.
On a periodic basis, and at least annually, the Audit Committee meets in private with the internal and external auditors.
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings are circulated to the Board after each meeting and the Audit Committee Chairman draws the attention of the Board to any matters of particular signicance.
Remuneration Committee Roberto Mendoza Chairman Ronnie Baird Jonathan Bloomer Pascal Cagni Sir Derek Higgs Leslie Priestley Juan Rada The Remuneration Committee considers the terms of employment and, if necessary, severance for certain senior executives, including the executive directors.
In particular it makes decisions regarding grants under share plans and decisions concerning the salaries, incentive compensation and other terms of employment.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Roberto Mendoza who has been nominated by Prudential plc as Chairman of the Board.
It includes as members both the independent non-executive directors and the non-executive director nominated by Prudential plc.
Whilst the Board acknowledges the provisions of the Combined Code relating to the independence of all members of the Remuneration Committee, the Board believes that the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive director nominated by Prudential plc are sufciently independent from the day-to-day activities of the business to assess objectively the remuneration of the Groups senior executives.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and amended by the Board in April 2004, in line with the revised Combined Code.
They were widened to include monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for the first layer of management below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee normally has three scheduled meetings a year, together with ad hoc meetings as required.
The Committee has access to professional advice inside and outside the Company.
Nomination Committee Roberto Mendoza Chairman Ronnie Baird Jonathan Bloomer Pascal Cagni Sir Derek Higgs Leslie Priestley Juan Rada The Nomination Committee meets as required to carry out the process of nominating candidates to ll vacancies on the Board.
Nominations are then considered by the Board.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Roberto Mendoza and includes as members all of the non-executive directors.
A majority of the members are therefore independent non-executive directors.
As there were no changes to the Board during the year, the Nomination Committee did not meet in 2004.
It is, however, proposed that the Committee will meet at least annually, and as required, going forward.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and amended by the Board in October 2004, in line with the revised Combined Code.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings The number of scheduled Board and committee meetings attended by each director during 2004 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings Number of meetings in the year 11 6 3 Roberto Mendoza 11 n a 3 Ronnie Baird 11 6 3 Jonathan Bloomer 7 n a 3 Pascal Cagni 10 n a 3 David Doyle 11 5 n a Paul Gratton 11 6 3 Mike Harris 11 n a n a Sir Derek Higgs 861 Mark Nancarrow 10 5 n a Leslie Priestley 11 6 3 Juan Rada 942 Directors terms of appointment, induction, development and re-election Non-executive directors are appointed initially for a three-year term.
Their appointment is reviewed towards the end of this period against performance and the requirements of the Companys business.
The letters of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
A wide-ranging induction programme has been drawn up for all new non-executive directors, including briengs from key members of management.
During the latter part of the year, a checklist of items was circulated to all directors to assess ongoing professional development needs, and a programme tailored to individual needs is now being established.
This will cover sector specic issues as well as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years, and at the Annual General Meeting following their attaining the age of 70.
Performance evaluation An evaluation of the Board has been carried out, in line with the requirements of the revised Combined Code.
All directors were asked to complete a questionnaire seeking observations on current performance and views and ideas on areas for improvement.
The issues covered were: the role and scope of the Board, the content of Board agendas, any areas of concern in relation to corporate governance, the mix of skills and experience of the non-executive directors, the contribution of the executive directors, the information provided to the Board, its culture, the effectiveness of performance monitoring and the effectiveness of the Board committees.
The results of the questionnaires were collated and the resulting report discussed by the full Board.
In addition, the Chairman has met or spoken with each director individually to discuss performance issues.
The non-executive directors met once during the year and also met in January 2005, led by the senior independent director, to review the performance of the Chairman.
Again, in respect of the performance of the Chairman, a questionnaire was circulated to all directors and the resulting comments collated.
The conclusions of the discussion were communicated to the Chairman by the senior independent director.
Relations with shareholders Given the Companys unusual situation, in that it has a controlling majority shareholder Prudential plc and a small number of key minority shareholders, it is considered appropriate that communication with these shareholders should take place through its internal Investor Relations department.
It has therefore not put in place rigid formal contacts between the Board and the minority shareholders.
Board members regularly receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company to further develop their knowledge and understanding of external views about the Company.
The directors also receive regular analyst forecasts.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4 on Monday 16 May 2005.
The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an important forum for both institutional and private shareholders and encourages attendance by all its shareholders.
At its Annual General Meeting in 2004, the Company provided details of the number of proxy votes received for and against on each resolution 44-45 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report and those votes abstained.
Shareholders were also provided with information on the total percentage of issued share capital voted on all resolutions.
Full details of the proxy voting are posted on the Companys website.
Given the Companys shareholding structure, voting is not conducted on a poll at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at the same time as the Annual Report, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, as with last years meeting, shareholders will be given the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Further information on the Companys financial calendar is available on our website at www.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for internal control in the Company and its related entities and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Systems and procedures have been designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and help ensure the quality of external reporting, compliance with applicable laws, regulations and to monitor internal policies with respect to conduct of business.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key procedures the directors have established are designed to provide effective control in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and for ensuring there are appropriate controls in place to manage them.
The procedures implemented have remained in place up to 22 February 2005, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Board.
The Board has undertaken an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control based on a comprehensive self-assessment programme by senior line and functional managers, co-ordinated by the Risk Management Department and reviewed and evaluated by the Internal Audit Department.
The Groups key internal control procedures include the following: Authority to manage Eggs constituent businesses is delegated to the Chief Executive officer within limits set by the Board.
There are Group-wide policies, procedures and manuals in place covering financial controls, business processes, information security, credit policy, treasury policy and compliance with regulatory and legislative requirements.
In addition, delegated limits apply to all transactions and risk positions to ensure that exposures are controlled.
The accountabilities of key managers are designed to ensure appropriate segregation of duties.
In each of the key business areas, regular independent checks are made by Internal Audit on operating performance and customer service to ensure that control procedures are being observed.
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, control and report on the major risks including credit, changes in the market prices of financial instruments, liquidity, operational errors and fraud.
Exposure to these risks throughout the Group was monitored during the year by each of the Operational Risk Committee, the Asset & Liability Committee ALCO, the Retail Credit Committee and the Wholesale Credit Committee.
They are also monitored by subsidiary company boards of directors and by the Chief Executive officer.
Risk assessments are also completed as part of all project appraisals, and risk is considered within the budget and business planning exercises, which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Eggs risk management processes are consolidated under the Chief Risk officer who has responsibility for ensuring that all risks are effectively managed and emerging risk issues are escalated to the Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
The Chief Risk officer reports to the Chief Executive officer, he is a member of the Executive Committee and provides quarterly reports to the Board.
There is a system of financial reporting to the Board based on an annual plan, with monthly reports of actual results, analysis of variances from plan, review of key performance indicators, and regular updates to forecasts.
The annual plan and revised forecasts are both reviewed against overall business strategy on a regular basis by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Market and competitor intelligence reports are received and reviewed.
The Internal Audit Department monitors compliance with Group policies and procedures and the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Group as a whole.
The work of Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk.
The Chief Internal Auditor reports to the Audit Committee and the Chief Risk officer.
These internal controls procedures apply to Egg plc and its subsidiary companies.
The Egg Group also includes an associated company, IfOnline Group Limited and a joint venture company Marlborough Stirling Mortgage Services Limited MSMS.
MSMS has adopted the Internal Control procedures operated by the Marlborough Stirling Group.
IfOnline Group Limited has a number of significant investors and applies its own internal control processes to meet the needs of all of its significant investors, rather than adopting the Internal Control procedures of Egg.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and reports regularly to the Board to assist in its review of effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Audit Committee receives an annual conrmation, through the Chief Risk officer, from senior line and functional managers that there have been no hitherto unreported material losses, contingencies or uncertainties caused by any weakness in internal controls.
