Accounts Corporate Governance The Directors confirm that during the year under review the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code 1998 on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Services Authority.
In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code the new Code which applies to accounting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board considered the new Code during the year and procedures have been instituted to ensure that the Company will be compliant with the new Code for the year commencing 1 October 2004.
The Board, which meets regularly, comprised of six Directors as at 30 September 2004, all of whom were non-executive.
The Board has nominated Mr JP Williams as the Senior Independent Director.
Independence of the Board All the Directors who held office during the year to 30 September 2004 have been considered by the Board to be wholly independent under the Code.
The Board has also particularly considered the question of the independence of each Director in the light of the new Codes provisions on that subject.
Since 1999 the Directors have pursued a programme of maximising returns to shareholders in accordance with the strategy formulated by the Board.
This strategy and its implementation has benefited from the Directors experience of Electras private equity investments as did the investment strategy review undertaken in 2004.
Continued review of Electras investment strategy remains an important topic for Directors and is undertaken by the Board which mainly comprises those Directors who have been involved in the realisation process from the outset.
Sir Brian Williamson, Mr JP Williams, Lord King of Bridgwater and Mr RA Armstrong have served on the Board for more than nine years and Lord King has a family relationship with a senior executive of Electra Partners.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the new Code and has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by length of service or family relationships.
The Directors including the Chairman who have been in office for more than nine years will submit themselves to annual re-election.
Performance Appraisal During the year and in recognition of the new Codes requirements relating to performance appraisals of Directors which will apply to Electra for the year commencing 1 October 2004, the Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors.
Additionally the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
This written appraisal process was prepared in conjunction with Electra Partners and relevant matters considered included attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each of the Directors being proposed for reelection continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Discussions have been held by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director with Hanson Green, who specialise in the recruitment of independent nonexecutive directors, so that this process will be externally reviewed for the year ending 30 September 2005.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the new Codes provisions or the Companys Articles, each of Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, Professor Sir George Bain, Lord King of Bridgwater and Mr JP Williams will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005 and each offers himself for re-election.
Matters Reserved for the Board The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management agreements with Electra Partners, together with the monitoring of the performance thereunder.
The management agreements set out the matters over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Each Director receives board papers several days in advance of each scheduled board meeting and is able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
Electra Investment Trust PLC 31 Accounts Corporate Governance Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for consideration by the entire Board.
The Audit Committee The Board has an Audit Committee with specified terms of reference.
It comprises all the Directors, other than the Chairman of the Board who resigned from the Committee in May this year with Mr RA Armstrong as Chairman of the Committee.
The principal role of the Committee is to review the content of the Annual and Interim Accounts, the accounting policies applied therein, to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements and to monitor the performance and independence of the Companys Auditors.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the Companys Auditors and the senior executives of Electra Partners.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr JP Williams and comprises all the Directors of the Company, other than the Chairman of the Board who takes no part in determining his own remuneration.
Full details of its role are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to consider suitable candidates for appointment as Director.
It comprises all the Directors with Sir Brian Williamson as Chairman.
New appointments to the Board are briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman and senior executives of Electra Partners.
Following appointment, Directors continue to receive appropriate advice to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and City analysts, with a number of presentations and visits being undertaken throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control The Code requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Code extended the earlier reporting requirements and now includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2004.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy agreement by the Board of the Companys investment strategy and authorisation and monitoring of all large investments.
Management Agreements the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
32 Electra Investment Trust PLC Accounts Corporate Governance Investment Performance the investment transactions and performance of the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
Management Systems Electra Partners system of internal control includes clear lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
Electra Partners compliance department monitors compliance with the FSA rules.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis verifying compliance with documented controls.
Custodians are required to produce on a regular basis a report available for review by the Directors on their internal controls and their operations including a report by an independent firm of accountants.
