Report on corporate governance continued Individual director performance evaluations were undertaken by the Chairman using a questionnaire and interview which covered each directors commitment, contribution, development, decision making, and interpersonal skills, with the link being made to training and development.
All directors were shown as continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate the necessary commitment and time to their respective roles.
The Senior Independent Director, with support from the other non-executive directors and following discussion with the executive directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman, the outcome of which was also satisfactory.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
The membership of the Audit Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Mark Nicholls.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Tim Melville-Ross.
The Nomination Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and is chaired by Sir Nigel Mobbs.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 55 to 56: the duties of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report on the activities of the Audit Committee on page 51: and the duties of the Nomination Committee are set out in the Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee on page 54.
The Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation of its committees during 2004, again using a questionnaire process, which covered the terms of reference and role of each committee, composition, committee meetings and achievement of each committees remit.
Again, the responses were reviewed and collated by the Chairman, audited by the Company Secretary, and discussed by the Board, which concluded that the committees were working and contributing effectively and achieving their respective remits.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which the full Board including all committee chairmen attend, and they are encouraged to exercise their right to vote, including by way of an electronic voting facility.
The Notice of meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and proxy voting is disclosed, including votes withheld.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate with questions and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors and senior management following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through a series of presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and interim results.
Feedback received during the year under review was positive and details of the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of interim and final results are reported on the Groups website www.
The Annual Report and Accounts, Preliminary Results and Interim Results documents, corporate social responsibility reports and other information are also available.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are accessible to shareholders and maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman writes annually to major shareholders emphasising his availability should they wish to meet with him.
No meetings were requested during the year.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors attended an investor presentation and analysts briefing held in November 2004 and the subsequent site visit.
Major shareholders attending had an opportunity to put their views and hold discussions with them.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 49 Report on corporate governance continued Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2004 in accordance with the extant Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risk register.
The Board regularly reviews this register to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities and operating environment of the business.
In this way it is able to reconsider its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions and Retirement Living, with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region and Retirement Living reporting through its local board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Page 50 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on the activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews the policies and processes for financial reporting, internal control, the identification, assessment and management of risk, audit effectiveness and compliance, the independence of the external and internal auditors and maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Audit Committee reports its activities, and makes recommendations, to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2004 the Audit Committee comprised Mr Mark Nicholls as Chairman, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh all of whom are independent non-executive directors and, until 11 November 2004, Sir Nigel Mobbs.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and all members, then current, attended each meeting with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who was unable to attend the final meeting of the year.
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attended all three meetings and the Head of Internal Audit attended two meetings.
The Committee also met privately with the external and internal auditors following Committee meetings and the Committee Chairman met privately with both the engagement partner of KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit when appropriate.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the work of the Committee which includes past experience in finance or as members of audit committees or other comparable experience in corporate activities.
In order for the Committee to retain his considerable experience in this area, Sir Nigel Mobbs will continue to attend all future Committee meetings by invitation.
Further to this collective capability to discharge the Committees responsibilities, the Board is of the opinion that Mr Mark Nicholls satisfies the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience and a brief summary of all biographical details is set out on page 41.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The details of members remuneration are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 55 to 66.
Remit and terms of reference The Audit Committees remit, set out in its terms of reference, includes the duty to: Keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting, internal control policies and the system of internal control and make recommendations to the Board.
Review the policies and process for identifying and assessing business risks and risk management procedures.
Review any significant litigation not in the ordinary course of business.
Consider and approve the appointment of the Head of Internal Audit and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Consider and approve the terms of reference of the internal audit function, review the planned programme of audits and ensure that it is adequately resourced.
Review promptly all reports on the Company from the Head of Internal Audit.
Consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approve the remuneration and terms of engagement and ensure that key partners within the appointed firm are rotated from time to time.
Meet with the external auditors at least twice each year and consider the nature and scope of the audit and ensure that any auditor management letters and management responses are reviewed.
Take primary responsibility for and keep under review and monitor the relationship with external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, including the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Keep under review the Companys operating, financial and accounting practices and the consistency of accounting policies both on a year to year basis and across the Group.
Review and challenge where necessary the Companys financial statements, formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, interim and final dividend proposals and presentations to analysts.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 51 Report on the activities of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It has access to the internal and external auditors and their reports, who in turn have unrestricted access to the Committee.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice.
None was obtained during the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During the year under review the Audit Committee followed a programme structured around the annual financial reporting cycle and reports from the internal and external auditors and management.
Activities in discharging the duties described above included: Rigorous review of the Preliminary Results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results, the Interim Report, proposed dividends and presentations to analysts prior to submission to the Board.
Review and challenge of reports, conclusions and results prepared by the internal audit function and presented to the Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit, including reports on the integrity of the system of internal control and risk management systems.
Examination and assessment of submissions presented by the external auditors in relation to the 2003 final audit, the 2004 interim review and the audit planning and strategy for the 2004 final audit.
Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including reporting by the external auditors and review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the interim review.
Private discussion with the external and internal auditors with no executive management present.
Review of the system of internal control.
Review of the internal audit programme and the resourcing of internal audit.
Review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function by performance evaluation.
Review of the presentation on progress on the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Review of the reports from management on IT resourcing and disaster recovery procedures.
Review of the Groups whistleblowing policy, providing staff with confidential access to the Group Company Secretary or the Head of Internal Audit, and receipt of reports on the effectiveness of the arrangements and specific instances of whistleblowing.
Internal audit function The activities, effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resources were monitored using a detailed reporting process and planning and review regime.
The freedom, scope and access allowed to the internal auditors in performing their duties was confirmed by management as unrestricted.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
External auditors During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
Page 52 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
