Report on the activities of the Audit Committee continued A policy is in place which requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and pension scheme audit work.
If a request for approval were made, the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For details of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 3 on page 75.
Performance evaluation During 2004 the Committee commenced a formal internal performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance and audit effectiveness.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process were effective, and that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and achieved its remit.
Briefings and training are provided where appropriate to ensure that the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best practice and regulation concerning its remit.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2005 Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 53 Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, succession planning arrangements, and leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2004 the Nomination Committee comprised Sir Nigel Mobbs as Chairman, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mr Malcolm Harris.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and all members, then current, attended each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Board.
Remit and terms of reference The Nomination Committees remit, set out in its terms of reference, includes the following duties: The regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments and plans for succession that are deemed necessary.
Preparation of a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment, in the light of an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
Identification and nomination for the approval of the Board of candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Ensuring that adequate succession planning processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
Keeping under review the leadership of the Company with a view to ensuring the continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Annual assessment of the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive director and ensuring that all members of the Board have sufficient time to devote to their duties.
Ensuring on appointment that a candidate has sufficient time to undertake the role and review his her commitments.
Ensuring on appointment that non-executive directors receive a formal letter of appointment, detailing the role and time commitment and an induction plan.
Recommending, where appropriate, directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election.
The Nomination Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
None was obtained during the year.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During 2004 the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning directors to retire by rotation and seek reappointment and for the reappointment of a new director at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
There was no new appointment to the PLC Board during the year but the Nomination Committee did review and recommend the internal restructuring which took place during the year and resulted in the appointment of two new directors to the Board of Bovis Homes Limited, Mr Michael Black and Mr Alastair Thomas, and the departure of the Group Operations Director from the PLC Board and the Group on 31 July 2004.
Appropriate succession planning arrangements were kept under review during 2004.
Nigel Mobbs Chairman of the Nomination Committee 11 March 2005 Page 54 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on directors remuneration Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Combined Code.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2005 inviting them to consider and approve this report.
The auditors are required to report to the Companys members on that part of this remuneration report which is subject to audit and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
This report is therefore presented in two sections: unaudited information and audited information.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up solely of independent non-executive directors with no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters to be decided.
Those non-executive directors serving on the Remuneration Committee, throughout the financial year, were Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh.
As required by the Combined Code, during 2004, Sir Nigel Mobbs, Chairman, resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and stood down from the Committee.
On the date of his resignation Mr Tim Melville-Ross was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
An invitation has been given to Sir Nigel Mobbs to attend each of the meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Meetings of the Remuneration Committee are held as and when appropriate and at least annually.
During 2004, the Remuneration Committee met on four occasions and each meeting was attended by all the members, then current, of the Remuneration Committee.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, from time to time, calls upon Mr Malcolm Harris Chief Executive to assist in discussions and deliberations of the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters not pertaining to the remuneration or terms and conditions of his own employment.
The Remuneration Committee has, on occasion, appointed the services of external advisers including Ernst & Young to advise on director remuneration.
Ernst & Young does not provide any other services to the Group.
Towers Perrin act as Trustee of the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the following duties: Determine on behalf of the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the executive directors and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
Ensure that executive directors and senior management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
Determine targets for any performance related pay schemes and ask the Board, when appropriate, to seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements.
Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance criteria of all share based remuneration schemes.
Ensure that contractual terms on termination and any payments made avoid rewarding poor performance and approve any severance payments.
Determine the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, Chief Executive, each executive director and other designated senior executives, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share options.
Determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for executive directors and pensions arrangements, termination payments and compensation commitments.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 55
