Report on directors remuneration continued Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance conditions of the annual bonus scheme and approve annual bonuses.
In determining remuneration packages and arrangements, give due regard to the requirements and recommendations of the Combined Code as well as the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance.
Review competitor companies but ensure that automatic increases are not implemented.
Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company.
Ensure that the provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, are fulfilled and produce an annual report of the Committees remuneration policy to be included in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines the Company's policy for the remuneration of executive directors, having regard to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and the Combined Code and its provisions on directors' remuneration Schedules A and B appended to the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee sets and implements the remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors and designated senior management.
The Remuneration Committee determines the need for independent professional advice where appropriate and has regard to information on compensation and salary levels in companies in the housebuilding sector and in other companies of comparable size, for executives with similar skills, qualifications and experience.
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to: ensure that the individual rewards and incentives fairly relate to the performance of the individual, the Company and the interests of shareholders: maintain a remuneration package which enables the Company to attract, retain, and motivate executives of the appropriate calibre and experience to further the success of the Company and maximise long term shareholder value: and take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Remuneration package The remuneration package of the executive directors consists of basic salary, performance bonus, health insurance, membership of the Bovis Homes Regulated Independent Car Scheme for Employees BRICS, pension, and participation in the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
In prior years, participation in the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme and Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan has also formed part of the executive directors remuneration package.
The Group suspended use of the Executive Share Option Scheme during 2004 after shareholder approval was provided to increase the maximum awards which can be granted under the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan from 75% to 100% of basic annual salary.
During 2004, the Group also suspended use of the share incentive plan in respect of the awarding of free shares in the Company.
The Remuneration Committee aims to balance appropriately those elements of an executive directors remuneration which are subject to explicit performance conditions, accepting that all remuneration is linked with ongoing appraisal of individual performance.
By virtue of the various elements of directors remuneration subject to performance conditions, a significant part is variable and is not guaranteed.
For remuneration paid during 2004 the fixed and variable elements of the remuneration package of each director was as follows: M R Harris D J Ritchie S H Brazier resigned 31 July 2004 7% Salary fixed 18% 18% Performance bonus variable 30% 42% 51% 42% Gains on options LTIP variable 30% 41% 22% Compensation for loss of office Page 56 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
