Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
More details of the Companys trading performance during the year and its prospects are included in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives operational review and the Financial review.
Results and dividends Profit after taxation amounted to 102.0 million 2003: 86.5 million.
An interim dividend of 6.4 pence 2003: 5.3 pence net per share was paid on 26 November 2004 and it is proposed to pay, subject to shareholders approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 13.6 pence 2003: 11.1 pence net per share on 20 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 March 2005.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2004 will be 20.0 pence 2003: 16.4 pence.
Also subject to shareholders approval, a scrip dividend alternative will be offered for the first time for this final dividend to allow shareholders to elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend in new ordinary shares.
Further details are given below with information on the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on pages 40 and 41.
Following an internal restructuring, Stephen Harvey Brazier, Group Operations Director, resigned as a director and left the Company on 31 July 2004.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 55 to 66.
In accordance with the Articles of Association two directors, Sir Gerald Nigel Mobbs and Mr David James Ritchie retire from office at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 11 May 2005.
Sir Gerald Nigel Mobbs and Mr David James Ritchie being eligible offer themselves for re-appointment.
Substantial shareholdings At 11 March 2005, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 50p each Number of % of issued shares held share capital Aviva plc 4,656,875 3.94 Legal & General Investment Management 5,843,232 4.94 Employees The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and environmental matters.
Information about the Groups performance and other matters is provided regularly by a news magazine, notice board bulletins and by consultations at staff meetings.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, an Executive Share Option Scheme and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 20 to the accounts for details of the option schemes.
Corporate social responsibility The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing its commitment to sustainable development and transparent corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and the environment.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 45 Report of the directors continued The Group's CSR policy commitments focus on sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, research and development, human resources, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group has an established process of risk identification and management embedded in its activities, whether risk is strategic, operational, financial, compliance, legal, environmental, social or related to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high health and safety and environmental standards expected from offices and sites and continually reviews the Groups environmental management system.
The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and takes regular account of the significance of environmental, social and ethical matters through the inclusion of relevant information and data in Board reports and other documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Details of key risks and policies and procedures for their management are included in the Groups freestanding Corporate Social Responsibility report dated 11 March 2005, which also includes key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Donations The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting to 8,410 2003: 4,615.
No political donations were made in either year by the Group or Company.
Suppliers The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the normal course of trade amounted to 34 days 2003: 38 days.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was nil throughout 2003 and 2004.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2005 Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 11 May 2005 is set out on pages 93 to 95.
Members wishing to vote should return the form of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
Subject to shareholders approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company will introduce a scrip dividend alternative pursuant to which the shareholders may elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend in new ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash for the final dividend payable on 20 May 2005, together with a scrip dividend mandate scheme for all future dividends to the extent that the Board decides, at its discretion, to offer a scrip dividend alternative in respect of such dividends.
Full details of the scrip dividend alternative and the scrip dividend mandate scheme are contained in a circular which will be posted to shareholders together with the relevant form of election on or about 8 April 2005.
At a meeting on 11 March 2005, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 11 March 2005 Page 46 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
