Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance of their strategic direction.
These responsibilities include Compliance leading the three subsidiary Executive Committees and The board of directors the Board are collectively ensuring that these Committees are effective bodies, responsible for the success and corporate governance of with appropriate senior management membership and The Evolution Group Plc the Company.
Through the leadership of the the principles of good corporate governance and code of Committees, he is responsible for deriving the operating best practice laid down by the Combined Code issued in plans and budgets for these businesses, monitoring July 2003.
The directors consider that the Company has business performance and reporting upon this to the been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section Board.
In addition, Lord MacLaurin acts as independent 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, senior Non-executive director.
The Board believes that issued in July 2003, as endorsed by the Financial Services these arrangements facilitate the effective management of Authority, save for the adoption by the Board of a formal the business and provide a strong control environment.
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and for compliance with Schedule A due to the absence of The biographies on pages 16 to 17 demonstrate a range performance bonus ceiling in the operation of the of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent Groups remuneration policy.
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of The first of these was formalised by the Board in February the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for 2004 with the adoption of a formal schedule of matters the proper management of the Company.
The second of these is explained in more detail the Company take decisions objectively in the interest of in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 33. the Company.
A statement of the directors' responsibilities The manner in which the Company has applied the in respect of the accounts is set out on page 21 and a principles of good governance set out in the Combined statement on going concern is set out on page 27.
Code is outlined below and in the Directors' Where directors have concerns about the running of the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 39.
Company or a proposed action that cannot be resolved, their concerns are recorded in the board minutes.
During Directors this year the resigning Non-executive directors provided The Board comprises three Executive and three Nonwritten statements to the Chairman that were circulated executive directors, whose biographies are set out on to the Board and the Board is satisfied that no such pages 16 to 17.
Lord MacLaurin, the senior Non-executive concerns were raised.
director, Nicholas Irens and Oliver Vaughan are independent of management for the purposes of the The terms of the directors' service agreements and letters Combined Code.
Other directors who served on the of appointment are summarised in the Directors' Board during the year were Sir Malcolm Field who Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 39.
In accordance resigned as senior Non-executive director on 13 July with the Combined Code, all directors are subject to 2004, George Loudon who resigned on 13 July 2004 election by shareholders at the first annual general and David Norwood who resigned on 18 March 2004. meeting of shareholders after their appointment.
Thereafter, all directors are required to retire by rotation In accordance with the Combined Code, there is a clear and are subject to re-election at least every three years.
division of responsibilities set out in writing between the One third of the Board will seek re-election at each running of the Board by the Executive Chairman and the future annual general meeting.
Directors who have responsibility for running the Group by the Chief served more than nine years will be subject to annual Executive.
The Executive Chairman, Richard Griffiths, is re-election.
responsible for the leadership and conduct of the Board and its oversight of the Groups affairs and strategy At the forthcoming AGM in May, Lord MacLaurin will be which includes ensuring the directors receive accurate, subject to election as this will be the first AGM after his timely and clear information, ensuring the effective appointment.
Oliver Vaughan will retire by rotation and, contribution of Non-executive directors, facilitating being eligible, seek re-election.
Resolutions proposing constructive relations between the Non-executive their election are set out in the Notice of Annual General directors and Executive directors, and implementing Meeting.
The Chairman confirms the directors seeking effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief election and re-election continue to perform effectively Executive, Alex Snow, is responsible for the management and demonstrate commitment to their positions.
of the Groups operating businesses and the development the evolution group plc 22 Report & Accounts 2004 The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the The results for the 2004 annual review were collated by Board through the Chairman on all corporate governance the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board at the matters.
All directors have access to the services of the subsequent Board meeting.
The Board was considered to Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for be performing effectively through this process and no taking independent professional advice at the Group's significant issues were raised.
Committee Performance Performance Committee performance is reviewed as follows: The Board conducts a formal and rigorous annual The Audit Committee is subject to a rigorous review evaluation of individual directors, its own performance by its own members.
Each member completes a and that of its committees.
The evaluation process is questionnaire to assess the effectiveness of the constructively used as a mechanism to improve Board Committee.
The results for the 2004 annual review effectiveness, maximise strengths and address its were collated by the Company Secretary and reviewed weaknesses.
by the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was responsible Attendance at Board meetings is set out on page 26. for leading a discussion on the results at the subsequent Board meeting at which time the Individual Performance Committee was considered to be working effectively.
Performance of individual directors is reviewed as follows: The Remuneration Committee is subject to rigorous the Chairman and Chief Executive are appraised by the review by its own members and in conjunction with Non-executive directors, led by the senior Nonadvice received from Towers Perrin, an external executive director and without the Chairman and Chief remuneration consultant.
Executive present: The Nominations Committee is subject to a rigorous the Chief Executive appraises the performance of the review by its own members.
other Executive director, having consulted the Nonexecutive directors: and Committees the performance of the Non-executive directors is The following committees deal with the specific aspects appraised by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
of the Group's affairs: In this manner, appraisals were conducted for all the Audit Committee directors during January and February 2005 in respect of The Audit Committee comprises the independent Nontheir performance in 2004.
In all cases the performance executive directors.
Nicholas Irens acts as Chairman of was appraised to be continuously effective.
the Audit Committee, with Lord MacLaurin and Oliver The Chairman ensures that all directors receive a formal Vaughan also members.
Other members who served on induction on joining the Board including a thorough the Committee during the year were George Loudon briefing about the Groups businesses and the opportunity who resigned as Chairman of the Audit Committee on to meet key senior management from the businesses.
13 July 2004, David Norwood who resigned on 18 March All directors review and update their skills and knowledge 2004 and Sir Malcolm Field who resigned on 13 July on a regular basis to enable effective conduct in their roles.
Attendance at Committee meetings is set out on Training needs are monitored and addressed as part of page 26.
The biographies on pages 16 to 17 set out the the annual performance evaluation process.
qualifications of all the members of the Committee during the year.
Nicholas Irens, as a chartered accountant with Following the individual performance appraisals, the recent and relevant financial experience, was considered Board considers its overall performance as a body and by the Nominations committee to be appropriate for the of its Committees.
role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board Performance The Audit Committee met three times during the course The Company believes that most benefit is to be gained of 2004.
The Group's auditors and the Executive directors from an in-depth annual review of all areas of Board may attend committee meetings by invitation.
activity and adopts a formal methodology to facilitate The Committee has a discussion with the external auditors this review.
Each member of the Board completes a at least once a year without Executive directors being detailed Board Effectiveness questionnaire at year end.
the evolution group plc 23 Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance - continued present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the concern.
Committees findings to the Board at the following Board meeting.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with the Combined Code and are available for inspection at Remuneration Committee the Company's registered office, at the AGM and on the The Remuneration Committee is comprised of all of the Groups website.
In accordance with the Combined independent Non-executive directors.
The members are Code, the Audit Committee's remit, which is set out in Oliver Vaughan, who acts as Chairman, Lord MacLaurin its Terms of Reference, includes responsibility for: and Nicholas Irens.
Other members who served on the monitoring financial statements and formal Committee during the year were Sir Malcolm Field who announcements of financial performance and reviewing resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration committee on significant reporting judgements contained within: 13 July 2004, George Loudon who resigned on 13 July 2004 and David Norwood who resigned on 18 March reviewing related information presented within the 2004.
Attendance at Committee meetings is set out on financial statements, including the operating and page 26. financial review, and corporate governance statements relating to risk and audit management, and reviewing The Remuneration Committee met five times during other statements containing financial information prior 2004.
The Executive directors attend certain parts of to Board approval: meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation reviewing the scope and findings of the external audit but do not attend discussions on their own at interim and final stage: remuneration.
reporting to the Board any identified matters requiring The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with action or improvement and recommendations of steps the Combined Code and are available for inspection at to be taken: the Company's registered office, at the AGM and on the reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal Groups website.
The duties of the Committee, as set out financial control procedures, and internal control and in its Terms of Reference, include: risk management systems, review any reports on the delegated responsibility to agree and recommend effectiveness of systems and conclusions of any testing remuneration policy: carried out by external auditors: responsibility for setting the remuneration of the reviewing arrangements by which staff of the Company Executive directors, Chairman of the Company and may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible senior management: improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other formulating suitable performance related criteria for matters and ensuring arrangements are in place for the any element of remuneration of the Executive proportionate and independent investigation of such directors, Chairman of the Company and senior matters and for appropriate follow-up action: management and making recommendations to the making recommendations to the Board for shareholder Chairman of the Company regarding bonuses or approval of the appointment, re-appointment and performance related remuneration: removal of external auditors, and external auditors advising and determining all performance-related remuneration and terms of engagement: formulae relevant to the remuneration of the directors reviewing on an annual basis external auditor of the Company and to consider the eligibility of independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of directors for annual bonuses and benefits under long the audit process: term incentive schemes: implementing and developing policy on the administering and granting share options under the engagement of the external auditor to supply nonCompanys share option schemes: audit services: ensuring that regulatory disclosure requirements considering the major findings of any internal regarding remuneration are met: investigations and managements response: and reviewing the policy or authorising claims for expenses from reviewing annually the requirement for an internal the Chief Executive and Chairman of the Company: and audit function and make recommendations to the responsibility for selecting and appointing Board.
remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
the evolution group plc 24 Report & Accounts 2004 The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports commitments of Non-executive directors are available for the Committees findings to the Board at the following inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Nominations Committee followed a process for Further details of how these responsibilities are executed nominating candidates for board appointments which and the Group's policies on remuneration, service involved considering the structure, size and composition contracts and share options are given in the Directors' of the existing Board, setting out a description of the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 39. role and capabilities required, drawing up a shortlist of candidates, holding a series of one-to-one meetings Nominations Committee between the candidates and Non-executive directors, and The Nominations Committee is chaired by Richard then candidates meeting with all members of the Board.
Griffiths, the Executive Chairman, who is joined by all the Future appointments will follow a similar process, with Non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee met consideration given to whether external advertising or once during 2004, at which the appointment of Lord external advice is required.
Attendance at the Committee The appointment of Nicholas Irens on 1 January 2004 meeting is set out on page 26. was considered by the full Board to improve the breadth The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with and depth of experience of its Non-executive directors.
the Combined Code and are available for inspection at The Board considered that his broad knowledge and the Company's registered office, at the AGM and on experience in his past executive positions and current and the Groups website.
The Nomination Committee is recent Non-executive positions across a range of responsible for all elements of the nomination process industries and company ownership structures, and his for the Executive and Non-executive directors of the recent and relevant financial experience as a chartered Company.
The duties of the Committee, as set out in accountant would be an important asset to the Board its Terms of Reference, include: and therefore no external advertising or external advice was used in connection with this appointment.
reviewing regularly the Board structure, size and composition to ensure orderly succession planning and The appointment of Lord MacLaurin as senior Nonmaking recommendations to the Board with regard to executive director on 13 July 2004 was considered by any adjustments that are deemed necessary: the full Board to improve the breadth and depth of identifying and nominating candidates for the approval experience of its Non-executive directors.
His evident of the Board and putting in place plans for succession: calibre and, notably, his experience within Tesco Plc and Vodafone Plc provides the Board with a significant evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and additional asset, particularly in regard to shareholder experience on the Board prior to making an relationships, the oversight of a growing business and appointment and preparing a description of the role the successful structure and operation of the Board itself a capabilities required for a particular appointment: and therefore no external advertising or external advice making recommendations to the Board for the was used in connection with this appointment.
continuation in service of an Executive director, for the re-election of directors who are retiring by rotation Attendance at Meetings and on the appointment of directors to the relevant The Board has a schedule of 12 meetings per annum to committees: and discuss matters arising in the Company's ordinary course of reviewing annually the time required from a Nonbusiness.
Additional meetings are arranged as required.
executive director and whether time commitments are The table overleaf identifies the number of Board and being satisfactorily fulfilled.
Committee meetings held during the year to 31 December The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the 2004 and the attendance record of their members.
Committees determinations to the Board at the following Board meeting and is available to report to shareholders at each annual general meeting.
The terms of appointment of Non-executive directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 39.
The conditions of appointment and time the evolution group plc 25 Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance - continued Scheduled Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 12 351 Richard Griffiths 12-- 1 Alex Snow 12--- Graeme Dell 12--- 1 Lord MacLaurin 31 - - 2 Nicholas Irens 11 351 Oliver Vaughan 10 231 3 David Norwood 2- 1- 4 Sir Malcolm Field 6151 4 George Loudon 3131 Notes 1.
Lord MacLaurin was appointed as a director on 13 July 2004.
The scheduled dates of formal board meetings during the year were in place and agreed with the members of the Board prior to the appointment of Lord MacLaurin.
Where attendance at formal board meetings was not possible, Lord MacLaurin was supplied with relevant information and separate meetings were held with Executives directors in advance of the formal board meetings in order to provide the appropriate continuity of Non-executive director board meeting participation.
Nicholas Irens was appointed as a director on 1 January 2004 3.
David Norwood stood down on 18 March 2004 4.
Sir Malcolm Field and George Loudon stood down on 13 July 2004 Review of Internal controls and Risks The key elements of the planning, control and performance The Board of directors is responsible for identifying, management framework, which constitutes the control evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by environment are: the Group to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Board review - On a monthly basis the Board meets to Company's assets.
It therefore has overall responsibility review the performance of the Group at strategic level, for the system of internal control covering all controls taking into account the reviews made at the entity including financial, operational and compliance and for Executive Committee meeting level.
The Board also reviewing the effectiveness of these throughout each of considers the reports made by the Audit Committee the Groups operating entities.
including the report on the effectiveness of internal control.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 and up to the approval date of the Annual Report and Accounts, Audit Committee The work of the Audit Committee the Board confirms there has been an on-going process is referred to in more detail on pages 23 and 24. of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant This Committee meets regularly to assess, as part of its risks faced by the Group.
The Group has complied with terms of reference, the performance of the controls in the Turnbull Committees guidance for directors.
place throughout the Group and it monitors the The planning, control and performance management external auditors in the performance of their duties framework in operation in each of the Groups operating with respect to the annual and interim audits.
entities considers the strategic, operational, commercial Budgeting and forecasting - Each operating entity and financial risks and identifies the relevant management submits a detailed annual budget and three year processes required to mitigate them.
The Board forecast for approval by their own Executive Committees acknowledges that they are responsible for the Groups and ultimately the Board on an annual basis.
system of internal controls, for setting the control Business reviews On a monthly basis each entity has framework and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal an Executive Committee meeting to review actual controls.
The system of internal control is designed to performance against budget and against prior year manage rather than eliminate entirely the risk of failure performance.
This review considers financial and to achieve business objectives.
Therefore, this can only operational results, focusing in on key performance provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against indicators relevant to each entity and the risks material misstatement or loss.
affecting these and the actions taken by management the evolution group plc 26 Report & Accounts 2004 to manage these and achieve the objectives set within During the year the heads of each support function the budget.
In addition, each Committee considers all produced a Group Risk Report for presentation to the major operational issues, trading developments and Audit Committee.
This highlighted the key risks identified additional projects in their respective operating across the operating entities and assigned responsibility businesses.
Each risk was assigned a probability of occurrence and likely maximum cost incorporating Compliance - Evolution Securities Limited and both quantitative and qualitative impact.
A prioritised Christows Limited are both authorised and regulated risk report was then generated highlighting those risks by the Financial Services Authority.
Evolution Securities with both a high probability and high likely cost.
China Limited is an appointed representative of ESL.
The Group therefore has a specialist compliance Following this review, risk reporting to the Board will department.
This department is responsible for now be carried out at least quarterly and the Group Risk maintaining a detailed and up to date understanding Report will form the basis of their review.
In addition, and interpretation of the rules and regulations that the Group has now recruited a Head of Risk with specific each of the entities is subject to and carrying out responsibility for the identification, evaluation and regular monitoring that procedures are being management of the risks within the Group.
Finally, a Risk implemented in compliance with these rules.
The Committee has been established in January 2005, chaired Compliance officers are in regular contact with the by the Head of Risk with particular terms of reference to Executive directors and report formally to the Board monitor and review the risks identified.
This will meet each month and are available to report to the Audit monthly and report quarterly to the Board.
The external auditors were engaged by the Audit Policies and procedures - The Group has detailed Committee in December 2004 to review the prioritised policies and procedures in place in all areas of its risks and they have reported back to the Committee in operations.
Its operations, finance, IT, compliance January 2005. and human resources departments utilise extensive monitoring and reconciliation to ensure control The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the throughout the reporting of its business operations.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Board The heads of each of these support functions meet on recognises the significant importance of an appropriate a quarterly basis to discuss all significant issues and system of internal controls and strives continuously to provide feedback to the Board on the progress of all make improvements to these.
In March 2005, the Audit risk management programmes, systems development Committee considered the progress made during the and projects.
year and assessed the up to date status of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Company has undertaken appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and The Committee concludes that the risks identified for the officers.
In addition to insurance cover for directors and year to 31 December 2004 are adequately managed and officers liability, the Company has utilised insurance mitigated through the system of internal controls in cover in respect of professional indemnity and corporate place throughout the Group.
crime, employers liability, and public and products liability.
Going Concern These financial statements are prepared on a going In accordance with the Combined Code, during the year concern basis as the directors have satisfied themselves the Audit Committee has considered the need for an that, at the time of approving the financial statements, internal audit function and made its recommendation the Group and Company have adequate resources to to the Board that due to the size of the Group and the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable relatively limited scope of its operations that it has future.
sufficient monitoring, reconciliation and control procedures in place to justify not having an internal audit function.
This situation will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee and the Board.
the evolution group plc 27 Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance - continued conjunction with the Groups broker.
In addition, the Auditor independence appropriate briefing meetings are arranged with analysts The Company has appointed  LLP and the press to ensure dissemination and interpretation as auditors of the holding company and all subsidiaries of the Groups results.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the cost communicate with private and institutional investors and effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to auditors.
The auditors disclosed the level of fees received ensure that all of the directors are available at Annual in respect of the various services provided by their firm in General Meetings to answer questions.
The proxy votes addition to audit during 2004.
They confirmed to the cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are Audit Committee that they did not believe that the level disclosed at those meetings.
of non-audit fees had affected their independence.
The Audit Committee is responsible for implementing a policy The Board recognises the importance of investor relations for the engagement of the external auditor to supply and communications with shareholders throughout the non-audit services.
The most appropriate advisors are year as well as at the time of results.
Throughout the used for non-audit work taking account of the need to year, the Chairman maintains a dialogue with the major maintain independence.
shareholders and is responsible for ensuring that shareholders' views are communicated to the Board as a In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the whole.
The senior independent Non-executive director Company will typically use the auditors for other work attends meetings with major shareholders to develop a that they are well placed to undertake in that role.
This balanced assessment of their views and is available to includes areas such as: regulatory reviews and other shareholders should other channels of contact be ancillary audit work: work in respect of acquisitions and inappropriate.
Major shareholders are given the disposals: and tax compliance.
opportunity to meet new and existing Non-executive Several firms are considered for other work, including directors.
the auditors in some instances.
In such cases due From January 2005, the Company has entered into a consideration is given to the impact of the assignment ShareDeal service offered by Capita Registrars whereby on the independence of the auditors and to their small existing shareholders have the opportunity, through qualifications to carry out the role.
an on-line and telephone share dealing service, to buy or Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken sell shares without opening an account, or completing by the auditors, and after careful discussion with the any application forms.
This is a quick and easy share responsible partner in  LLP and dealing service and is available to either sell or buy Evolution the Executive directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied Group Plc shares.
This benefits both the Company and as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
shareholders in extending the market for the Companys shares and facilitating dealing for private shareholders.
Relations with Shareholders An on-line and telephone dealing facility is available The Board is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory providing the Companys shareholders with an easy to dialogue with shareholders takes place and welcomes access and simple to use service.
For further information shareholder participation.
on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: The Chairman's Statement, Chief Executives Review and Website: www.
com on-line dealing 24 hours Financial Review in this report and accounts include a Telephone: 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing detailed review of the business and future developments 8am-4.30pm Monday to Friday.
as a way of informing shareholders of the Groups The Group's website at www.
The Board is also in regular contains information on the Group, its Board and dialogue with institutional investors, and analysts, committees, its operating subsidiaries and the products principally around the time of the Company's preliminary and services which it offers as well as share price announcement of results for the year and also when the performance and recent announcements.
After the announcement of the preliminary and interim results, the executive board members schedule a roadshow of presentations to existing and prospective shareholders arranged in the evolution group plc 28 Report & Accounts 2004 The Group adheres to the FSA principles of business Social, Ethical and Environmental Policy and follows their rules and guidance on appropriate In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board behaviour as well as guidance provided by the Listing has appointed a director with specific responsibility for Authority and other regulatory bodies under which the Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE policy and Group acts.
Furthermore, the Group is committed to remuneration incentives will include the management of extending its ethical obligation beyond regulatory SEE risk.
This role is held by the Finance Director.
Going compliance as regard to conduct in its relations with its forward, SEE issues will be regularly considered by the stakeholders, including clients, suppliers, advisors, and Board to identify, assess and manage the significant risks shareholders.
For example, Christows stockbroking and opportunities affecting the Companys long and manages the portfolios of a number of charity clients.
short term value arising from its handling of SEE matters.
To ensure this commitment is followed across the Group The Group has addressed SEE issues as detailed below.
all employees are required to complete training in ethical conduct.
Social Policy With regard to ethical employment policy, it is Group The Group is committed to upholding its social responsibility policy that no employee or applicant for employment and has measures in place to address this responsibility.
receives less favourable treatment including training and The Group endeavours in all its office locations to be development, recruitment and promotion by the Group an active member of the local business community.
or any other employee, on the grounds of sex, marital Employees in the Companys regional offices attend local status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sexual meetings of the Chamber of Commerce and are active orientation, political opinion, religion or disability, nor members of the West Country branch of the Securities be disadvantaged by conditions, management attitudes, Institute, involved in organising regional events which behaviour or requirements that cannot be justified.
are well attended by local business representatives.
Environmental Policy The Group has made 17,085 2003: 7,520 in charitable The Board considers the Group makes the appropriate donations during the year as detailed on page 18 and provision for environmental issues appropriate to the size supports its staff participation in charitable events.
of the Group operating in the financial services industry.
The Groups parental and family policies for employees The Group will be introducing a formal environmental address the importance of family values and the Group policy which will be available to all employees through endeavours to respond positively to all requests for the Group intranet site.
flexible working practices to uphold these values.
The Group conforms to the Waste Electrical and Christows, the Groups stockbroking division, has Electronic Equipment Directive 20020 96 EC by recycling obtained accreditation as an Investor in People.
This covers items such as white goods, brown goods, IT and The Group is committed to employee development telecommunication equipment, electrical lighting and through on-going education and training to ensure the electrical tools.
Paper, confidential waste, newspapers most effective use of the talents, skills and experience of and magazines, packaging, plastic cups and containers its employees.
The Head Office of the Group is located within a managed building which follows best Ethical Policy practice guidelines for environmental issues including The Group conducts business in an ethical manner with programmed lighting, air conditioning sensors, appropriate regard to the way in which business is monitoring water usage and recycling.
Its ability to operate ethically in business is facilitated by the strong control environment as detailed on pages 26 to 27. the evolution group plc 29
