"Application of Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Code on Meetings attendance table Corporate Governance the Code"" in July 2003."
Management Audit Engagement The Board has put in place a framework for corporate Board Committee Committee governance, which it believes is appropriate for an Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended investment trust company and which will enable the Robert Walther 55 3 3 1 1 Company to comply with the relevant provisions of the David Simpson 54 3 3 1 1 Code and the provisions of the Code of Corporate Johan Bjrkman 55 3 3 1 1 Governance published by the Association of Investment Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a n a n a Trust Companies the AITC Code which has established the framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Simon Duckworth55 3 3 1 1 The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained within the Code and the AITC Senior independent director As the Board consists entirely Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, of non-executive Directors, the Board has concluded that except where disclosed below, and this statement describes there is no need to appoint a senior independent Director.
how the relevant principles of governance are applied to This is in accordance with the AITC Code.
Board balance The Board consists of Directors who between The Board and its Committees them, have good knowledge and wide experience of business in The Board The Board of Directors has overall responsibility Europe and of investment trusts.
Biographical details of all for the Companys affairs.
All matters which are not Directors including their directorships are given on page 4 of delegated to the Companys Manager under the Management this report.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all Agreement are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind and reserved for the Board include, inter alia, decisions on quite independently of any other associations.
It meets at least strategy, management, structure, capital, gearing, financial four times a year and endeavours to provide leadership in terms reporting, risk management, investment performance, share of the direction of the Company.
Between these meetings price discount, corporate governance, the appointment of there is regular contact with the Manager.
the Company Secretary and board appointments.
Appointments to the Board The Company complies with the The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, requirements of the AITC Code in respect of appointments four of whom are independent of the Companys Manager.
Whilst the independent Directors take the lead Mr Simon Fraser is an employee of the Manager and is in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new therefore not independent.
In considering the independence Director will be discussed and approved by all of the Board.
of the Chairman, who has served as a Director for more than As a consequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
nine years, the Board has taken note of the AITC Code and External consultants may be used to identify potential concluded that lengthy service on a board does not of itself candidates.
Upon appointment, each Director receives compromise independence, indeed his experience and training on the investment operations and administration knowledge is of positive benefit to the Board.
Nonetheless in functions of the Company, together with a summary of their the light of the provisions of the Code Robert Walther will be duties and responsibilities.
The Directors also receive regular seeking annual re-election.
The independent Directors form briefings from, amongst others, the AITC, the Auditors and the membership of the Audit Committee and the the Company Secretary regarding any proposed Management Engagement Committee.
developments or changes in law or regulations that affect the Company and or the Directors.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are discharge its duties effectively and the following table gives available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
the attendance record for the meetings held during the year: 19 Application of Corporate Governance Performance evaluation A process for the evaluation of the once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
In Board, its Committees and its Directors has been put in place the year to 31 December 2004 the Audit Committee and this takes the form of written questionnaires and, if discharged its responsibilities by inter alia:- appropriate, interviews.
The performance of the Chairman is Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim evaluated by the other directors on an annual basis.
The financial statements prior to Board approval and Company Secretary and Investment Manager also reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual participated in part of these processes to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
The results of these evaluations were financial statements: issued to and discussed by the Board.
The process is Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys considered to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for accounting policies: improving the functioning and performance of the Board.
Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing Re-election As required by company law, all newly non-audit fees payable to the Companys external appointed Directors stand for election by the shareholders Auditors: at the next Annual General Meeting following their Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement: appointment.
The Directors retire by rotation and offer Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of the themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years.
Companys accounts: Directors who have reached the age of 70 are subject to annual re-election.
Directors who have served on the Board Reviewing the external Auditors quality control for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
procedures: The representative of the Manager is subject to annual reReviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the election.
A procedure has been put in place whereby formal external audit process and the external Auditors letters of appointment, which specify the terms of independence and objectivity: appointment, are issued to new Directors on appointment Considering the scope of work undertaken by the and to existing Directors as they retire and are subject to reelection at the Annual General Meeting.
Managers internal audit department: Reviewing a semi-annual report on risk and internal As mentioned on page 16 Messrs Walther, Fraser and controls and reporting to the Board: and Duckworth will retire and will be seeking re-election at the Considering and reconfirming that it does not need an forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
internal audit function given that the Company delegates The Audit Committee consists of all the independent its day to day operations to third parties.
Directors, and is chaired by Mr David Simpson.
The Committee considers that collectively its members have The Management Engagement Committee consists of all of the sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge independent Directors and is chaired by Mr Robert Walther.
The Committees authority and The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which performance of the Manager in respect of its contract and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
This Committee meets once a year and These include responsibility for reviewing the interim report reports to the Board of Directors, making recommendations and annual report and accounts, reviewing the scope and where appropriate.
results of the audit and the effectiveness and cost of the audit process and reviewing the Companys internal financial The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed controls.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and by the Management Engagement Committee: it relates monitoring the external Auditors independence and objectivity to the investment management function, on which a with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services.
percentage of the funds under management is paid, and The Audit Committee of the Board meets the Auditors at least to the administrative function.
20 The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing Directors remuneration The level of Directors fees is the performance of the Manager are set out below:- determined by the whole Board and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has not been appointed.
Since all Quality of team the skills and particularly the Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to experience of the team involved in managing all comply with the principles of the Code in respect of aspects of the Companys business: executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust disclosed fully in the Annual Report see the Directors business generally and to the Company in particular: Remuneration Report on page 23.
Managing the Company in running and controlling the administration, the accounting and the Accountability and Audit secretaryship of the Company: Financial reporting Set out on page 18 is a statement by Investment management portfolio management the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the skills, experience and track record and other accounts.
The Auditors have set out their reporting investment related considerations including gearing, responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: on pages 24 and 25.
Shareholders shareholder consciousness and Going concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to relations, discount management and commitment to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the Companys goals: and accounts since the assets of the Company consist mainly of Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the periods and duties.
Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Committee met on 20 January 2005 and reviewed the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December Internal control The Directors review the effectiveness of the 2004.
The Committee noted the Companys good Companys systems of internal control on an ongoing basis.
The performance record over the short, medium and longer identification, control and evaluation of risks identified, term and the commitment, quality and continuity of the covering financial, operational and compliance matters is team which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee formulated by a series of quarterly investment performance concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that reports, a semi-annual internal controls report and quarterly the Management Agreement should continue.
compliance reports as provided by the Manager.
The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather than Supply and agenda of information The quarterly Board eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and meeting papers are the key source of regular information for can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has contractually and contain sufficient information on the financial condition delegated to external agencies, including the Investment of the Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The assets, the registration services and the day-to-day accounting Directors have access to the advice and services of the and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts Company Secretary through its appointed representative, was entered into after full and proper consideration by the who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Board of the quality and cost of services offered including the procedures are followed and that applicable rules and control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the regulations are complied with.
The Directors also have the affairs of the Company.
ability to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a semiand Officers liability insurance through the Manager.
annual risk and control assessment.
The business risks have 21 Application of Corporate Governance been analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board is report which is regularly reviewed.
Whilst the Company, in concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue common with most investment trusts, has no internal audit between the Company and shareholders.
It believes the department, the effectiveness of these controls is monitored by Companys institutional shareholders do have proper access the Managers compliance and internal audit functions.
The to the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on the If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose Company and an annual compliance report from the Managers details are given on page 41.
All shareholders, particularly Global Oversight Director.
The Board also receives each year individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual from the Manager a report on its internal controls which General Meeting at which there is always a presentation of includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, the control procedures in operation around the investment followed by the opportunity to meet the Management and management and administration processes.
procedures set out above and in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related published in 1999, the Directors have established an ongoing papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant before the meeting.
risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is of the internal control systems throughout the year.
called, are reported for each resolution after it has been Voting policy The Board has adopted the Managers dealt with on a show of hands.
Principles of Ownership in relation to investments.
These The Notice of Meeting on pages 42 to 44 sets out the principles include the pursuit of an active investment policy business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate through portfolio management decisions, voting resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a including the Annual Report and Accounts.
continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
In its Principles of Ownership, the Manager The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Principles answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
drawn up in 2002 by the Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the On behalf of the Board Company in accordance with the Managers existing Robert Walther guidelines and policies.
28 February 2005 Shareholders The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and 22
