Corporate Governance Introduction with, the Manager.
The Directors also have access, To ensure the appropriate level of corporate where necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, governance, two important documents were to independent professional advice at the expense published in July 2003: The Financial Reporting of the Company.
Councils revised Combined Code on Corporate Directors are initially appointed until the following Governance for all listed companies and the Annual General Meeting when, under the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC Companys Articles of Association, it is required Code of Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts.
that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, Compliance with the revised Combined Code is a Directors appointment will run for a term of mandatory for accounting periods commencing after three years.
A Director may thereafter be invited to 1st November 2003 and its aim is to improve investor serve for one or more further terms of three years, confidence by enhancing the effectiveness of Boards.
in every case subject to the normal requirements The AITCs Code of Corporate Governance for re-election by shareholders at Annual General complements the Combined Code and provides a Meetings.
framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Board Committees The Board is responsible for ensuring the It is the Boards intention to establish a appropriate level of Corporate Governance and it Nomination Committee to consider Board intends to put in place arrangements which will composition and, when necessary, to select and enable the Company to comply with the revised propose suitable candidates for appointment to Combined Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate ensure that the Board has a balance of skills to Governance.
The following report outlines how the carry out its fiduciary duties.
A variety of sources, principles of the existing Combined Code, issued in including the use of external search consultants, June 1998, were applied during the year, unless may be used to ensure that a wide range of stated otherwise.
The Board The Audit Committee meets at least twice each The Board consists of seven non-executive year.
The Committee reviews the actions and Directors, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, all of judgements of management in relation to the whom are considered to be independent.
interim and annual financial statements and the Accordingly, the Board does not believe that it is Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It necessary to appoint a senior independent director.
reviews the terms of the managment agreement The Company has no executive Directors or and examines the effectiveness of the Companys employees and a management agreement between internal control systems, receives information from the Company and JPMFAM sets out matters over the Managers compliance department and reviews which the Manager has authority.
This includes the scope and results of the external audit, its cost management of the Companys assets and the effectiveness and the independence and provisions of accounting, company secretarial, objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors administrative and some marketing services.
All statement on the Companys system of internal other matters are reserved for the approval of the control is set out below.
Relations with Shareholders The Board meets at least quarterly during the year The Board regularly monitors the shareholder and between these meetings there is regular profile of the Company.
contact with the Manager who provides the Board At the Companys Annual General Meeting the with appropriate and timely management Directors and representatives of the Manager are information.
The Board regularly reviews both the available in person to meet with and answer performance of, and the contractual arrangements Fleming Mercantile 21 Corporate Governance continued shareholders questions.
In addition, a the Company does not have an internal audit presentation is given by the Investment Managers function.
The key elements designed to provide who review the Companys performance.
During effective internal control are as follows: the year the Companys brokers, the Investment Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Manager and JPMFAM hold regular discussions review by the Board of key investment and with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made financial data, including management accounts, fully aware of their views and responses are revenue projections, analysis of transactions and tailored as necessary.
The Chairman and Directors performance comparisons.
make themselves available as and when required Management Agreement Appointment of a to address shareholder queries.
manager and custodian regulated by the Financial The Company reports formally to shareholders Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities twice a year by way of the Annual Report and are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Accounts and the Interim Report.
All shareholders Management Systems The Managers system of have the opportunity to attend and vote at the internal control includes organisational Annual General Meeting during which the Directors agreements which clearly define the lines of and Managers are available to discuss any issues responsibility, delegated authority, control affecting the Company.
The Directors may be procedures and systems.
These are monitored by contacted through the Company Secretary whose JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly details are shown on page 41. monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Internal Control Investment Strategy Authorisation and The Combined Code requires the Directors at least monitoring of the Companys investment strategy annually to review the effectiveness of the and exposure limits by the Board.
Companys system of internal control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
This The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of encompasses a review of all controls, which the the Companys system of internal control by Board has identified as including business, financial, monitoring the operation of the key operating operational, compliance and risk management.
controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which is designed to the Board, through the Audit Committee, safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper reviews the terms of the management accounting records and ensure that financial agreement and receives regular reports from information used within the business, or JPMFAMs compliance department: published, is reliable.
However, such a system can the Board reviews the report on the internal only be designed to manage rather than eliminate controls and the operations of its custodian, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not reviewed: and absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
the Directors review every six months an independent report on the internal controls and Since investment management, custody of assets the operations of JPMFAM.
and all administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the By the means of the procedures set out above, the Companys system of internal control mainly Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness comprises monitoring the services provided by of the Companys system of internal control for the JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating year ended 31st January 2004, and to the date of controls established by them, to ensure they meet approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
