Corporate Governance Report Role of the Board: The Board provides leadership of the Group individual directors, who consider it necessary in furtherance and, either directly or through the operation of committees of their duties, may take independent, professional advice of directors constituted with appropriate written terms of at the Companys expense.
reference and delegated authority, brings an independent Performance and continual professional development: The judgement on all issues of strategy, performance, resources Boards formal annual evaluation of its own performance and including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The that of its committees and individual directors was effected in Board sets the Groups strategic aims, which it then implements December 2004 by each director completing a questionnaire through its approval and regular monitoring of a business plan prepared internally and based on the Combined Code and the and budget prepared by the executive directors.
This plan several guidance notes issued in July 2003 with that relates to the Groups two core businesses: life and pensions publication.
The replies to those questionnaires were sent in and asset management.
Each core business is organised confidence to the chairman who analysed them.
The overall through a group of subsidiary companies, each group having outcome was discussed at the December 2004 Board meeting a principal operating company: Friends Provident Life and and the manner of dealing with emerging issues and concerns Pensions Limited FPLP for the life and pensions business identified by the chairmans analysis was addressed.
The Board and F&C Asset Management plc F&C for the asset has again confirmed that it will keep this process under review management business.
F&C is 51% owned by the Company to ensure that analyses of the outcome of this evaluation and is itself listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The business will give the Board, and the Chairman and the Nomination plan specifies key developments towards the strategic Committee in particular, the information they need to continue objectives that are to be achieved by management within to fulfil the intentions underlying the requirements of the an agreed budget.
At its monthly meetings, supplied with Combined Code during 2005.
Directors also individually attend information that is both timely and appropriate, the Board deals external seminars and briefings to keep up-to-date with with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and regulations and best practice affecting the Groups core takes all material decisions affecting the Group.
These include businesses and report on these to the Chairman and the acquisitions, sales, capital expenditure and financing, and the Secretary.
There is a full induction process in place for new oversight and review of the operation and achievement of the directors that recognises the complexities of the life and Groups activities.
The Boards of F&C and FPLP and other pensions and asset management businesses and aims to FSA-regulated subsidiaries also meet separately and regularly enable directors to make a full contribution to Board to monitor and direct the operations of those businesses.
discussions within an optimum timeframe.
Board Membership, Attendance and Balance: The current Committees of the Board: All committees of the Board that membership of the Board and the significant commitments are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are of the directors are stated on pages 22 and 23, which record chaired by an independent director and exclusively comprise, the names of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and or, in the case of the Nomination Committee where the Chairman the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent Director.
The names of the chairman and members of the of the Board is a member, have a majority of, independent Audit and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration directors.
Reports on the activities of the Audit and Compliance, Committees are stated in the reports of those Committees.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees, including During 2004 the Board met on 12 occasions, including an membership and attendance, are included at pages 46, 47 off-site strategy meeting.
Graham Aslet could not attend and 49.
Details of other committees are: one meeting of the Board.
Ray King, who joined the Board in Investment Committee January 2004, had a number of pre-existing commitments that David Newbigging Chairman, Howard Carter, Christopher prevented his attending two meetings.
Otherwise, all directors Jemmett, Lady Judge, Adrian Montague since 28 October 2004, were present at every meeting they were eligible to attend.
Philip Moore, Keith Satchell, Brian Sweetland.
Graham Aslet The Board considers all six non-executive directors which was a member of the Committee until 31 December 2004. expression excludes the Chairman to be independent in With Profits Committees WPC of the life and pensions character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships operating companies or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear While these committees are committees of the boards of to affect, the judgement of any of them.
The Board makes FPLP and its subsidiary insurance companies and not the this assertion having considered and taken full account of the fact that Lady Judge was first elected to the Board of Friends Company, the Board of the Company appoints the chairman Provident Life Office in May 1994 and to the Board of the of the WPC from amongst the independent, non-executive Company in June 2001.
The Board is entirely satisfied that directors of the Company.
Alison Carnwath has fulfilled that Lady Judge is independent in character and judgement, that role since 1 April 2004.
An overview of the work of the WPC there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to is set out on page 48. affect, or could appear to affect, her judgement.
Further, she Reporting to shareholders: The Company places considerable has the broad experience, credibility and commitment required importance on communications with shareholders and to be an effective independent director and makes important responds to them on a wide range of issues.
It has an ongoing contributions to governance and strategic issues that would be programme of dialogue and meetings with major institutional difficult to replace.
shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including The non-executive directors experience covers a broad strategy, performance, management and governance are spectrum and, coupled with the focus and experience of the discussed.
Further, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Chairman and the executive directors, the Board is able to lead Director are available to meet major shareholders and the and give direction to the Group without any imbalance that may Chairman writes annually to the twenty largest shareholders, allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its emphasising his availability should they wish to meet with decision taking.
Any director having a concern in this or any him.
Twice during the year, the Chairman and the nonother regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior executive directors met with the Companys joint brokers, Independent Director.
All directors also have access to the Cazenove and Merrill Lynch, after executive presentations advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures to major shareholders had been completed.
This helps the that Board process and leading corporate governance practice non-executive directors to maintain an up-to-date understanding are followed.
There is also an established procedure whereby of the views of major shareholders.
42 Friends Provident Corporate Governance Report continued At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the In accordance with guidance published in September 1999 by provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined of directors, particularly committee chairmen.
The timing of the Code the Turnbull Guidance the Board confirms that despatch of the formal notice of the Annual General Meeting there has been in place for the year under review, and up to complies with the Combined Code.
The outcome of every the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, an general meeting of shareholders, including detailed voting ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the results and votes withheld, is published on the Companys significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly website following the close of the meeting.
reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance and the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Statement of directors responsibilities: Company law Responsible Investment, which focus on Social, Ethical and requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Environmental SEE risks.
financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss Last years report mentioned that formal committees had been for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the established from 1 October 2003 to oversee risk management directors are required to: and that the structure for the management of risk would continue to develop during 2004.
That structure has operated select suitable accounting policies and then apply satisfactorily throughout 2004 and the several formal committees, them consistently: chaired by the Group Risk Officer, have met regularly in fulfilment of their roles.
As expected, the benefit of the Groups make judgements and estimates that are reasonable experience of working within that structure during 2004 has and prudent: resulted in further development of the structure of the Groups risk management operations.
Accordingly, in November 2004, state whether applicable accounting standards have the Board approved a revised structure that has been in been followed, subject to any material departures operation from 1 January 2005. disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and The Board retains its responsibility for the system of internal prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis control.
The Group Risk Committee comprises the executive unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will directors of the Company and the CEO of F&C, and is chaired continue in business.
by the Group Chief Executive.
It recommends to the Board the Groups overall risk management framework and its high The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting level policy for managing risk, approves the risk management records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the frameworks within the Groups two core businesses and financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure determines policy for the management of group risk.
The board that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act of FPLP reviews risk management information within its core 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as business and is responsible for the identification and are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the assessment of risks to the achievement of group strategy Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
It is supported in this work by two new committees, the Financial Risk Committee FRC and the The directors confirm that they have complied with Operational Risk Committee ORC.
These comprise selected these requirements.
directors from the board of FPLP and relevant senior managers In addition to being included with the Annual Report, from the life and pensions business.
The FRC, chaired by the the financial statements are published on the Companys Group Finance Director, sets and oversees the implementation website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance of policy for the management of market, credit, insurance and and integrity of the website and compliance with legislation liquidity risk within the life and pensions core business.
The in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination ORC, chaired by FPLPs Director of Information Technology, of financial statements which may differ from legislation has equivalent responsibilities in respect of operational risk.
Within the asset management core business, the F&C Risk Committee sets and implements risk management policies.
Statement of compliance with provisions of the Combined Code Key to the development of the Groups risk management The Directors consider that, save as next mentioned, the framework has been the appointment, with effect from Company has throughout 2004 and up to the date hereof 19 July 2004, of a new Director of Risk, who reported to the applied the principles and met the requirements of the Group Risk Officer until the end of 2004.
While it remains the intention of the Directors the Director of Risk has assumed the role of Group Risk Officer fully to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code and reports to the Group Finance Director.
wherever such compliance is within their control, between 20 May 2004 when Roger Morton retired and 27 October 2004 Alongside the development of the risk committee structure, when, following a recruitment process involving external the risk management framework within the life and pensions consultants, Adrian Montague was appointed, the number business has been developed, including the delivery of revised of independent, non-executive directors on the Board did not risk reporting to the new committees, to the board of FPLP represent at least half the Board membership, excluding the and to the Board of directors of the Company.
The Executive Committee of the Company comprises Internal controls compliance position: The Board of the executive directors of the Company and the CEO of F&C and Company is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems the Management Committee of F&C comprises the executive of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These directors and senior management of F&C.
The appropriate risk systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk committee will bring to the attention of the Executive of failure to achieve business objectives as no business can Committee of the Company, the Management Committee be successful without taking some risk.
They can thus provide of F&C, the Audit and Compliance Committees of both the reasonable but not absolute assurance against material Company and F&C and through them to the boards of F&C mis-statement or loss.
and the Company, and to other parties, as necessary or Annual Report & Accounts 2004 43 Corporate Governance Report continued appropriate, details of known, material control weaknesses mis-selling, loss of key staff, failure to treat customers fairly, or significant risks and agreed actions to eliminate those failure to maintain adequate controls against money laundering, weaknesses or mitigate the risks.
Within F&C, its Management the inappropriate handling of customer complaints, loss of Committee acts similarly to the Executive Committee.
support among Independent Financial Advisers, poor investment markets, unsatisfactory investment returns, poor The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups staff satisfaction and morale, particularly as a consequence of systems of internal controls during the year.
This review mergers or acquisitions, and a range of significant risks that covered all controls, including financial, operational, compliance could occur due to the businesss failure to manage its direct and risk management.
This is primarily achieved by the and indirect environmental impacts.
Companys Audit and Compliance Committee periodically The Board has reviewed and updated the process for receiving and reviewing reports from the compliance and identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting internal audit functions within both core businesses.
On an the business and the policies and procedures by which annual basis, the Companys Audit and Compliance Committee these risks are managed.
meets specifically to review annual assessments from the compliance, internal audit and risk management functions Information and communication before recommending to the Board the adoption of the Members of executive management participate in an annual Internal Controls statement.
strategic review that considers overall business direction and its financial implications.
Individual business units prepare Key elements of the Groups systems of internal controls annual budgets and business plans that provide a basis against are as follows: which actual results can be benchmarked.
Assets, liabilities, Control environment investments and other relevant criteria are also monitored.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business Progress against plans is actively monitored and supported conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its by regular forecasts, which, together with actual results, operations.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures for are consolidated and presented to the Board for discussion the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the on a regular basis.
required standards of business conduct.
Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is continually monitored, risks are identified in a timely The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for manner, their financial implications assessed, control planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective operations in order to achieve Group objectives.
The structure actions agreed and implemented.
is designed to provide clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups business and embraces whistleRisk management policy blowing procedures to enable staff to raise concerns in The aim of the Groups risk management policy is To manage confidence.
Operational responsibility rests with the Group responsibly and proactively the significant business, including CEO and is devolved through an executive structure with SEE risks, that have the potential to impact the Groups clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members current business operations, while defining and accepting an of Group management are, therefore, accountable for the appropriate level of risk that will allow the Groups two core operation of the systems of internal controls within the businesses to flourish.
The Company aims to manage risk in a manner that will As statements covering the system of internal controls provide sustainable value by focusing on those matters within F&C and its subsidiaries can be found in F&Cs that may impact or thwart the achievement of the Groups annual report and accounts, the remainder of this business objectives.
statement focuses on the system of internal controls within the Groups core life and pensions business.
Full details The Company believes that effective risk management should of the F&C Group, including its corporate governance, be part of the Groups behavioural culture, a state of mind can be viewed and or downloaded at www.
com whereby all employees consider their day-to-day work processes and identify new or existing activities that will Risk identification increase the likelihood of achieving the many long-term Members of executive management are responsible for business objectives at an acceptable level of risk.
The process identifying and evaluating the key risks facing their areas of strategic and business planning is subject to the same of the business.
These risks, which may be associated with principles as day-to-day processes and adopts the concept of a variety of internal or external factors including regulatory risk management as part of its overall approach.
To reinforce requirements, control breakdowns, disruption in information the importance of risk management, senior managers now systems, competition and natural catastrophe, are subject to have a performance requirement that relates to risk regular assessment within the business and are formally management generally and, more particularly, to treating assessed at least quarterly.
Further, the operational life and customers fairly.
The latter requirement has for several years pensions subsidiary boards and the Board of the Company been embraced by the Companys corporate values but has receive a monthly management information pack that identifies been made specific to individual managers to reflect its the risks facing the business and the mitigating actions being importance in the current regulatory environment.
The Group Risk Officer reports to the Board quarterly on the results of the review of key risks carried out by executive Control procedures management.
Internal audit reports to the Audit and The business has implemented accounting policies, financial Compliance Committee half yearly on the effectiveness reporting processes and internal control procedures designed of the controls that exist to manage the key risks.
to safeguard policyholders investments and the Groups The significant strategic, financial, operational and project risks, assets.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation economic, business, legal and SEE risks facing the business of duties and reviews by management.
A process of selfhave been evaluated and, so far as possible, managed by this assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established process.
Examples of these could include failure to manage within the business that provides for a documented and capital adequacy, failure to adhere to regulations of the FSA, auditable trail of responsibility and accountability.
44 Friends Provident Corporate Governance Report continued Monitoring and corrective action The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews annually the Group Risk monitors and reports the outcome of the performance, independence, competence and cost of auditors.
self-assessment process to successive layers of If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of management and ultimately quarterly to the Board.
audit services may be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet The controls identified as part of the self-assessment process the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing are reviewed by the internal audit function for accuracy, will depend on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading completeness and effectiveness.
Such an exercise, carried out during 2003 4, are independently monitored for timely completion and resulted in a recommendation to appoint KPMG Audit Plc reviewed by the Audit and Compliance Committee.
as the Companys auditors being accepted by the Board in January 2004 and by shareholders at the AGM that year.
Independence of external auditors The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the Future developments independence, integrity, competence and professionalism The Board believes that the controls in place during 2004 have of the Groups external auditors and has satisfied itself that been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, during the year no aspect of their work was impaired on these it continues to be committed to the highest standards of grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence governance and business conduct and will ensure that those and balancing that with the best interests of the Company, the controls continue to develop in line with the requirements Board has also considered the policy for awarding audit-related of the business, the FSA and leading practice.
Any necessary and or non-audit work to the Groups external auditors.
changes will be made so as to continue to ensure that the Groups customers are treated fairly and to continue to The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group protect the interests of the Companys shareholders.
companys external auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money.
The contractor must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Company and For the Board the Group.
In particular, however, auditors of the Company R. G. Ellis are not permitted to: Company Secretary perform work that involves the valuation of an asset 17 March 2005 or liability incorporated into any of the Companys financial statements: act as secondees to positions of influence with the Group: design and implement systems that have financial implications: provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be given on managements assessment of accounting controls and financial systems: provide litigation support services: provide corporate finance services except as noted below : and advise on senior executives remuneration.
The external auditors have undertaken corporate finance work from time to time regarding the introduction of potential investment to funds managed by ISIS Equity Partners plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of F&C.
The fees payable for this work have not been borne by a group company.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform audit-related and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit and Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
In particular, the Audit and Compliance Committee will give careful consideration before appointing the auditors to perform work in the areas of outsourcing and partnering, advice on tax structuring and acquisition due diligence.
The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related and non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value of audit-related and non-audit work awarded to auditors does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee is required.
