The Audit and Compliance Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference: The Committee provides on 6 January 2004 and Adrian Montague joined the Committee the principal medium through which the Board receives on 28 October 2004.
The Board is satisfied that at least one independent assurance on the Groups financial reporting member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial process, internal controls and adherence to policies and experience, a position that should continue throughout 2005. procedures.
It is through this medium that the Board also Committee meetings are normally attended by the external seeks assurance on Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE auditors, the Group CEO, who is also responsible for internal matters.
The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set audit in the life and pensions business, the F&C finance director out in Section G of its detailed terms of reference which, inter and or company secretary, the Group finance director, and the alia, include the requirements of Combined Code provisions heads of the finance, actuarial services, risk management C. 3.2 main role and responsibilities, C. 3.4 whistleblowing, and compliance and internal audit functions.
During 2004 the C. 3.5 monitoring and review of internal audit, C. 3.6 Committee met formally nine times and, save for Alison appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Carnwath, Ray King and Lord MacGregor being unable to auditors and C. 3.7 provision of non-audit services and auditor attend one meeting each, all members were present at objectivity and independence.
The role and responsibilities every meeting they were eligible to attend.
and the work of the Committee can best be understood Activities and work of the Committee: The Committee by reference to its written terms of reference, which are discharges its normal responsibilities, as allocated by its terms published on the Companys website and can be obtained of reference, within a schedule of six meetings.
Four of those on written request to the Secretary at the Companys meetings, two at the beginning of each half-year, deal with registered office.
matters of governance for example, compliance with the The Committee has again reviewed its terms of reference Combined Code, the Financial Services and Markets Act, the and its effectiveness, the latter by reference to an externally effectiveness of internal controls and the external auditors and designed self-assessment questionnaire that focused on the financial results for the half-year and full year.
The latter the behaviours of the Committee and its processes.
The two meetings also deal with the new business results, leaving Chairman of the Committee summarised the overall results the fifth and sixth of the scheduled meetings to deal with new and identified the key findings.
The individual questionnaire business results for the first and third calendar quarters.
Other responses enabled the Chairman of the Committee to obtain meetings of the Committee dealt with ad hoc internal control an overview of each members perception of the effectiveness issues that emerged during the year that the Board asked the of the Committee.
The overall summary was then discussed Committee to investigate.
Within this schedule, the Committee by the Committee in January 2005, when a collective fulfils its main role and responsibilities and, as a consequence, assessment of its effectiveness was reached.
That review can confirm that it has met all the requirements of the identified the issues requiring more work and or focus during Combined Code in so far as they relate to the work of audit the year ahead.
They mainly focus around assurances to be committees during 2004 and up to the date of this report.
provided under the new risk management framework in place from end-2004 in order to give a group perspective to the Board of the Company.
Membership and attendance: The current members of the Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are Christopher Jemmett chairman, Alison Carnwath, For the Board Ray King, Lord MacGregor and Adrian Montague.
Roger Morton C. M. Jemmett was a member of the Committee until 20 May 2004.
Ray King, Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee a chartered accountant, became a member of the Committee 17 March 2005 46 Friends Provident
