The Nomination Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference: The Committee leads the consultants and reporting to the Board.
Before undertaking process, and makes recommendations to the Board, for all this search, the Committee agreed with the Board the skills new Board appointments.
It ensures the existence of a formal, and experience the successful candidate should possess.
rigorous and transparent procedure, the aim of which is to As the search had the potential to lead to the appointment ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the of a new chairman on the retirement in May 2005 of Group and the balance of the Board.
David Newbigging, the Committee prepared a detailed briefing note that covered this prospect and received the The Terms of Reference of the Committee, which explain the approval of the Board to its use by the appointed independent purpose, delegated authority and duties of the Committee, search consultants.
have been published on the Companys website and can be obtained on written request to the Company Secretary.
The Committee has again reviewed the standard letter of Through its agenda, the Committee effectively dealt with appointment used for the non-executive directors contract the duties delegated to it by its terms of reference.
for services to ensure that it continues to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
The standard letter Membership and attendance: Throughout 2004, Lord of appointment is available on the Companys website MacGregor, an independent director, chaired the Committee and the individual terms and conditions of appointment of and its other members were David Newbigging, Chairman of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal the Board, and Lady Judge, Senior Independent Director.
The business hours at the Companys registered office by Group Chief Executive attended when required, by invitation.
During the year, the Committee met formally on four occasions.
The Committee has assessed whether each independent However, none of the many meetings when the Committee director is fulfilling his or her duties: confirmed the time interviewed prospective candidates for board membership, required of non-executive directors for the fulfilment of referred to below, was regarded as a formal meeting of the their duties: and made recommendations to the Board as Committee.
Every member attended each meeting of the to the independence of directors and their suitability for Committee.
For the entirety of 2004, and up to the date of re-election as directors.
this report, the Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code in so far as they related to the work Finally, the Committee reviewed an early draft of the notice of nomination committees.
to shareholders relating to the 2005 AGM to ensure its appropriateness as regards those matters to be disclosed Activities and work of the Committee: During the year, that could be regarded as within the Committees remit, using different external, independent search consultants, the for example, the biographical details of directors and Committee completed two searches for independent, nontheir independence.
The result of the first search, which was largely conducted in 2003, was reported last year when Ray King joined the Board on 6 January 2004.
That appointment completed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience being sought around the Board table at that time.
A successful conclusion to the second search was reached For the Board when Adrian Montague joined the Board on 27 October 2004.
The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market The search process involved members of the Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee interviewing a number of candidates identified by the search 17 March 2005 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47
