HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 3:47 pm Page 54 Corporate Governance Report Following last years dry run, the provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance are now fully applicable to this Annual Report and Accounts and a further full review has been carried out.
Every vote counts The Combined Code Listening to shareholders 54 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 3:47 pm Page 55 1.
The Combined Code on Corporate of any shareholder concerns that cannot Deputy Chairman, was also appointed to the Governance be resolved through the routine mechanisms role of Senior Independent Director.
As Senior This Corporate Governance Report explains for investor communication.
Independent Director, Sir Ron will, as necessary, key features of the Companys governance lead meetings of the independent Non-executive structure, how it applies the principles in the 2.
Directors Directors without the Executive Directors revised Combined Code or Corporate Brief biographical details of current Directors and or the Chairman being present : be available Governance the Code, and the extent to are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Kate Nealon to meet with shareholders, to understand their which the Company has complied with the and David Shearer were appointed Directors concerns and in the event that contacts with provisions or requirements of the Code.
of the Company with effect from 23 March the Chairman and or Chief Executive are 2004 and, in accordance with the Companys inappropriate or have failed to present these The guiding principle of comply or explain Articles of Association, were re-elected by views to the Board as a whole: and to lead the that was stressed in Sir Derek Higgs report shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
Sir Bob Reid performance evaluation of the Chairman.
is now enshrined in the Preamble to the and Louis Sherwood retired at the conclusion Code.
Each of the provisions set out in the of the Companys Annual General Meeting on In accordance with the Companys Articles Code has been reviewed.
Philip Yea resigned from the of Association, which provide for all Directors steps have been taken to ensure that the Company with effect from 30 June 2004, to stand for re-election at intervals of no Company is in compliance with all of those following his appointment as Chief Executive more than three years, Colin Matthew, provisions.
As at the date of this Report the of 3i plc.
Mike Ellis retired as a Director on Charles Dunstone, Tony Hobson and Company complies with all of the provisions 31 December 2004.
Mark Tucker was Dennis Stevenson, will retire by rotation, of the Code, save the requirement in Code appointed as a Director on 30 April 2004. and will each seek re-election by shareholders, Provision D. 1.1 that the Senior Independent at the 2005 AGM.
The Chairman is pleased Director should attend meetings with a range Having served since November 1995 on the to confirm, following formal performance of shareholders.
Whilst the Senior Boards of Bank of Scotland and subsequently evaluations, that the performance of both Independent Director has attended various the Company, John Maclean will retire at the Charles and Tony continues to be effective, briefings and other meetings with analysts conclusion of the Companys Annual General and they continue to demonstrate and other representatives of institutional Meeting on 27 April 2005 and will not seek commitment in their respective roles as investors in 2004, he has not undertaken re-election by shareholders.
John has been Non-executive Directors.
The Deputy a programme of meetings with individual and continues to be a fully effective member Chairman confirms, following formal shareholders, as this has not been of the Board, but his retirement from the performance evaluation, that the performance considered necessary.
Board is in line with the Companys policy of the Chairman continues to be effective, in relation to the tenure of Non-executive and that the Chairman continues to The Company has a comprehensive Directors.
That policy, informed by the demonstrate commitment to his role.
programme of meetings and dialogue with provisions of the Code that deal with the As announced by the Company on institutional investors.
The views of investors independence of Non-executive Directors, 28 February, the Company has invited expressed through this dialogue, and through recognises that, in almost all cases, Dennis Stevenson, to serve a further term the Annual Audit of Investor Opinion referred Non-executive Directors will stand down from as Chairman following expiry of his current to in more detail on page 58, are the Board no later than the ninth anniversary appointment, on 30 June 2005.
Dennis has communicated to the Board as a whole, of their first election by shareholders.
accepted that invitation and, subject to his so that all Directors can develop a balanced re-election being approved by shareholders The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are understanding of the issues and concerns at the 2005 AGM, will therefore serve separate and there is a clear, written division of major shareholders.
Feedback from a as Chairman for a further three years, of responsibilities between those roles.
There number of shareholders suggests that these commencing on 1 July 2005. is also a Non-executive Deputy Chairman arrangements for communication between Sir Ron Garrick whose role is also separately the Company and its shareholders are Mark Tucker, having been appointed a defined.
In addition to the Chairman, the Director on 30 April 2004 will also present considered to be satisfactory and effective, Board comprised, as at 31 December 2004, himself for election in accordance with the and that regular or routine meetings between seven Executive Directors and eight NonArticles of Association.
shareholders and the Senior Independent executive Directors.
All of the Non-executive Director are not considered necessary.
Directors are considered by the Board to In accordance with Principle A5 of the Code, be independent.
Following the retirement from Kate Nealon and David Shearer, as newly The Senior Independent Director is, of the Board of Sir Bob Reid at the 2004 AGM, appointed Directors were provided during course, always available to meet shareholders Sir Ron Garrick, the Companys Non-executive 2004 with a full, formal and tailored on request, to ensure that the Board is aware Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 55 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 3:47 pm Page 56 Corporate Governance Report continued programme of induction, to familiarise them reviews its effectiveness, including a review the Chairman and individual Directors, with the Groups businesses: the risks and of financial, operational, compliance and risk together with collective discussion at a meeting of the full Board - supplemented, strategic challenges those businesses face: management controls.
The implementation in alternate years, by detailed questionnaires, and the economic, competition, legal and and maintenance of the risk management and completed by all Directors.
Actions are agreed regulatory environments in which they operate.
internal control systems are the responsibility to deal with issues raised as a result of this In addition, a programme of strategic and of the Executive Directors and other senior evaluation process.
In 2004, for example, other business reviews, together with other management.
The system is designed to actions were implemented to facilitate greater training provided during the year, ensures that manage the risk of failure to achieve business challenge by Non-executive Directors, all Directors continually update their skills: their objectives, and provide reasonable assurance particularly in respect of strategic issues, knowledge and familiarity with the Groups against material misstatement or loss.
and to give additional emphasis to succession businesses: and their awareness of sector, Until 31 December 2004, the Group planning in relation to the most senior risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other management roles.
Management Board was the senior executive developments.
Its role primarily The performance of individual executive Particulars of Directors remuneration and consisted of providing advice and support to Directors is appraised annually by the interests in shares of the Company are given the Chief Executive in relation to the discharge Chief Executive, to whom they report.
in the Report of the Board in relation to of his delegated responsibilities concerning The performance of the Chairman is reviewed Remuneration Policy and Practice the the development of strategy and management by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Directors Remuneration Report on of the Group, with particular reference to Deputy Chairman, taking into account the pages 60 to 79. cross-Divisional or Groupwide issues, including views of the executive Directors.
A meeting monitoring the risk management practices was held in November 2004 under the The Company Secretary is an employee, approved and adopted by individual business Chairmanship of Sir Ron Garrick to carry but not a Director, of the Company.
Information about these mechanisms out this review.
The outcome of this meeting and the Groups compliance with Internal 3.
The Board was confirmed to the Chairman by the Deputy Control: Guidance for Directors on the The Board meets regularly to determine the Chairman.
Individual Non-executive Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance strategic direction of the Group and to review performance is kept under continuous review is set out in the Financial Review and Risk operating, financial and risk performance.
by the Chairman and by the Nomination Management Report on pages 36 to 46.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved Committee.
The performance review to the Board which includes approval of the of the Chief Executive is conducted by the With effect from 1 January 2005, the Group Groups annual Business Plan that defines Chairman, taking into account the views Management Board was superseded by the operating and strategic objectives of the of other Directors.
the HBOS Executive Committee, whose Group and the risk framework within which membership reflects internal organisational 4.
Committees of the Board the Group will operate : Group policies and changes that took place with effect from The terms of reference of the principal standards on financial and non-financial risks: the end of 2004, including the appointment Committees of the Board Audit, significant transactions, above defined limits: of the new Group Risk Director.
Remuneration and Nomination are available the commencement of significant new on the Companys website.
Those terms business activities: and the scope of In addition to two formal meetings of the Board of reference are reviewed at least annually.
delegations to Board Committees, subsidiary held solely to authorise release of the Membership of the Committees of the Board boards and executive management of Companys preliminary and interim results, is intended to make best use of the skills the Group.
The executive management following consideration of those results by the and experience of Non-executive Directors, of the Group is responsible to the Board Audit Committee and the full Board which are in particular, and to minimise to the extent for developing strategy: for the profitability discounted for this purpose there were ten practicable unnecessary overlap and and overall performance of the Group: Board meetings during 2004 at which all duplication of membership.
Given their and for managing the Groups businesses Directors were present, except for apologies respective roles and responsibilities, however, in accordance with the Group Business Plan, from Charles Dunstone, James Crosby, Brian at least some overlap between the and the policies, standards and risk appetite Ivory and John Maclean, on one occasion each.
Memberships of the Remuneration and defined by the Board.
Details of the full list Nomination Committees is considered The Company has established a two year of matters reserved to the Board can be evaluation programme in respect of the desirable.
The work carried out by the Audit found on the Companys website.
performance of the Board and its principal and Nomination Committees in discharging The Board has overall responsibility for the committees.
This programme includes their responsibilities is summarised opposite.
Groups system of internal control and annually in-depth one-to-one discussions between The work carried out by the Remuneration 56 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 3:47 pm Page 57 Committee is described within the Directors the non-audit services provided to the Group relationship at work over a complete annual Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 79. by the external auditors and monitored the cycle, rather than in 2005, immediately after independence of the auditors.
Audit Committee Tony Hobson Chairman Both the Board and the external auditors have The Audit Committee has therefore decided John Maclean safeguards in place to prevent the auditors to defer the tender until 2006, with any change Coline McConville appointed 27 April 2004 independence and objectivity being to be effective for the 2007 audit: but also to Kate Nealon appointed 27 April 2004 compromised.
The Audit Committee maintains continue with the annual in-depth reviews Sir Bob Reid retired 27 April 2004 a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of of the external auditors performance in all Louis Sherwood retired 27 April 2004 auditors for non-audit services.
This policy sets years where there is no tender.
These in-depth out the nature of work the external auditors reviews are themselves in excess of the best This Committee consists entirely of Nonmay not undertake.
For those services that are practice recommendations of the Code and executive Directors, and is chaired by Tony deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry The Smith Guidance appended to the Code.
Hobson, who has significant recent and relevant out, the policy sets out the approval process financial experience.
It is supported by Risk Nomination Committee that must be followed for each type of Control Committees for each Division which Sir Ron Garrick Chairman assignment which, above defined limits, generally comprise at least two independent Dennis Stevenson requires that potential instructions in respect James Crosby Non-executive Directors and an Executive of defined non-audit services be subject to a Brian Ivory Director independent of that Division.
The Terms competitive tendering process.
Each year the Coline McConville of Reference of the Audit Committee include all Audit Committee establishes a limit on the fees Sir Bob Reid retired 27 April 2004 matters indicated by the Code.
The Company that can be paid to the external auditors in Philip Yea resigned 30 June 2004 Secretary or his nominated Deputy acts as respect of non-audit services and monitors Secretary to the Committee.
quarterly the amounts paid to the auditors The Company Secretary acts as Secretary in this regard.
For the purposes of this to the Committee.
During 2004 the Committee met eight times monitoring, the ICAEW classifications have with all members present with the exception of The Committee has met on three occasions been adopted in this years accounts on page Sir Bob Reid apologies for one meeting.
In during the past twelve months with all 91.
The external auditors also report regularly those meetings, as well as in seperate meetings members present, except for apologies from to the Committee on the actions that they with Executive Directors and management, and Dennis Stevenson and Brian Ivory on one have taken to comply with professional and privately with both the external and internal occasion each.
The Committee leads the regulatory requirements and current best auditors, the Committee reviewed: process for making appointments to the practice in order to maintain their Board: ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and advised the Board on the Groups independence.
This includes the rotation and transparent procedure for the appointment interim and annual financial statements, its of key members of the audit team.
of new Directors to the Board: reviews the accounting policies and on the control of its Since its formation in 2001, the Company has composition of the Board through a full financial and business risks, the nature and stated that an audit tender process would be evaluation of the skills, knowledge and scope of the work to be performed by the undertaken every five years, commencing in experience of Directors: and ensures plans external and internal auditors, and the results 2005.
This policy was adopted because the are in place for orderly succession for of this audit work and of the response of Board believed, and continues to believe, that appointments to the Board, and to other management: the interests of shareholders are best served senior executive management positions.
the activities, resources, organisational by reselecting auditors by means of a tender Responsibility for making senior executive structure and operational effectiveness process undertaken at intervals of around five appointments below Board level is, however, of the internal audit function: years, giving an opportunity for objective vested in the Chief Executive.
With assistance the effectiveness of the Groups system reassessment of the incumbent auditors from external search and recruitment of internal control including financial, as well as alternative audit firms.
consultants, the Committee considers and operational, compliance and risk lists potential candidates for appointment management, as well as the However, following the appointment of Mark as Non-executive Directors of the Company, appropriateness and effectiveness Tucker as Group Finance Director in October and ensures that list is updated and refreshed.
of whistleblowing procedures: 2004, the Committee believes that it would, and made recommendations on the in fact, be more appropriate for any tender During 2004, the Committee instructed appointment and remuneration of the process to take place after the new Group external search consultants to provide advice external auditors and monitored the Finance Director has had the opportunity to and support in relation to the appointment of performance of the auditors: and observe and experience the present auditor appropriate Non-executive Directors, to fill the Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 57 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 3:47 pm Page 58 Corporate Governance Report continued vacancies created on the retirements of There is also an Annual Audit of Investor Sir Bob Reid and Louis Sherwood.
Detailed Opinion, undertaken on behalf of the Board, role specifications were drawn up, informed which takes the form of structured interviews by the Chairmans and the Committees with individual investors through an independent assessment of the mix of skills, knowledge external adviser.
The 2004 report gathered and experience of the continuing Directors, opinion on strategy, operational performance, and the requirements of the Board.
Interviews corporate governance and management were conducted with a range of potential capability from investors in the UK, Europe and candidates, by the external search North America.
The non-attributable opinions, consultants, members of the Committee, which were subsequently reported to the and other Directors.
As a result of this Board, give the Board direct access to investor process, the Committee recommended feedback.
The Annual Audit complements to the Board, and the Board agreed, that monthly reports to the Board in relation to Kate Nealon and David Shearer be appointed market and investor sentiment and opinion.
to the Board as Non-executive Directors The Company Secretary, primarily through with effect from March 2004.
The anticipated the Shareholder Services team, oversees time commitments for their roles have been communications with private shareholders.
discussed and agreed with Kate and David, Each year shareholders receive the Annual and both have confirmed that they can and Review and Summary Financial Statement will make sufficient time available to carry or, at their choice, the Annual Report and out their responsibilities.
The Companys Annual General Meeting takes place at different UK locations 5.
Relations with Shareholders each year, to give more shareholders the The Company directs its communications with opportunity to attend, hear about and shareholders through two principal channels.
question the Groups performance and Firstly, the Investor Relations team has effective the Directors stewardship of their Company.
day-to-day primary responsibility for managing The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration communications with institutional shareholders and Nomination Committees attend the through a combination of briefings to analysts meeting, along with other Directors, and are and institutional shareholders, both at the available to answer shareholders questions interim and year end results: site visits: and on the activities of their own Committees.
individual discussions with Board Members and key members of the management team.
During the year shareholders can receive Briefings on topics of specific interest have also up-to-date information through the Companys been arranged, for example, an IID seminar in website, www.
This provides April 2004, and a briefing in respect of the share price information, financial results, copies implications for the Company of the adoption of of presentations to analysts and answers to IFRS, carried out in December 2004.
A telephone dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that helpline is available on 0870 702 0102 the Companys strategy is understood and that providing a contact point for shareholders on any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
issues such as dividends and announcements.
58 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
