BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 18 18 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement British American Tobacco has continued its commitment Provisions, unless otherwise expressly stated, are to those of to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, the Code.
which we define as the system by which an organisation is Directors directed and controlled from within at its most senior levels, The Board to enable it to achieve its business objectives in a manner The Code requires that each company be headed by an which is responsible and in accordance with high standards effective board which is collectively responsible for its success.
of probity, transparency and accountability.
A sophisticated Supporting Principles describe the boards role to provide and effective corporate governance framework will be directed entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and towards enhancing the performance of a companys business, effective controls that allow risk to be assessed and managed.
to the benefit of its shareholders, employees, business partners They require the board to set the companys strategic aims and other stakeholders.
and its values, ensuring that obligations to shareholders are This is the basis upon which we judge ourselves and, while we met.
All directors must take decisions objectively in the interests acknowledge the importance of external governance codes of the company, and non-executive directors have a particular in guiding corporate practice, we see these as overlays to our role in developing strategy, scrutinising management own internal standards, as codified in our Standards of Business performance and ensuring the integrity of financial Conduct, which are kept under continual review in order to information and systems of risk management.
ensure that they remain at the forefront of best business Your Company currently has a Board of 11 Directors: practice.
Every Group company and every employee worldwide the Chairman, Jan du Plessis, three Executive Directors is expected to live up to them.
In 2003, we published our Paul Adams, Chief Executive, Antonio Monteiro fide Castro, Statement of Business Principles, which is designed to help Chief Operating officer and Paul Rayner, Finance Director meet the expectations, sometimes conicting, placed on us and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Their names and brief by our various stakeholders.
Both documents, together with biographies appear on page 29 of the Annual Review.
The the terms of reference of the Board Committees referred to Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Kenneth Clarke, is the below, are available from the Company Secretary and through Senior Independent Director called for in the Code.
the corporate governance section of our website, bat.
com Martin Broughton was Chairman until 30 June 2004, The principal governance rules applying to UK companies when he retired from the Board.
Jan du Plessis replaced listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in him as Chairman on 1 July 2004, having resigned from the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
A revised his position with Compagnie Financire Richemont SA Combined Code the Code was adopted by the Financial which, through its interest in R & R Holdings S. A. is a major Reporting Council in July 2003.
The Code, which derives shareholder in British American Tobacco.
Harald Einsmann from a review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive and William Owens both stood down from the Board in directors by Sir Derek Higgs and a review of audit committees 2004, and K S Wong died on 16 February 2005.
Piet Beyers, by a group led by Sir Robert Smith, replaces the Combined Code Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele were appointed as issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors on 22 June 2004, 1 January 2005 in June 1998.
It took effect for accounting periods beginning and 28 February 2005 respectively.
In accordance with the on or after 1 November 2003.
References in this statement Code and the Companys articles of association, they will to the Code are, unless otherwise stated, to the revised Code be proposed for reappointment at the Companys Annual adopted in July 2003.
Although we were not formally required to do so, we took The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the success of the approach for 2003 that it was appropriate to report to the Group and for its overall strategic direction and governance.
shareholders as though the new provisions were already in Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make place.
For 2004, our formal obligation is to report on our decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual budget, compliance with the Code and we do so at the end of this dividends and major corporate activities.
It is also responsible statement.
for reviewing the Companys internal controls and governance The Code requires listed companies to report how its Main system and for approving its Standards of Business Conduct.
and Supporting Principles have been applied, giving sufficient The Board is scheduled to hold seven meetings in 2005. detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report, and to The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board state whether the Codes Provisions have been complied with.
to act as a single team by obtaining consensus at Board An explanation is required for any points of non-compliance.
meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will The headings in this statement, other than the final two, be taken by majority.
The agenda for Board meetings is set are taken from Section 1 of the Code: this applies to listed by the Chairman in consultation with the Deputy Chairman, companies and consists of 14 Main Principles, 21 Supporting the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
In addition Principles and 48 Provisions.
Section 2 applies to institutional to the Company Secretary, the General Counsel to the shareholders.
References in this statement to Principles and Company attends meetings of the Board.
The Board held six BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 19 British American Tobacco 19 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 scheduled meetings in 2004 and meetings also took place are presumed not to be independent because of the between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors shareholdings that they represent.
Neither Thys Visser nor without the Executive Directors present, and between the Piet Beyers sits on the Audit or Remuneration Committees, Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
whose members are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the period between August 2004 and January 2005, The Board delegates to the Management Board responsibility slightly less than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating comprised Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board subsidiaries of the policies and strategy which it sets, and for to be independent.
This was as a result of the unexpected creating the conditions for their successful day-to-day operation.
resignation of William Owens from the Board in August 2004 The Management Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and the time necessarily taken to conduct a rigorous search and its other members are the Finance Director, the Chief for his replacement pursuant to the requirements of the Operating officer and nine senior Group executives, whose Code.
Nevertheless, the Board is satisfied that it maintained names appear on page 29 of the Annual Review.
It is scheduled a sufficient degree of independence throughout this period to meet eight times in 2005.
The Board has also established effectively and properly to discharge its obligations under the four Board Committees, each with its own clear terms of Code, and the requisite number of independent Directors reference, and it has delegated responsibility for some aspects was restored with the appointments to the Board of Robert of Code matters to them.
The role of these Committees is Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele.
described in more detail below.
Although Jan du Plessis severed his connections with To assist the Board in its deliberations, the Management Compagnie Financire Richemont SA before becoming Board is invited to attend meetings of the Board from time to Chairman on 1 July 2004, he did not, on appointment, fully time, in particular when the Groups future strategy and annual meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The budgets are under discussion.
Board, however, considers that his appointment was in the Chairman and Chief Executive best interests of the Company and its shareholders, in light The Code requires a clear division of responsibilities between of his deep knowledge and understanding of the tobacco the running of the Board and executive responsibility for industry, his true independence of mind in contributing to running the business, such that no one person has unfettered the Board and his outstanding strategic and financial skills.
Rupert Pennant-Rea has been a member of the Board The Board meets this requirement by having clearly since April 1998.
Prior to that he was a director of B.
A. T dened roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Industries p. l. c. having been appointed to the Board of that The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, Company in November 1995.
He has therefore served for more ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for than nine years on the Board of the Groups ultimate holding ensuring that a clear business and financial strategy for company B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. having been the Companys the Group is formulated for recommendation to the Board.
In view of this, and notwithstanding An important aspect of his function is to ensure effective that he has less than nine years service as a Director of the communication with the Companys shareholders and Company, the Board has carefully considered whether his facilitate the productive contribution of the Non-Executive length of service might impact on his independence as a Directors in particular.
Non-Executive Director and is satisfied, in light of his continuing valuable contributions to the Board and its Committees, that Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives he remains independent.
It has, in any event, been agreed responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial that he will retire from the Board immediately following the objectives.
He is also responsible for stewardship of the Groups Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2006.
Consistent assets and, jointly with the Chairman, representation of the with its succession planning obligations, the Board has identied Group externally.
Robert Lerwill to take over from him as Chairman of the Audit Board balance and independence Committee during the course of 2005.
The Code requires a balance of executive and non-executive Appointments to the Board directors such that no individual or small group of individuals The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and can dominate the Boards decision taking.
The number and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, quality of the Non-Executive Directors on the Board, with which should be made on merit and against objective criteria.
their combination of diverse backgrounds and expertise, The Board has established the Nominations Committee for ensures that this Principle is met.
The appointments of Piet this purpose.
It is chaired by Jan du Plessis, having been chaired Beyers, Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele bring fresh by Martin Broughton prior to his retirement, and its remaining perspectives, as well as additional expertise and experience, membership comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee considers candidates for We consider that five of the seven Non-Executive Directors appointment to the Board and for promotion to the are independent: under the Code Thys Visser and Piet Beyers BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 20 20 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement continued Management Board.
The expectation is that a Non-Executive Performance evaluation Director will not normally be invited to stand for reappointment The Board conducts a critical evaluation of its activities on following his or her retirement by rotation if he or she has, an annual basis.
The Company Secretary conducts private at that time, served more than nine years on the Board.
The interviews with all Directors individually both Executive and Committee therefore at least annually reviews forthcoming Non-Executive to ascertain their views on the performance retirements and the need to identify candidates to ll vacancies of the Board and its Committees and then compiles a report for Non-Executive positions on the Board.
This process includes for the Deputy Chairman.
The report is presented first to an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for in the Non-Executive Directors and then to the entire Board.
those candidates to ensure continuing Board balance.
In addition, the Company Secretary collates the views of each Director on the individual performance of the other The appointments of Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele Directors and presents these to the Chairman, who then and of Jan du Plessis as Chairman were made in accordance holds discussions with all the individual Directors regarding with the Codes Principles.
There was a selection process their effectiveness.
The Chairman also discusses the that involved benchmarking and interviewing a number effectiveness and performance of Directors immediately of candidates, using the services of executive search rms before they make themselves available for reappointment.
specialising in board level recruitment.
As the Code stipulates The Remuneration Committee evaluates the effectiveness that a chairman should not chair meetings when it is dealing of the Chairman and the Chief Executive annually and the with his successor, the Senior Independent Director, Kenneth Chairmans performance is also appraised annually at a Clarke, chaired all meetings of the Nominations Committee meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior during the process to select the new Chairman.
Piet Beyers Independent Director, without the Chairman present.
was nominated by R & R Holdings S. A. and his appointment was reviewed and approved by the Nominations Committee.
In 2004, particular emphasis was placed on the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive against the Boards The Committee has also made recommendations to expectations of them, given that they were both recently the Board as to the Directors who are being put forward appointed.
The process in 2004 confirmed that all Directors for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on continued to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, 28 April 2005. including of time, to their roles.
The Notice for this years Information and professional development Annual General Meeting confirms that the performance of Directors receive induction on joining the Board, which the Directors being proposed for reappointment continues consists of at least two days briengs on all areas of the to be effective and that they continue to show commitment Companys business.
After a period on the Board, they are to their role.
given an opportunity to review the induction programme The Code requires that the performance and commitment of and raise questions on any areas in respect of which they any director being proposed for reappointment for a third term would like further information.
In addition, they have the of three years should be subject to a particularly rigorous opportunity to update their skills and knowledge on a regular review.
This was done in the case of Kenneth Clarke, who will basis, for example by further briengs on the business and by be proposed for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting visits to Company production sites.
They are also encouraged on 28 April 2005. to attend meetings of the Groups regional audit committees and take the opportunity to do so.
Reappointment In accordance with the Code, each new Non-Executive The Board and its Committees receive high quality, up-to-date Director is appointed for a specified term, being an initial information for review in good time ahead of each meeting and period to the next Annual General Meeting after appointment the Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, and, subject to reappointment at that meeting, for a further ensures good information ows within the Board and its period ending not later than the Annual General Meeting Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors and held three years thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment will senior management.
He is also responsible for advising the be subject to endorsement by the Board and the approval Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The requirement to submit Directors for reappointment at regular intervals is met by applying the Companys articles All Directors have access to the advice and services of the of association.
These require that at each Annual General Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them Meeting: 1 not less than one-third of the Directors who to take independent professional advice at the Companys are subject to retirement by rotation must retire: and 2 any expense should this be required.
Director has to retire who was not appointed at either of the BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 21 British American Tobacco 21 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 two previous Annual General Meetings and who has served The going concern statement required by the Code is set as a Director for more than two years since appointment or out on page 5 of the Directors report.
Internal control There is a general assumption on the part of the Board that The Company maintains a sound system of internal control Non-Executive Directors will not normally be invited to stand with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and for reappointment after serving nine years.
A Director who the Companys assets.
The Board reviews the effectiveness attains the age of 70 must retire at the Annual General of the system at least annually, covering all material controls Meeting following his 70th birthday.
This was the case including financial, operational and compliance controls and with Harald Einsmann, who retired in April 2004. risk management systems, and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
The Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing The following table shows the number of scheduled Board Authority, provides guidance for compliance with that part and Committee meetings held in 2004 and the number of the Code.
The statement below has been prepared in attended by their respective members.
Scheduled Board and Committee meetings held in 2004 Statement on internal control Board  CSR The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal Number held 64442 control for the Company and its subsidiaries and for reviewing Number attended the effectiveness of these controls.
The system is designed 1 M F Broughton 3 2 to manage risk that may impede the achievement of the J P du Plessis 6 4 Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate that K H Clarke 64442 risk and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, P N Adams 6 assurance against material misstatement or loss.
P A Rayner 6 A Monteiro fide Castro6 2 The Company uses audit committees at corporate, regional P E Beyers 3 2 1 3 and end market levels as the main vehicle to support the H Einsmann 2111 4 A M Llopis 64422 Board in monitoring risk and control.
This framework provides 5 W A Owens 2 111 a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing R L Pennant-Rea 64442 the significant risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries.
6 M H Visser 6 4 1 The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been K S Wong deceased 6433 in place throughout the year under review and up to the date Indicates not a member of that Committee.
The Groups regional audit committees Notes: 1 Martin Broughton retired on 30 June 2004. which are each chaired by an Executive Director focus on 2 Piet Beyers joined the Board on 22 June 2004 and the CSR Committee on 22 July 2004. risks and the control environment within each region and are 3 Harald Einsmann retired on 21 April 2004. in turn supported by end market or area audit committees.
4 Ana Maria Llopis joined the Remuneration Committee on 22 July 2004.
The regional audit committees reviews include consideration 5 William Owens retired on 31 August 2004. of the effectiveness of the process for identifying, evaluating 6 Thys Visser stood down from the CSR Committee on 22 July 2004. and managing the risks of the business and the assessments All serving Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2004. of internal control and business risks completed by operating Every Director withdrew from any meeting at which his or her own position was being considered.
The relevant external and internal auditors attend meetings of all audit committees and have discrete private Remuneration audiences at all of these levels at least once each year.
In Details of the Directors remuneration required to be addition, regional and end market management, along disclosed under the Combined Code, the Code and the with internal audit, supports the Board in its role of ensuring Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are set a sound control environment.
out in the Remuneration report on page 6.
The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has Accountability and audit completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the Financial reporting system of internal control in accordance with the guidance The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable of the Turnbull Report for the period since 1 January 2004 assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
Directors Report and Accounts, the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, interim reports, reports to Audit Committee and auditors regulators and price-sensitive announcements.
The Board The Boards obligation is to establish formal and transparent is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the arrangements for considering how it should apply the financial Directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an out on page 24.
BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 22 22 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement continued appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors, The Audit Committee has established a policy on the  LLP.
It meets this obligation through appointment of the auditors to perform non-audit services the Audit Committee, whose terms of reference, agreed by for the Group over and above the external audit and keeps the Board, are available on the website, bat.
com this issue under continual review.
It remains confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditors are not in The Audit Committee is chaired by Rupert Pennant-Rea and any way impaired by reason of this further work.
Moreover, comprises four other independent Non-Executive Directors: the Committee is satisfied that such work is best handled Robert Lerwill, Kenneth Clarke, Ana Maria Llopis and Sir by them either because of their knowledge of the Group or Nicholas Scheele.
K S Wong was also a member throughout because they have been awarded it through a competitive 2004.
Rupert Pennant-Rea and Robert Lerwill have the recent tendering process.
The amount of non-audit fees charged and relevant financial experience called for by the Code.
by the auditors is disclosed on page 34 note 1.
Robert Lerwill will assume Chairmanship of the Committee during the course of 2005.
The Company has in place a formal procedure by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review in financial and other matters commonly referred to as any activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any whistleblowing procedures.
Details of these arrangements information it requires from, and require the attendance at are set out in the Companys Standards of Business Conduct.
any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, The Audit Committee reviewed and approved this procedure and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request at the time it was implemented and remains satisfied that made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the it incorporates arrangements for the proportionate and Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or independent investigation of matters raised and for appropriate other independent professional advice and secure the attendance follow-up action.
of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders Activities of the Audit Committee The Company is required to have a dialogue with shareholders, As required by the Code, a summary of the main activities of based on the mutual understanding of objectives, and it is the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities during the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a 2004 is set out below.
satisfactory dialogue does take place.
The Audit Committee met four times during 2004, including The Boards primary shareholder contact is through the immediately before the Companys full year results were Chief Executive and Finance Director, but the Chairman published.
It monitored the integrity of the Companys and Chief Operating officer also maintain contact with financial statements including the full and half year results major shareholders in order to understand their issues and and all formal announcements relating to the Companys concerns.
Where appropriate, major institutional shareholders performance.
are consulted on significant changes to the structure of the During the course of the year, the Committee met regularly Directors remuneration.
For example, in 2004, the Remuneration with management and with the internal and external auditors Committees proposals to amend the British American Tobacco to review the effectiveness of internal controls and business Long Term Incentive Plan were the subject of detailed risk management and received reports from the Groups consultation with a number of institutional investors.
At least regional audit committees.
It has satisfied itself by means twice a year the Head of Investor Relations presents a report of these steps that proper and satisfactory internal control to the Board on the issues considered at meetings between systems remain in place to identify and contain business risks the Company and institutional shareholders.
In addition, the and that the Companys business, and that of its subsidiaries, Board receives regular reports on developments concerning is being conducted in a proper and economically sound manner.
the holdings of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
Induction programmes for new Directors will include visits to The Audit Committee also made recommendations to the Board institutional shareholders.
on the appointment, for approval by shareholders, of the Companys external auditors and approved their remuneration Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting and terms of engagement.
It kept under review the consistency The Annual General Meeting AGM is the principal opportunity of accounting policies applied across the Group and reviewed for the Board to meet a wide range of investors and for the the impact of the proposed International Financial Reporting Chairman to explain the Companys progress and receive Standards and the actions being taken by the Group for their questions from its owners, the shareholders.
BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 23 British American Tobacco 23 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 At the 2005 AGM on 28 April, the Company will again SustainAbility and the United Nations Environmental provide for the vote on each resolution to be by poll, using Programme ranked the Company fourth out of the top the VoteNow electronic voting system, rather than by 50 global reporters in its annual survey of Best Practice show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency and in Non-Financial Reporting for its 2002 03 Social Report, allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including in which this year Standard & Poors also examined links those cast by proxy.
The voting results are announced on between credit ratings and governance and disclosure of the same day through the Regulatory News Service and on non-financial risks.
The survey authors said that while our the Companys website, bat.
com inclusion might be controversial, our reporting on human rights and community development is world class.
Corporate Social Responsibility During 2003, the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR American Depositary Receipts Committee was established as evidence of the Companys The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its American commitment to social and environmental issues.
It is chaired Depositary Receipts ADRs on the American Stock Exchange.
by Kenneth Clarke, its other members being all of the NonNone of its securities are listed on any United States securities Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors attend meetings exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the by invitation but are not members.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the American Stock Exchange listing standards nor the The Committees role is to help identify and assess, with corporate governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of management, those significant social, environmental and 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, in the interests of reputational risks that might impair the Companys strategic good governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining objective to be recognised as a responsible company in a the principal differences and common areas between the controversial industry.
The Committee also evaluates the Companys corporate governance practices as explained adequacy of the Companys policies in this area and makes above and those that would be required if the Company recommendations for change.
The Companys Social Report were subject to those rules.
The statement can be found on for 2004 05 is expected to be published on bat.
com in late the corporate governance section of our website, bat.
Compliance The principles of CSR continue to be strongly embedded in The Board considers that this statement on how the Company the Group.
We have strengthened the governance dimension complies with the Code provides the information necessary through local and regional CSR committees, now working in to enable shareholders to evaluate how the Principles of the a uniform way overseen by the CSR Committee.
Stakeholder Code have been applied.
The Company has either complied engagement is very active and our companies in 35 countries with the Provisions of the Code throughout the year or else are now carrying out social reporting, with 15 Social Reports a full explanation has been provided in this statement where published in 2004.
All of the Groups Social Reports continue it has not.
The Board therefore considers that the Company to be measured, through rigorous independent review, against has satisfied its obligations under the Code.
the AA1000 Standard and the latest AA1000 Assurance Standard is being incrementally applied.
The significant focus in CSR governance this year is to monitor the adoption of the Statement of Business Principles across the Group.
During 2005, the focus will be on ensuring that all Group companies activities are well aligned with the Core Beliefs and the commitments they will certainly imply.
Our aim is to embed the principles of CSR into the day-to-day culture of all parts of our business.
The Company was selected for the 2005 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI World and its European equivalent, DJSI STOXX, our third year of inclusion.
Our subsidiary, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad, was also reselected for DJSI World.
