HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Governance, Regulation and Supervision Governance financial flows entering or leaving the country.
The supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries With the listings of its ordinary shares in London, where HSBC operates will determine to some degree Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the Holdings complies with the relevant requirements services and products that HSBC will be able to for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In offer in those markets and how HSBC structures the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial specific operations.
Services Authority: in Hong Kong, The Rules The Financial Services Authority FSA Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis.
In Exchange of Hong Kong Limited: in the US, where addition, each operating bank, finance company or the shares are traded in the form of ADSs, HSBC insurance operation within HSBC is regulated by Holdings shares are registered with the US local supervisors.
The primary regulatory authorities Securities and Exchange Commission and it is are those in the UK, Hong Kong and the US, the subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Groups principal areas of operation.
US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking the New York Stock Exchanges Listed Company Supervision issued a new capital adequacy Manual, in each case as applied to foreign private framework to replace the Basel Accord of 1988 in issuers.
In France and Bermuda HSBC Holdings is the form of a final Accord commonly known as subject to the listing rules of Euronext, Paris and the Basel II.
Details of how this will affect HSBC are Bermuda Stock Exchange applicable to companies set out on page 175. with secondary listings.
United Kingdom regulation and supervision A statement of HSBCs compliance with the code provisions of the Combined Code on corporate UK banking and financial services institutions are governance appended to the Listing Rules of the subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK Financial Services Authority and with the provisions statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act of Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing 2000 FSMA.
Other UK primary and secondary of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong banking legislation is derived from European Union Limited is set out in the Report of the Directors.
EU directives relating to banking, securities, investment and sales of personal financial services.
Regulation and Supervision The FSA is responsible for authorising and HSBCs operations throughout the world are supervising UK financial services institutions and regulated and supervised by approximately 467 regulates all HSBCs businesses in the UK which different central banks and regulatory authorities in require authorisation under FSMA.
This ranges from those jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, retail life and pensions business to custody, branch branches or subsidiaries.
HSBC estimates the cost of share dealing, and treasury and capital markets this regulation and supervision to be approximately activity.
In addition, from 31 October 2004 and US$500 million in 2004.
These authorities impose a 14 January 2005 respectively, mortgage business and variety of requirements and controls covering, inter general insurance business became regulated alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market activities.
HSBC Bank is HSBCs principal liquidity, governance standards, customer protection authorised institution in the UK.
for example, fair lending practices, product design, FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for and marketing and documentation standards, and authorisation for banks and financial services social responsibility obligations for example, antibusinesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting money laundering and anti-terrorist financing and, as applicable, consent requirements with measures.
In addition, a number of countries in regard to large individual exposures and large which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the controlled banks and financial institutions.
The rules FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, include restrictions on the opening of local offices, and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
Further branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking details on capital measurement are included in and non-banking activities that may be conducted by Capital Management on pages 176 to 177.
The those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: FSA has the right to object, on prudential grounds, to restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or persons who hold, or intend to hold, 10 per cent or regulations requiring a specified percentage of local more of the voting power of a financial institution.
ownership: and restrictions on investment and other 20 The regulatory framework of the UK financial to the other member states.
Implementation of the services system has traditionally been based on directive is dependent upon Switzerland, co-operation between the FSA and authorised Liechtenstein, San Marino and Andorra applying institutions.
The FSA monitors authorised equivalent measures.
institutions through ongoing supervision and the review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to Hong Kong regulation and supervision financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions periodically obtain independent reports, usually from of the Banking Ordinance of Hong Kong Chapter the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the 155 the Banking Ordinance, and to the powers, adequacy of internal control procedures and systems functions and duties ascribed by the Banking as well as procedures and systems governing records Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with the Monetary Authority.
The principal function HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs of the Monetary Authority is to promote the general adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They stability and effective working of the banking system also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating in Hong Kong.
The Monetary Authority is to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, responsible for supervising compliance with the including areas such as strategic and operating plans, provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
The Banking risk control, loan portfolio composition and Ordinance gives power to the Chief Executive of organisational changes, including succession Hong Kong to give directions to the Monetary planning.
Authority and the Financial Secretary with respect to UK depositors and investors are covered by the the exercise of their respective functions under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme which Banking Ordinance.
deals with deposits with authorised institutions in the The Monetary Authority has responsibility for UK, investment business and contracts of insurance.
authorising banks, and has discretion to attach Institutions authorised to accept deposits and conditions to its authorisation.
The Monetary conduct investment business are required to Authority requires that banks or their holding contribute to the funding of the scheme.
In the event companies file regular prudential returns, and holds of the insolvency of an authorised institution, regular discussions with the management of the depositors are entitled to receive 100 per cent of the banks to review their operations.
The Monetary first 2,000 US$3,900 of a claim plus 90 per cent Authority may also conduct on site examinations of of any further amount up to 33,000 US$63,800 banks, and in the case of banks incorporated in Hong the maximum amount payable being 31,700 Kong, of any local and overseas branches and US$61,300.
Payments under the scheme in respect subsidiaries.
The Monetary Authority requires all of investment business compensation are limited to authorised institutions to have adequate systems of 100 per cent of the first 30,000 US$58,000 of a internal control and requires the institutions external claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up to auditors, upon request, to report on those systems 20,000 US$38,700 the maximum amount and other matters such as the accuracy of payable being 48,000 US$92,800.
information provided to the Monetary Authority.
In The EU reached final agreement on a new addition, the Monetary Authority may from time to directive regarding the taxation of savings income on time conduct tripartite discussions with banks and 3 June 2003.
Under the directive, each member state, their external auditors.
other than Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg, will The Monetary Authority, which may deny the be required, beginning in 2005, to provide the tax acquisition of voting power of over 10 per cent in a authorities of each other member state with details of bank, and may attach conditions to its approval payments of interest or other similar income paid by thereof, can effectively control changes in the a person within its jurisdiction to individuals resident ownership and control of Hong Kong-incorporated in such other member state.
Beginning on the same financial institutions.
In addition, the Monetary date, Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg will impose Authority has the power to divest controlling a withholding tax on such income.
The withholding interests in a bank from a person if they are no tax rate will initially be 15 per cent, increasing to 20 longer deemed to be fit and proper, if they may per cent from 2008 and 35 per cent from 2011. otherwise threaten the interests of depositors or Subject to future conditions being met, Austria, potential depositors, or if they have contravened any Belgium, and Luxembourg may cease to apply the conditions specified by the Monetary Authority.
withholding tax and instead comply with the automatic exchange of information rules applicable 21 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Governance, Regulation and Supervision continued The Monetary Authority may revoke Company Act of 1956 the BHCA as a result of its authorisation in the event of an institution's ownership of HSBC Bank USA.
HSBC Bank USA is non-compliance with the provisions of the Banking a nationally-chartered commercial bank and a Ordinance.
These provisions require, among other member of the Federal Reserve System.
HSBC Bank things, the furnishing of accurate reports.
USA is the surviving institution of the 1 July 2004 merger of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank & The Banking Ordinance requires that banks Trust Delaware N. A. HSBC also owns Household submit to the Monetary Authority certain returns and Bank SB, N. A.
Household Bank, a nationally other information and establishes certain minimum chartered credit card bank which is also a member standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy of the Federal Reserve System.
Both HSBC Bank see below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on USA and Household Bank are subject to regulation, shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, supervision and examination by the OCC.
The unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the deposits of HSBC Bank USA and Household Bank bank and holdings of interests in land, with which are insured by the FDIC and both banks are subject banks must comply.
On 1 January 2004, Hong Kong fully implemented the capital HSBC formed a new company to hold all of its adequacy standards established by the Basel Accord North American operations, including these two in 1989.
The Banking Ordinance currently provides banks.
This company, called HSBC North America that banks incorporated in Hong Kong maintain a Holdings Inc. HNAH is also a bank holding capital adequacy ratio calculated as the ratio, company under the BHCA, by virtue of its expressed as a percentage, of its capital base to its ownership and control of HSBC Bank USA.
risk-weighted exposure of at least 8 per cent.
For The BHCA and the International Banking Act of banks with subsidiaries, the Monetary Authority is 1978 IBA impose certain limits and requirements empowered to require that the ratio be calculated on on the US activities and investments of HSBC, a consolidated basis, or on both consolidated and HNAH, and certain companies in which they hold unconsolidated bases.
If circumstances require, the direct or indirect investments.
HSBC is also a Monetary Authority is empowered to increase the qualifying foreign banking organisation under minimum capital adequacy ratio to up to 12 per cent Federal Reserve Board regulations, and as such, may for fully-licensed banks and 16 per cent for engage within the United States in certain limited deposit-taking companies and restricted-licence non-banking activities and hold certain investments banks, after consultation with the bank.
that would otherwise not be permissible under US The marketing of, dealing in and provision of law.
Prior to 13 March 2000, the BHCA generally advice and asset management services in relation to prohibited HSBC from acquiring, directly or securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong cent of the voting shares of any company engaged in Kong Chapter 571 the Securities and Futures the US in activities other than banking and certain Ordinance.
Entities engaging in activities regulated activities closely related to banking.
On that date by the Securities and Futures Ordinance are required HSBC became a financial holding company FHC to be licensed.
The Monetary Authority is the under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act GLBA primary regulator for banks involved in the securities amendments to the BHCA, enabling it to offer a business, while the Securities and Futures more complete line of financial products and Commission is the regulator for non-banking services.
Upon its formation, HNSH also registered entities.
HSBC and HNAHs ability to engage in expanded financial activities as FHCs depend upon US regulation and supervision HSBC and HNAH continuing to meet certain criteria set forth in the BHCA, including requirements that HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state its US depository institution subsidiaries, HSBC supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws Bank USA and Household Bank, be welland regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the capitalised and well-managed, and that such Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC and institutions have achieved at least a satisfactory the Office of the Comptroller of Currency OCC record in meeting community credit needs during govern many aspects of HSBCs US business.
their most recent examinations pursuant to the HSBC and its US operations are subject to Community Reinvestment Act.
These requirements supervision, regulation and examination by the also apply to Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A.
Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank in which HSBC and HNAH have a 20 per cent holding company under the US Bank Holding voting interest in equity capital and a 40 per cent 22 economic interest.
Each of these depository The USA Patriot Act Patriot Act signed into institutions achieved at least the required rating law in October 2001, imposes significant record during their most recent examinations.
In general keeping and customer identity requirements, under the BHCA, an FHC would be required, upon expanded the US federal governments powers to notice by the Federal Reserve Board, to enter into an freeze or confiscate assets and increases the agreement with the Federal Reserve Board to correct available penalties that may be assessed against any failure to comply with the requirements to financial institutions for failure to comply with maintain FHC status.
Until such deficiencies are obligations imposed on such institutions to detect, corrected, the Federal Reserve Board may impose prevent and report money laundering and terrorist limitations on the US activities of an FHC and financing.
Among other things, the Patriot Act depository institutions under its control.
If such requires the US Treasury Secretary to develop and deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal Reserve adopt final regulations with regard to the anti-money Board may require an FHC to divest its control of laundering compliance obligations of financial any subsidiary depository institution or to desist institutions a term which, for this purpose, includes from certain financial activities in the US.
insured US depository institutions, US branches and agencies of foreign banks, US broker-dealers and HSBC and HNAH are generally prohibited numerous other entities.
The US Treasury Secretary under the BHCA from acquiring, directly or delegated certain authority to a bureau of the US indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per Treasury Department known as the Financial Crimes cent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially Enforcement Network FinCEN.
all the assets of, or exercising control over, any US bank or bank holding company without the prior Many of the anti-money laundering compliance approval of the Federal Reserve Board.
requirements of the Patriot Act, as implemented by FinCEN, are generally consistent with the antiThe US is party to the 1988 Basel Capital money laundering compliance obligations previously Accord and US banking regulatory authorities have imposed on the then HSBC Bank USA and adopted risk-based capital requirements for US Household Bank under the Bank Secrecy Act which banks and bank holding companies that are generally was amended in certain respects by the Patriot Act consistent with the Accord.
In addition, US and applicable regulations.
These include regulatory authorities have adopted leverage capital requirements to adopt and implement an anti-money requirements that generally require US banks and laundering programme, report suspicious transactions bank holding companies to maintain a minimum and implement due diligence procedures for certain amount of capital in relation to their balance sheet correspondent and private banking accounts.
Certain assets measured on a non-risk weighted basis.
other specific requirements under the Patriot Act The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation involve new compliance obligations.
The passage of Improvement Act of 1991 provides for extensive the Patriot Act and other recent events have resulted in regulation of depository institutions such as HSBC heightened scrutiny of the Bank Secrecy Act and antiBank USA, Household Bank and Wells Fargo HSBC money laundering compliance by federal and state Trade Bank, N. A., including requiring federal bank examiners.
On 30 April 2003 the then HSBC banking regulators to take prompt corrective action Bank USA entered into a written agreement with the with respect to FDIC-insured banks that do not meet Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York minimum capital requirements.
State Banking Department to enhance its compliance with anti-money laundering requirements.
HSBC HSBC Bank USA, Household Bank and Wells Bank USA implemented certain improvements in its Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. like other compliance, reporting, and review systems and FDIC-insured banks, may be required to pay procedures to comply with this agreement.
When assessments to the FDIC for deposit insurance under HSBC Bank USA merged with HSBC Bank & Trust the FDICs Bank Insurance Fund.
Under the FDICs Delaware N. A. on 1 July 2004, the OCC made the risk-based system for setting deposit insurance merger conditional on HSBC Bank USAs continuing assessments, an institutions assessments vary compliance with the requirements of the written according to the level of capital an institution holds, agreement.
its deposit levels and other factors.
HSBCs US consumer finance operations are At 31 December 2004, HSBC Bank USA, also subject to extensive regulation in the US, and to Household Bank and Wells Fargo HSBC Trade laws relating to consumer protection: both in Bank, N. A. were each well-capitalised under Federal general, and in respect of so-called subprime Reserve Board regulations.
lending operations, which have been subject to 23 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Governance, Regulation and Supervision continued enhanced regulatory scrutiny : discrimination in HSBCs US credit insurance operations are extending credit: use of credit reports: privacy subject to regulatory supervision under the laws of matters: disclosure of credit terms: and correction of the states in which they operate.
They also are subject to regulations from state to state but generally cover licensing of and legislation that limit operations in certain insurance companies: premiums and loss rates: jurisdictions.
For example, limitations may be placed dividend restrictions: types of insurance that may be on the amount of interest or fees that a loan may sold: permissible investments: policy reserve bear, the amount that may be borrowed, the types of requirements: and insurance marketing practices.
actions that may be taken to collect or foreclose Certain US source payments to foreign persons upon delinquent loans or the information about a may be subject to US withholding tax unless the customer that may be shared.
HSBCs US consumer foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
A finance branch lending offices are generally licensed qualified intermediary is a financial intermediary in those jurisdictions in which they operate.
Such which is qualified under the Internal Revenue Code licences have limited terms but are renewable, and and has completed the Qualified Intermediary are revocable for cause.
Failure to comply with Withholding Agreement with the Internal Revenue applicable laws and regulations may limit the ability Service.
Various HSBC operations outside the US of these licensed lenders to collect or enforce loan are qualified intermediaries.
agreements made with consumers and may cause the consumer finance lending subsidiary to be liable for damages and penalties.
