Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Information, including monthly management New directors to the board are provided Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 accounts, is provided in a timely and regular with appropriate training and briefings and up to the date of this report, the board manner to directors for all meetings to enable which take into account their individual confirms that it fully complied with the them to exercise their judgement in the qualifications and experience.
All directors provisions of the Code of Best Practice set discharge of their duties.
All directors have receive, during their term of office, regular out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on access to the advice and services of the briefings on changes and developments in Corporate Governance issued in June 1998 Group Company Secretary who is responsible the Groups business and legislative and by the UK Listing Authority.
The board has for ensuring that board procedures and regulatory changes which are relevant to considered the impact of the new revised applicable rules are observed.
Combined Code issued in July 2003 which exist to enable the directors to obtain will apply to the Group for the 2004 2005 independent professional advice in respect During the year the board evaluated its financial year and believes that it is already of their duties.
performance and that of its committees substantially compliant with the 2003 and individual directors.
This was done by Combined Code and will make such There is a clear division of roles and way of a questionnaire which was completed adjustments as are necessary to ensure it responsibilities between the Chairman by each director to evaluate the boards can report full compliance with the new and Group Chief Executive Officer with the effectiveness and accountability.
The results code in its Annual Report and Accounts for Chairman being responsible for leadership of this exercise were then summarised to 2005.
This section on corporate governance of the board and ensuring effective the board by the Chairman.
The Chairmans together with the Remuneration Committee communication with shareholders and the performance was evaluated by the nonReport details how the Group has applied Chief Executive Officer being responsible executive directors led by the Senior the Combined Code and includes additional for leading and managing the business.
Independent Director who then provided disclosures, where appropriate, as a step There is a balance between non-executive the Chairman with the results of this towards compliance with the revised code.
and executive directors on the board such evaluation.
that there is a majority of independent Directors non-executives who provide a wide range The board manages the Group through board Directors and the board The Company of skills and experience to the board.
meetings and a number of committees, each is headed by an experienced board of Paul Zuckerman, the Deputy Chairman, of which has detailed terms of reference directors consisting of a non-executive is the Senior Independent Director.
The minutes of each Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, the exception of the Chairman, who was of the Committees are made available to three further executive directors and five executive Chairman until 31 July 2001, all directors and the board receives a verbal non-executive directors.
The board meets all the non-executive directors are update from each committees Chairman.
at least six times a year, half of those independent of management and considered meetings being held in the US.
During the by the board to be free from any business i Audit Committee year ended 31 March 2004 two additional or other relationships which could interfere The Committee comprises four independent board meetings were held to review and with the exercise of their independence.
The directors who approve the BrokerTec acquisition.
Biographies of each of the directors and served on the Committee during the year details of their membership of board and at the year end are: The board has a schedule of matters committees is given on page 18. specifically reserved to it for decision and Nicholas Cosh FCA approval which include, but are not Board nominations are recommended to Chairman limited, to: the board by the Nomination Committee Duncan Goldie-Morrison under its terms of reference.
In accordance appointed 20 November 2003 the Groups long term objectives and with the Combined Code and the Companys William Nabarro commercial strategy: articles of association all directors are Paul Zuckerman acquisitions, disposals and major subject to re-appointment by shareholders Donald Marshall investments: at the first opportunity following their did not stand for re-election at 2003 AGM the Groups annual and interim financial appointment and, subsequently, must seek statements: re-election at least once every three years.
The Committees full terms of reference any significant change in accounting were reviewed, in light of the Smith Report policies or practices: on Audit Committees, and approved by the any interim dividend and board during the year.
They are available recommendation of the final dividend: on the Groups website, www.
com, the annual operating and capital or from the Group Company Secretary.
expenditure budgets: any changes to the companys capital structure or its status as a listed company: risk management strategy: and treasury policy.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 23 Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Committee attendance table The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on the Committees deliberations Audit Remuneration Nomination and any significant issues that may have Board Committee Committee Committee arisen to the board meeting following each Total number of meetings in meeting of the Committee.
Minutes of each the financial year 2003 2004 84 7 3 Committee meeting are provided to all Current directors board members.
Charles Gregson 8 8 - - 3 3 In the 2003 2004 financial year, the Michael Spencer 7 8 - - 2 3 Committee reviewed the Groups annual Nicholas Cosh 7 8 3 4 7 7 1 1 and interim Financial Statements, prior to David Gelber 8 8 - - - their approval by the board.
In doing this it Duncan Goldie-Morrison 3 3 1 1 4 4 1 1 ensured that accounting policies adopted, Stephen McDermott 8 8 - - - judgements and disclosures made in the James McNulty 1 1 - - - preparation of those Financial Statements were the most appropriate to the William Nabarro 8 8 4 4 7 7 3 3 circumstances of the Group.
Jim Pettigrew 8 8 - - - Paul Zuckerman 7 8 4 4 7 7 3 3 In the course of the year the Committee has been kept up to date on developments Past directors in accounting standards and their likely Donald Marshall 3 3 2 2 - - impact on the Groups financial statements.
Robert Knox 3 3 - - - This has also included receiving regular updates on the Groups preparation for the introduction of International Financial The Audit Committee is responsible for: The board has satisfied itself that collectively Reporting Standards.
the Committee possesses recent and monitoring the integrity of the Groups relevant financial experience to enable the During the year the Committee received Financial Statements and any formal Committee to function effectively and to regular reports on the work of the Internal announcements relating to the Groups discharge its responsibilities.
Audit department and reviewed the authority, financial performance: scope of work, resources and effectiveness reviewing the Companys internal The Committee meets four times a year with of the department.
The Group Head of financial controls and risk management the meetings coinciding with the start of Internal Audit and Compliance has direct systems: the external audit cycle, the financial yearaccess to the Audit Committee and its assessing the independence, objectivity end and the publication of the annual and Chairman.
The Committee also considered and effectiveness of the external interim Financial Statements.
The attendance the external auditors Group management auditors: record of Committee members is set out letter on accounting procedures and systems developing and implementing policies on above.
Also in attendance at such meetings, of internal financial control.
the engagement of the external auditors by invitation only, were the Chairman, Group for the supply of non-audit services: Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance During the financial year, the Committee making recommendations for the Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit reviewed the effectiveness of the external appointment, re-appointment and and Compliance and representatives from audit process and the qualification, removal of the external auditors and the external auditors.
The Chairman of the expertise and resources of the external approving their remuneration and terms Audit Committee also maintains contact auditors.
This included receiving from of engagement: with those attendees throughout the year.
 LLP a report on monitoring and reviewing the At the end of each Committee meeting, their own internal quality procedures.
effectiveness of the Groups internal the Group Head of Internal Audit and The Committee also reviewed and approved audit function: and Compliance and representatives from the the proposed audit fee and terms of reviewing arrangements by which staff external auditors are given the opportunity engagement for the 2003 2004 audit may, in confidence, raise concerns about to raise any issues they wish, in private, and has recommended to the board that possible improprieties in matters of without management being present.
it propose to shareholders that financial reporting or other matters.
 LLP be reappointed as the Groups external Appointments to the Committee are made auditors.
It also monitored the balance by the board on the recommendation of of audit and non-audit fees to ensure that the Groups Nomination Committee the independence and objectivity of the following consultation with the Chairman external auditors is maintained.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 24 The Committee has recommended to the The Committee recommends to the board adherence to Group risk policy particularly board a policy as to the types of non-audit appointments for the role of Chairman, in relation to credit, market and operational work that can and cannot be undertaken Group Chief Executive Officer, executive risk.
It also reviews major new business by the external auditors to ensure that the and non-executive directors.
The procedure initiatives to ensure that a proper consideration independence of the external auditors is for appointments is set out in its terms of of risks has been undertaken at the outset.
not compromised by any non-audit work reference and the Committee meets as performed.
Any such proposed non-audit required.
The Committees full terms of It is managements responsibility to identify, assignments, with a fee in excess of reference were reviewed during the year monitor and assess the significant risks 50,000, are subject to the Committees and are available on the Groups website, the Group may be exposed to and develop prior review and approval.
com, or from the Group procedures for managing risk in line with consideration of the annual Financial Company Secretary.
board approved polices and limits.
This Statements the Committee has reviewed includes establishing and maintaining an and is satisfied that the auditors have Early in the 2003 2004 financial year, the adequate, sound and appropriate internal remained independent of the Group Committee identified specific attributes control structure, evaluating its effectiveness during the financial year and continue to that it particularly sought in candidates to and promptly identifying material weaknesses do so to the date of this report.
The join the board as non-executive directors.
Committee also received details from This list of attributes was agreed by all the  LLP of its own directors, the most important of which The Chairman of the Group Risk Committee independence procedures and confirmation was extensive experience in the financial reports on its deliberations to the board.
that, in its opinion, it remained independent markets in which the Group is engaged.
The Committee decided that ICAP Group v Treasury Committee The Treasury executives knowledge of candidates Committee, which comprises such persons Management is responsible for maintaining possessing such attributes was likely to as are appointed by the board who may or an effective system of internal controls be more relevant than that of executive may not be directors, is chaired by the with the board being responsible for reviewing search agencies whose activity is, of Group Finance Director.
It meets monthly its effectiveness.
To assist the board in necessity, less specialised and that the and is responsible for developing, this duty, the Committee reviews the limited number of prospective candidates implementing and monitoring Group Groups internal financial controls and risk rendered it impracticable to proceed by treasury policies.
Further details on the management systems.
After interviewing several activities of the Treasury Committee during steps taken by the Committee to review prospective directors suggested by Group 2003 2004 are provided in the Group the effectiveness of the Groups system executives, the Committee determined to Finance Directors Review.
of internal control are set out below.
recommend the appointment of Duncan Goldie-Morrison and James McNulty.
Relations and dialogue with shareholders The Committee also reviewed, during the The board is accountable to the Companys year, whistleblowing arrangements within iii Remuneration Committee The report shareholders for the performance and the group to enable employees to raise, of the Remuneration Committee is set out activities of the Group and is very much in confidence, any concerns they may on pages 28 to 36. aware of the importance of maintaining have.
It has satisfied itself that such good relations and communications with all arrangements are appropriate.
iv Group Risk Committee The Group Risk its shareholders.
All company announcements Committee comprises: are posted on the investor relations section ii Nomination Committee The of the Companys website, www.
com, Nomination Committee comprises all the David Gelber as soon as they are released and major non-executive directors and one executive Chairman shareholder presentations are also available.
director: Nicholas Cosh The board recognises that the Annual Stephen McDermott General Meeting provides shareholders William Nabarro James McNulty with an opportunity to receive information Chairman appointed 30 March 2004 on the Groups business performance and Nicholas Cosh Jim Pettigrew to question senior management on any appointed 23 September 2003 Group Chief Risk Officer business matters.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison Group Head of Internal Audit and appointed 20 November 2003 Compliance Charles Gregson James McNulty The Committee is responsible for ensuring appointed 30 March 2004 that the Groups risk management Michael Spencer framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and Paul Zuckerman policies are appropriate to the activities of Robert Knox the Group.
The Committee reviews the did not stand for re-election at 2003 AGM Groups risk exposures and ensures ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 25 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group has an established programme Credit risk arises from the potential that a Treasury risk The Groups Treasury of communication with its institutional counterparty is unable or unlikely to perform Committee manages and monitors the investors and analysts.
At the time of the on an obligation resulting in a loss to the Groups free cash resources to ensure, inter announcement of the final and interim results, Company.
All counterparties are subject to alia, that any country or institutional risk presentations are made to analysts, the regular review and assessment by regional arising from the deposit of such funds is press and institutional investors.
In addition, credit officers who then propose for managed and that the rate of return on there are regular meetings during the year approval, by the relevant credit committee, such funds is maximised.
In addition, the subject to relevant regulatory constraints appropriate limits taking into account the Treasury Committee manages the Groups with analysts and investors to update them creditworthiness of the counterparty and the exposure to foreign currency and interest on developments in the Groups strategy nature of the business they transact with rate risk.
Limits set are based on Group set parameters determining the maximum Operational risk During the year the Accountability and audit loss any one subsidiary can suffer as a Group has sought to formalise and Directors responsibilities The directors result of a counterparty default.
Where enhance its existing risk management statement regarding their responsibility for appropriate, country limits are applied to structures with the introduction of a risk preparing the Groups Financial Statements limit the exposure of a company within the management framework designed to is set out in the Directors Report on page Group to that country.
Regional credit record the key risks facing the Group and 22 and the Independent Auditors Report committees monitor the limits given and the controls in place to address and regarding their reporting responsibility is their utilisation and are required to approve mitigate such risks.
This framework, which detailed on page 37. all excesses.
Typically, the Groups will become operational throughout the counterparties are highly credit rated large Group during 2004, enables individual Risk management financial institutions.
managers to record their risk assessment General As with all businesses the Group of their area and then self-certify their faces and manages a number of risks.
The Groups exposure to market risk is adherence to Group policies and The board is responsible for setting the limited as the Group does not run a standards.
The results of this risk and Groups risk appetite and for ensuring that proprietary trading book.
Market risk can control identification process are maintained the Groups risk management processes arise in those instances where one or on a central database and are summarised are appropriate and operating effectively.
both counterparties in a matched principal for and considered by the Group Risk It does this through two board committees: transaction fail to fulfil their obligations Committee.
Group Risk and Treasury, and regional i. e an initially unsettled transaction or credit committees.
through trade mismatches or other errors.
Internal control The board of directors The risk in these situations is restricted to is responsible for the Groups system of The board has conducted an annual review short-term price movements in the underlying internal control and for reviewing its of the effectiveness of the internal controls stock held by the Group and movements effectiveness.
Such a system of internal within the Group by way of a risk in foreign exchange rates.
Any such market control is designed to manage rather than assessment process.
This process involved risk arising is identified and monitored on eliminate the risk of failure to achieve senior business and support management a daily basis.
Policies and procedures business objectives, and can only provide identifying the key risks facing their exist to reduce the likelihood of such reasonable and not absolute assurance business area, the controls in place to trade mismatches and, in the event that against material misstatement or loss.
manage, monitor and mitigate those risks they arise, the Groups policy is to close and confirmation that those controls have out such positions immediately or, with There is an ongoing process for identifying, been in operation throughout the year.
senior management approval, to carry evaluating and managing the significant them with an appropriate hedge in place.
risks faced by the Group, which has been in Credit and market risk The Group place throughout the year under review and transacts business on an agency or The Group does, in certain limited up to the date of approval of these matched principal basis.
In its role as an circumstances, take positions, usually Financial Statements.
The process involves intermediary matching buyers and sellers, in highly illiquid markets, primarily for local management identifying and its exposure to credit and market risk is customer facilitation purposes and these evaluating risks specific to their businesses therefore limited.
However, the Group has can give rise to market risk in the event and regions and then periodically reporting established policies and procedures to of any price movement.
Such risks are formally on this risk assessment and the mitigate further its exposure to both credit monitored and controlled by the setting of controls over such risks to the Groups and market risk.
limits and the use of hedging arrangements management.
The Group Risk Committee receives regular reports on the adherence of Group companies to credit limits and of any positions arising.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 26 The key elements of the internal control Internal audit The Group has an internal system are: audit function which undertakes reviews within the Group and provides objective a comprehensive budgetary process, with assurance to the board, via the Audit both annual and regular forecasts being Committee, on the operation and considered and approved by the board: effectiveness of the system of internal monthly monitoring of trading results, controls within the Group and assesses balance sheet and cash flow against compliance with such systems.
budget and prior periods with significant variances being investigated and Regulation The Group is regulated on a appropriate action taken: consolidated basis by the UK Financial formulation and review of specific policy Services Authority FSA with the Groups covering credit, market and treasury risks UK businesses being authorised by the faced by the business: FSA to carry on regulated activities within regular visits to Group operating the UK.
The FSA adopts a risk based companies by board members and senior approach to supervision and does this management: in various ways including the review of all transactions authorised in accordance prudential returns, visits to firms and with delegated authority limits approved meetings with senior management.
In the by the board: US, the Groups activities are regulated by regular internal audit visits to Group the Securities and Exchange Commission.
operating companies to carry out reviews The Group operates in other countries and of systems and procedures and its operations are subject to relevant local compliance with Group policies: regulatory requirements.
Adherence to senior management within each region these regulations is monitored, where have responsibility for the establishment applicable, by local compliance officers of appropriate control frameworks within who report regularly via the Group Head their operations to ensure compliance of Internal Audit and Compliance to the with Group policies, procedures and board.
The Group is monitoring developments standards.
They are also responsible for and regulation from the EU and the ensuring that risks within their businesses forthcoming Basle II proposals and has are identified, assessed, controlled and commented on them accordingly and will monitored on an ongoing basis: and implement such changes as become regular reports from both the external necessary once those proposals are finalised.
and internal auditors on the internal control systems operating within the Group.
By order of the board The board, through the Audit Committee, has conducted an annual review of the Helen Broomfield effectiveness of the system of internal Group Company Secretary control covering all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associated companies.
Where the Group is not directly involved in the management of the investment it can influence, through board representation, but not control the internal control systems present in those entities.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiaries.
