Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of British Sky Broadcasting Directors Group plc BSkyB, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together, The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company are given on the Group, together with the Accounts and Auditors Report for the year ended pages 26 and 27.
The following Board changes occurred during the year: 30 June 2004.
Tony Ball resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 November 2003.
Activities The Chairmans Statement on page 1 and the Operating and Financial Review on Philip Bowman resigned as a Director of the Company on 14 November 2003. pages 4 to 14 report on the principal activities of the Group, its financial and operating performance during the year and the future development of the Lord Rothschild was appointed a Director of the Company on 17 November 2003. business.
John Thornton resigned as a Director of the Company on 11 May 2004.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the year ended 30 June 2004 was Nicholas Ferguson was appointed a Director of the Company on 15 June 2004.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2004 of 3.25 pence per ordinary share which, together with the Martin Stewart will resign as a Director of the Company on 4 August 2004. interim dividend of 2.75 pence paid to shareholders on 23 April 2004, will make a total dividend for the year of 6.00 pence 2003: nil.
Subject to approval at the Annual Jeremy Darroch will be appointed a Director of the Company on 16 August 2004.
General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 19 November 2004 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 29 October 2004.
Andy Higginson will be appointed a Director of the Company on 1 September 2004.
Post balance sheet events Lord Rothschild, Nicholas Ferguson, Jeremy Darroch and Andy Higginson offer Post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 28 to the accounts.
themselves for election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Jacques Nasser, Gail Rebuck and Arthur Siskind retire from the Board by rotation, Payment policy and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with suppliers prior to entering into a contractual relationship.
In the absence of a specific agreement, it The Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares and options of the Company are is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers on a monthly basis.
The Group had 31 disclosed within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 32 to 40. days purchases outstanding at 30 June 2004 2003: 20 days, based on the total amount invoiced by non-programme trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June Employment policies 2004.
Programme creditors include significant balances which are not yet Equality of opportunity contractually due.
In respect of amounts both contractually due and invoiced, the The Group fully supports the right of all people who work with us to be treated with outstanding number of days purchases is below 30 days 2003: below 30 days.
The Group is committed to ensuring that no one is subjected to less favourable treatment because of their age, gender, gender reassignment, Share capital sexual orientation, race, religious beliefs, marital status or disability.
The Group is Details of changes in the share capital during the year are disclosed in note 22 committed to creating and maintaining a working environment that is free from to the accounts.
On 3 August 2004, the following companies, or their subsidiary all forms of harassment, including bullying.
undertakings, held more than 3% of the Companys share capital: The Group believes everyone should be given equal access to the same choices and News UK Nominees Limited a subsidiary of News Corporation................... 35.33% opportunities in recruitment and employment, irrespective of their differences and needs.
The Group has a range of policies designed to ensure that it can meet this Corporate governance commitment.
These include respect for family and religious needs, and reasonable Details concerning the Groups arrangements relating to corporate governance and adjustment and communication support for disabled people.
its compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority are given on pages 29 to 31.
The Applications are welcomed from a diverse talent pool.
In addition, the Group works Report on Directors Remuneration is on pages 32 to 40. in partnership with Sabre employment a specialist disability employment group to ensure appropriate support for the continuing employment of disabled people.
Charitable and political contributions and community activities The Group is committed to promoting awareness of diversity through training and The Group takes its commitment to the community seriously, with the aim of working practices.
achieving value for both its business and the wider community by helping young people understand and realise their potential.
The Groups second Corporate The Group is a gold card member of the Employers Forum on Disability and Responsibility Review, which does not form part of the Annual Report, will be supports both the Broadcasting and Creative Industries Disability Network and published in the autumn, and will provide further information on its activities and the Cultural Diversity Network.
The Group is also part of the Stonewall Diversity community initiatives see www.
During the period, the Board appointed Champion network.
Gail Rebuck, an Independent Non-Executive Director, as Chairman of the Groups Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee.
Health and safety The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of major importance.
The Groups community activity has continued to focus on utilising its strengths as Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid causing a business to deliver a measurable and sustainable impact on the community, both any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to the health and safety of its personnel.
at a local and national level.
This is achieved via the Groups main community The Groups goal is to ensure continuous improvement in the management of its involvement initiative, Reach for the Sky, Skys flagship initiative to support and health and safety risks.
To this end, a two-year programme was entered into in inspire young people to achieve their potential see www.
There are July 2003 to guide a revitalisation process in relation to health and safety three initiatives within Reach for the Sky, each consisting of a three-way within the Group.
The current status of the project is in line with the deliverables partnership between the Group, voluntary organisations and government required by the programme to securely embed a reinvigorated management departments.
In 2004, Reach for the Sky was awarded Department of Trade and system for health and safety into the Group, that not only meets all applicable Industry Business in the Community Awards for Excellence for Education and statutory requirements, but also demonstrates the Groups commitment to Lifelong Learning and Realising Ability.
In 2004, the Group in the UK donated a total value of 1,019,000 2003: 678,000 to charities in the form of cash.
Details of its Community Investment will be provided in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2004 amounted to nil 2003: nil.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Directors Report continued Employee involvement and communication Environmental responsibility It is the policy of the Group to develop employee involvement throughout the The Group recognises the importance of environmental responsibility, and the organisation and to ensure that employees are aware of the financial and complete BSkyB Environmental Report can be found in the corporate section on economic factors affecting the Group, and how they can succeed as individuals and the Companys website see www.
This report does not form part of the as part of teams.
Communication meetings between management and employees Annual Report.
representatives are typically held on a quarterly basis where matters of specific interest are discussed.
Ongoing consultation occurs covering a broad range of areas Annual General Meeting such as pension provision and health and safety, and employees views are taken The notice convening the AGM to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference into consideration when making decisions.
The Group publishes two employee Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE on 12 November 2004 at magazines covering a wide range of employee issues, runs a comprehensive 11.30am can be found in a separate notice accompanying the Annual Report.
intranet system and regularly hosts roadshows, conferences and forums for twoway communication.
The Groups electronic mail system ensures that staff are kept Auditors up-to-date on relevant information and initiatives.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Training and development Employees have the opportunity to participate in a range of training programmes By order of the Board, in the fields of leadership, technology, the broadcast industry, professional skills David Gormley Company Secretary and management and personal development.
The Group is represented at Board level within the Broadcast Industry Sector Skills Council, Skillset, which promotes 3 August 2004 training and development opportunities across the industry, and has direct links with academic and training bodies.
Financial participation The Group operates a sharesave discounted share purchase scheme, a Company pension scheme, and also a stakeholder pension scheme for the benefit of all eligible employees.
Corporate Governance Report In July 2003, the Financial Services Authority issued the revised code on Corporate The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, notably Governance the Combined Code.
The Combined Code will apply to companies the Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees, for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, and therefore in as set out below.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers several days in relation to the Company from the financial year ending 30 June 2005.
Accordingly, advance of Board and Committee meetings and also have access to the advice and this report explains the Companys compliance with the provisions set out in services of the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Board members have access Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Hampel to external professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors Committee in June 1998 the Hampel Code.
serve for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders following appointment, subsequent re-election by shareholders, and Companies The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and, except Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, reappointment for as noted below, has complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions a further term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
All of the Directors of the Hampel Code.
are required to retire and offer themselves for re-election at least once in every three years.
The Board The Board currently comprises fourteen Directors, made up of two Executive A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow Directors and twelve Non-Executive Directors, eight of whom are determined to be prompt decision making and discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by independent under the provisions of the Hampel Code and seven under the the CEO and comprises the CFO and other senior executives Senior Executives provisions of the Combined Code.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company from within the Group.
bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the Companys affairs, and they carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
Short biographies of each of Board Committees the Directors are set out on pages 26 to 27, which also clearly identify those Remuneration Committee Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the meaning of The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for the Combined Code.
recommending to the Board the key terms of employment of Senior Executives of the Group whose base salary exceeds 250,000 per annum, other than key production The roles of the Chairman, Rupert Murdoch, and CEO, James Murdoch, are separate personnel or on-air talent and reviewing the design and structure of the Groups and have been since the Company obtained its listing in 1994.
Lord St John of package of employee incentives.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined Fawsley held the position of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the terms of reference, meets at least twice a year, and takes advice from the CEO and Company until 17 November 2003, when he was replaced in this position by independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
Committee currently comprises three Independent Non Executive Directors.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate The Board noted that, for the majority of the year, the composition of the strategic, operational and financial matters as required.
A schedule of matters Remuneration Committee did not comply with the Hampel Code, which states reserved for the full Boards approval is in place, which includes, inter alia, the that all members of the Remuneration Committee must be Independent approval of annual and interim results, dividend policy, significant transactions, Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considered that David DeVoe and Rupert agreements or arrangements between the Group and related parties, including Murdoch, along with the other members of the Remuneration Committee, provided members of The News Corporation Limited group News Corporation group.
a valuable contribution to the Remuneration Committee.
On 15 June 2004, Rupert British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29 Corporate Governance Report continued Murdoch and David DeVoe resigned as members of the Remuneration Committee Search Consultant, Spencer Stuart, was retained by the Nominations Committee to and Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as a member.
The members of the aid in the search process.
An extensive list of candidates was put together by Remuneration Committee are Jacques Nasser Chairman, David Evans and Nicholas Spencer Stuart, which was then reduced to a shortlist, all of whom were Ferguson, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance interviewed by all members of the Board involved in the process.
This resulted with the Combined Code.
in the Nominations Committee unanimously recommending to the Board the appointment of James Murdoch as CEO.
The Report on Directors Remuneration can be found on pages 32 to 40.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Report on Directors During this period, the Nominations Committee met with various shareholders Remuneration will be put forward for an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
and shareholder bodies to advise them on the selection process.
As a result of the comments received from those shareholders, the Nominations Committee Audit Committee considered it appropriate to nominate a further senior figure to the Board and The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, has recommended the appointment of Lord Rothschild, who was nominated to the clearly defined terms of reference as laid out by the Board.
Philip Bowman, who Board and appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on had been Chairman of the Audit Committee since March 1995, resigned as a 17 November 2003.
Director and consequently as a member of the Audit Committee on 14 November 2003.
Following Philip Bowmans resignation, the composition of the Audit During the year, the Nominations Committee also commenced searches to find Committee did not comply with the provisions of the Hampel Code, which states replacements for Philip Bowman and John Thornton who resigned during the that there must be a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Audit course of the year.
Spencer Stuart were again asked to assist in the process and a Committee.
On Philip Bowmans resignation, the Board started a process to recruit number of candidates were identified.
The Nominations Committee was assisted in a further Independent Non-Executive Director with sufficient financial experience this search by Allan Leighton, Gail Rebuck, Lord Wilson of Dinton, Lord Rothschild to replace Philip Bowman.
The Company has announced that Andy Higginson will and Arthur Siskind.
The Nominations Committee was mindful of appointing a join the Board on 1 September 2004, and will also become a member of the Audit Director with relevant financial experience who could also be appointed as a Committee, as of that date.
On 15 June 2004, David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind member of the Audit Committee and a further Independent Non-Executive Director.
resigned from the Audit Committee.
The composition of the Audit Committee is As a result, the Nominations Committee identified and unanimously recommended currently Allan Leighton Chairman and Gail Rebuck.
This does not comply with to the Board the appointment of Andy Higginson and Nicholas Ferguson as the Hampel Code, which requires there to be a minimum of three Directors on additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
the Audit Committee, the majority of whom have to be independent, but the Company will be in compliance with the Combined Code from 1 September 2004.
Appointment and resignation of Directors The Audit Committee meets at least five times a year.
Its duties include making Lord Rothschild was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman on 17 November recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and 2003.
Nicholas Ferguson was appointed to the Board on 15 June 2004.
The Company removal of the external auditors, and discussing with the external auditors the has announced that Jeremy Darroch will join the Board on 16 August 2004, as nature, scope and fees for the external auditors work.
The Company has announced that Andy Higginson will join the Board on reviews, and recommends to the Board the approval of or any amendment to, the 1 September 2004. quarterly, half year and annual financial statements of the Group, and also reviews the Company's Annual Report on Form 20-F prior to its filing, and the Group's Tony Ball resigned from the Board on 4 November 2003.
Philip Bowman resigned significant accounting principles, systems of internal control, treasury policies from the Board on 14 November 2003.
John Thornton resigned from the Board on and reviews the audit plans and findings of the Group's internal audit function.
The Company has announced that Martin Stewart will resign from the The Audit Committee also monitors the Group's whistleblowing policy and is Board on 4 August 2004. responsible for approving non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit Committee has the power to seek external advice as and when required.
Corporate Governance Review On 14 November 2003, the Company announced that it had formed an ad-hoc News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is a major Committee of the Board the Corporate Governance Committee to review all of shareholder in the Group, holding over 35.3% of the issued share capital.
The Audit the relevant codes and statutory obligations and to identify any appropriate Committee receives, on a quarterly basis, a schedule of all transactions between changes to make to the processes of the Board and the composition of its companies within the News Corporation group and the Group and any other related Committees.
The Corporate Governance Committee members comprised Lord party transactions, showing cumulatively all transactions which have been entered Wilson of Dinton as Chairman, Lord Rothschild and Arthur Siskind.
into during the year, and which exceed 100,000 in value.
The Corporate Governance Committees approach was to undertake an analysis of Furthermore, Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the the Combined Code, as well as the relevant Securities & Exchange Commission Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or SEC and New York Stock Exchange NYSE rules applicable to the Company, arrangements with News Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other related and to identify where the Companys own structure and practices varied from them.
party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the The Corporate Governance Committee sought to bring the Companys structure Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million and practices into line with all the rules with which the Company will be bound in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any transaction in excess of 25 million to comply, including the provisions of the Combined Code.
in aggregate value must be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the Audit Committee, it must also be submitted to the Board for approval.
The Corporate Governance Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of all of the Combined Codes provisions.
In the case of code provision A.
7.2, which Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee requires that Directors who have been serving on the Board for more than On 15 June 2004, the Nominations Committee was merged with the Corporate nine years should retire and stand for re-election at each AGM, the Corporate Governance Committee to become the Corporate Governance & Nominations Governance Committee recommended that this provision should apply only from Committee.
The Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of Dinton and its members are expiry of the current term of office that each Director is serving as approved by Lord Rothschild and Arthur Siskind.
Lord St John of Fawsley stepped down from the shareholders in general meeting.
Committee on 15 June 2004 and John Thornton resigned from the then Nominations Committee following his resignation as a Director of the Company on 11 May 2004.
The Corporate Governance Committee also recommended that the composition of the Boards Committees should comply with the relevant provisions of the Combined During the year, the following processes were followed by the Corporate Code and recommended changes to the composition of the Audit and Remuneration Governance & Nominations Committee in its nomination of Directors to the Board.
Committees as discussed earlier in this report.
Furthermore, they recommended that the Corporate Governance Committee should be merged with the Nominations On 23 September 2003, the Company announced that Tony Ball, CEO of the Group, Committee to form the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
These would not be renewing his service agreement on its expiry on 31 May 2004.
The changes ensure that going forward, the composition of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee, chaired by Lord St John of Fawsley, was tasked by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees will comply with the provisions of Board to find a suitable replacement for Tony Ball.
Gail Rebuck and Allan Leighton the Combined Code, and the composition of the Audit Committee will be in were asked to assist the Nominations Committee in this process.
An Executive compliance from 1 September 2004, following the appointment of Andy Higginson.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
