Corporate Governance The group recognises, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has kept its corporate governance practices under review throughout the year following the publication of the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and the Smith Report on audit committees in January 2003 and the resultant revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 FRC Code published in July 2003.
The 2003 FRC Code is applicable to the company from 1 February 2004.
An explanation of how the principles of good governance, set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code, have been applied is contained in this report and in the Report of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Throughout the year ended 31 January 2004, the company has been compliant with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
In addition, the company has complied with the provisions set out in the 2003 FRC Code except in relation to Board composition, which is subject to continuing review and the provisions of the 2003 FRC code will be taken into account in respect of the future balance of the Board.
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
In view of the size of the company, it is currently not considered appropriate to have a majority of independent non-executive directors on the Board.
Statement of compliance with the principles of the combined code Board of Directors The Board comprises six executive directors, an independent non-executive chairman and three further independent nonexecutive directors.
The company has never had a designated chief executive.
Each of the six executive directors has specific areas of responsibility and all collectively, along with the Chief Financial Officer, form the executive committee, with no one director being able to significantly affect the running of the company without consulting his colleagues.
P J Stone has been identified as the senior independent director.
The non-executive directors are as follows: P J Manser was appointed a non-executive director in January 2001 and non-executive chairman in May 2001.
E G Licoys was appointed a non-executive director in January 1998.
J J Nelson was appointed a non-executive director in May 2001.
P J Stone was appointed a non-executive director in January 1998.
The companys board of directors meets at least six times a year to discuss the performance of the company and to discuss matters which it has reserved to itself for decision as well as any other matters that are referred to it.
It is their responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects and this is done through the chairmans statement, business and financial review and the financial statements.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate quality information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Further information is obtained by the Board from the executive directors and other relevant members of senior management as the Board, particularly its non-executive directors, considers appropriate.
The need for directors training is regularly assessed by the company and a formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board and its members is undertaken on an annual basis.
At least one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year in accordance with the Articles of Association and all directors are re-elected at least once every three years.
Any director appointed during the year must offer himself or herself for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of directors up for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are shown on page 46.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board has established a number of committees consisting of certain directors, including an Audit Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee whose membership and functions are defined on page 18.
Intermediate Capital Group 17 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four 2003 four independent non-executive directors, these being Messrs, Licoys, Nelson and Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Manser.
The executive directors are not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to attend along with the Chief Financial Officer.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys auditors, are also invited to attend and have direct access to committee members.
The committee meets regularly, at least twice a year and is responsible for Selecting and appointing the external auditors, approving their terms of reference and fees and determining the scope and nature of their work.
Reviewing the performance of the external auditors and ensuring appropriate rotation of audit partner.
Acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and giving input to the Boards review of the companys internal control and risk management systems and procedures.
Reviewing the independence of the external auditors and the relationship between audit and non-audit work performed by the external auditors.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all significant non-audit work performed by the auditors is approved in advance by the committee and they assess whether such appointments impair, or appear to impair the auditors judgement or independence.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP is shown in note 7 on page 34.
Reviewing the annual and interim accounts before being presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: compliance with applicable, accounting and legal standards: issues regarding a significant element of judgement: and the statements on internal controls and business risk assessment.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee The committee consists of four 2003 four independent non-executive directors, these being Messrs Manser, Licoys, Nelson and Stone.
It recommends the terms and conditions of employment of the executive directors.
Levels of remuneration are considered sufficient, but not excessive, to attract and retain the directors needed to run the company successfully.
A significant proportion of directors remuneration is linked to corporate performance.
All executive directors have one year rolling contracts.
Further details regarding remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the Report of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Appointments of executive and non-executive directors are made as necessary as a result of discussions by the committee and are subject to full Board approval.
This process was followed for the appointments of Mr Phillips, Mr Evain and Mr fide Mitry to the Board during 2003.
Attendance at Board committee meetings The table below shows the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year and the attendance record of individual directors.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of Meetings Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Held 6 2 2 P J Manser 6 2 2 T R Attwood 6 - - T H Bartlam 6 - - C A Evain 2 - - J-L fide Gersigny 5 - - A D Jackson 2 - - E G Licoys 5 2 2 F fide Mitry 2 - - J J Nelson 6 2 2 A C Phillips 3 - - P J Piper 6 - - P J Stone 5 2 2 A D Jackson retired from the Board on 31 July 2003 and J-L fide Gersigny retired from the Board on 31 January 2004.
A C Phillips was appointed to the Board on 27 May 2003 and C A Evain and F fide Mitry were appointed to the Board on 2 October 2003.
18 Intermediate Capital Group Relationships with shareholders The company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders which it achieves through regular interim and annual reports and the Annual General Meeting.
The company is always willing to enter into dialogue with shareholders, based on mutual understanding of objectives, and meetings are regularly held with major shareholders.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested to do so, non-executive directors will attend meetings with major shareholders.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the group has in place a system of internal controls that is appropriate to the business environment in which it operates.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and believe that such a system of controls is in place to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the directors report and accounts.
"This process has been subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the guidelines contained in ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales."
The key elements of this process are: Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the group and these are approved by the Board.
A detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the groups finance function.
Financial risks primarily loan losses and associated risks are considered on behalf of the Board by the Executive Committee.
The minutes of the Executive Committee are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
These controls concentrate on the procedures for making and monitoring loans and investments and for the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised disposition.
Operational risks including compliance with the Financial Services Act are considered on behalf of the Board by the Executive Committee.
The Board has established practices for reviewing the system of internal controls by way of reports it receives from the Executive Committee.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal control system and size of the company it cannot be justified at present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the risk management and control arrangements on 19 March 2004 in order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Going concern statement Based upon the review of the groups budgets and outline business plans for the next two years, the directors believe that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
