Corporate Governance Introduction Board with appropriate and timely management To ensure the appropriate level of corporate information.
The Board regularly reviews both the governance, two important documents were performance of, and the contractual arrangements published in July 2003: The London Stock with, the Manager.
The Directors also have access, Exchanges revised Combined Code on Corporate where necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, Governance for all listed companies and the to independent professional advice at the expense Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC of the Company.
Code of Corporate Governance for Investment The table below details the number of Board and Trusts.
Compliance with the revised Combined Audit Committee meetings attended by each Code is mandatory for accounting periods Director.
During the year there were six Board commencing on or after 1st November 2003 and its meetings, including a meeting devoted to strategy, aim is to improve investor confidence by enhancing and two Audit Committee meetings.
The AITCs Code of Audit Corporate Governance complements the Combined Board Committee Meetings Meetings Code and provides a framework of best practice for Director attended attended investment trusts.
William Berry 6 n a The Board is responsible for ensuring the Robin Faber 3 1 appropriate level of Corporate Governance and has Andrew Murison 6 2 Gal fide Pontbriand 6 2 put in place arrangements which it believes enable Ferdinand Verdonck 5 2 the Company to comply with the revised Combined Alexander E Zagoreos 5 2 Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate Directors are initially appointed until the following Governance.
The following report outlines how the Annual General Meeting when, under the principles of the revised Combined Code were Companys Articles of Association, it is required applied during the year, unless stated otherwise.
that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a The Board Directors appointment will run for a three year The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, term.
A Director may then be invited by the Board chaired by Andrew Murison, all of whom are to serve for a further three years.
A Directors considered to be independent.
The Company has continuing appointment is subject to re-election by no executive Directors or employees and a shareholders on retirement by rotation in management agreement between the Company accordance with the Companys Articles of and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the Association, which require that one third of the Manager has authority.
This includes management Board must retire by rotation each year.
of the Companys assets and the provision of Board Committees accounting, company secretarial, administrative Since the year end the Board has established a and some marketing services.
All other matters are Nomination Committee, which consists of all of the reserved for the approval of the Board.
Directors, and will meet at least annually to ensure The Board meets on at least five occasions during that the Board has a balance of skills to carry out its the year and between these meetings there is fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable regular contact with the Manager who provides the candidates when necessary for appointment.
A JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 25 Corporate Governance continued variety of sources will be used to ensure that a wide The Chairman and Directors make themselves range of candidates are considered.
The Committee available as and when required to address will also undertake an annual performance shareholder queries.
The Directors may be evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board contacted through the Company Secretary whose have devoted sufficient time and contributed details are shown on page 47. adequately to the work of the Board.
The Chairman Internal Control is evaluated by the other Directors.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least The Audit Committee meets at least twice each annually, to review the effectiveness of the year.
The Committee reviews the actions and Companys system of internal control and to report judgements of management in relation to the to shareholders that they have done so.
This interim and annual financial statements and the encompasses a review of all controls, which the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It Board has identified as including business, financial, reviews the terms of the management agreement operational, compliance and risk management.
and examines the effectiveness of the Companys The Directors are responsible for the Companys internal control systems, receives information from system of internal control which is designed to the Managers compliance department and reviews safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper the scope and results of the external audit, its cost accounting records and ensure that financial effectiveness and the independence and information used within the business, or objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors published, is reliable.
However, such a system can statement on the Companys system of internal only be designed to manage rather than eliminate control is set out below.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives The terms of reference for the Audit and and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not Nomination Committees are available for absolute, assurance against fraud, material inspection on request and at the Companys AGM.
Relations with Shareholders Since investment management, custody of assets The Board regularly monitors the shareholder and all administrative services are provided to the profile of the Company.
Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control mainly The Company reports formally to shareholders comprises monitoring the services provided by twice a year by way of the Annual Report and JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating Accounts and the Interim Report.
controls established by them, to ensure they meet At the Companys Annual General Meeting the the Companys business objectives.
Consequently, Directors and representatives of the Manager are the Company does not have an internal audit available in person to meet with and answer function.
The key elements designed to provide shareholders questions.
In addition, a effective internal control are as follows: presentation is given by the Investment Managers Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive who review the Companys performance.
During review by the Board of key investment and the year the Companys brokers and JPMFAM hold financial data, including management accounts, regular discussions with larger shareholders and revenue projections, analysis of transactions and the Directors are made fully aware of their views.
26 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Corporate Governance continued Management Agreement Appointment of a Socially Responsible Investment manager and custodian regulated by the Financial The following is a summary of JPMFAMs policy Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities statement on socially responsible investment are clearly defined in a written agreement.
SRI which has been noted by the Board: Management Systems The Managers system of Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is internal control includes organisational our primary duty to act in the best financial agreements which clearly define the lines of interests of our clients and to achieve good responsibility, delegated authority, control financial returns consistent with an acceptable procedures and systems.
These are monitored by level of risk in the management of our clients JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly investments.
A company run in the long-term monitors compliance with FSA rules.
interests of its shareholders with the objective of enhancing shareholder value over time will Investment Strategy Authorisation and need to manage effectively relationships with monitoring of the Companys investment strategy its employees, suppliers and customers, to and exposure limits by the Board.
behave ethically and to have regard to the The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of environment and society as a whole.
In our the Companys system of internal control by pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, monitoring the operation of the key operating our investment managers take account of controls of the Manager and its associates as these and all other factors affecting the follows: valuation of the companies in which they are currently invested or considering investment the Board, through the Audit Committee, on behalf of clients.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMFAMs compliance department: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMFAM.
The following is a summary of JPMFAMs the Board reviews the report on the internal policy statement on corporate governance and controls and the operations of its custodian, voting policy which has been noted by the Board: JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently reviewed: and JPMFAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients the Directors review every six months an worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers independent report on the internal controls and of investment performance is an assessment of the operations of JPMFAM.
the corporate governance principles and By the means of the procedures set out above, the practices of the companies in which we invest Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness our clients assets and we expect those of the Companys system of internal control for the companies to demonstrate high standards of year ended 31st March 2004, and to the date of governance in the management of their approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 27 Corporate Governance continued Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition, committee structure, director independence and remuneration issues, auditor rotation and social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMFAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
