Corporate Governance Compliance Role of the Board The Company is committed to high standards of The Board determines and monitors the Companys corporate governance.
This statement, together investment objectives and policy, and its future with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on strategic direction.
A management agreement page 25, indicates how the Company has applied between the Company and JPMFAM sets out the the principles of good governance of the Combined matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Code published in 1998 the 1998 Combined Code includes management of the Companys assets and and its requirements on Internal Control.
the provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, and some marketing services.
All Two important documents were published in July other matters are reserved for the approval of the 2003: The London Stock Exchanges revised Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to Combined Code on Corporate Governance for all the Board for decision has been reviewed and listed companies, and the Association of updated during the year.
Full and timely Investment Trust Companies AITC Code of information is provided to the Board to enable it to Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts.
function effectively and to allow Directors to Compliance with the revised Combined Code is discharge their responsibilities.
mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1st November 2003 and its aim is to There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take improve investor confidence by enhancing the independent professional advice if necessary and effectiveness of Boards.
The AITCs Code of at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to Corporate Governance complements the Combined the access that every Director has to the advice Code and provides a framework of best practice for and services of the Company Secretary, JPMFAM, investment trusts.
which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable The Board considers that the Company has rules and regulations are complied with.
complied with the best practice provisions in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code throughout Board Composition the year under review.
During the year it has Following the retirement of Patrick Gifford, the reviewed the further requirements of the codes Board now consists solely of non-executive published in July 2003: it believes that the directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as Company already substantially complies with the independent of the Companys Manager, including provisions contained in Section 1 of the revised the Chairman.
Combined Code and aims to be fully compliant A review of Board composition and balance is with the new Code during the year to 30th included as part of the annual performance September 2005. evaluation of the Board, details of which may be The Board is responsible for ensuring the found below.
appropriate level of Corporate Governance and has The Board has considered whether a senior put in place arrangements which it believes enable independent director should be appointed.
The the Company to comply with the revised Combined Board comprises entirely of non-executive Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate directors and the appointment of a senior Governance.
The following report outlines how the independent director is not considered necessary.
1998 Combined Code principles were applied However, the Chairman of the Audit Committee will during the year, unless stated otherwise.
lead the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they 20 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Audit Committee have concerns that cannot be resolved through Board meetings meetings discussion with the Chairman.
Director attended attended 1 Tenure Andrew Fleming 31 2 Patrick Gifford 5 Directors are initially appointed until the following Blaise Hardman 6 2 Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Jeremy Paulson-Ellis 6 2 Articles of Association, it is required that they be David Pearson 6 2 elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, Directors are David Ritchie 6 2 required to submit themselves for re-election at 1 Appointed 22nd April 2004. least every three years.
The Chairman will meet with 2 Resigned 28th July 2004.
Mr Gifford was not a member of each director before the director is proposed for the Audit Committee.
re-election, and subject to the evaluation of Training and Appraisal performance carried out each year, the Board will On appointment the Manager and Company agree whether it is appropriate for the director to Secretary provide all Directors with induction seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided that length of service in itself will necessarily on changes in regulatory requirements that could disqualify a director from seeking re-election but, affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are when making a recommendation, the Board will encouraged to attend industry and other seminars take into account the on-going requirements of the covering issues and developments relevant to Combined Code, including the need to refresh the investment trusts.
Any directors with more than nine years service will be required to submit The Board has agreed a procedure for the formal themselves annually for re-election.
evaluation of its own performance and of that of its committees and individual directors.
The The Board recommends the elections of Andrew evaluation of individual directors is led by the Fleming and Keith Percy who were appointed as Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit Directors on 22nd April and 4th November 2004 Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans respectively, and the re-election of David Pearson, performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates its who retires by rotation at this years AGM.
own performance and that of its committees.
Meetings and Committees Board Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities and Since the year end, the Board has established a functions to committees.
Details of membership of Nomination Committee, which consists of the entire committees are shown with Directors profiles on Board, and which will meet at least annually to page 17.
Directors who are not members of ensure that the Board has a balance of skills and Committees may attend at the invitation of the experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to Chairman.
select and propose suitable candidates for The table below lists the number of Board and appointment when necessary.
A variety of sources, Committee meetings attended by each Director.
including external search consultants, may be used During the year there were six Board meetings, to ensure that a wide range of candidates is including a meeting devoted to strategy, and two considered.
Prior to this, the Board as a whole Audit Committee meetings.
In addition there is fulfilled the functions of the Nomination Committee.
regular contact between the Directors and the The Audit Committee meets at least twice each Manager and Company Secretary throughout the year and its membership is set out on page 17.
Committee reviews the actions and judgements of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 21 Corporate Governance continued management in relation to the interim and annual business, financial, operational, compliance and risk financial statements and the Companys management.
compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the The Directors are responsible for the Companys terms of the management agreement and system of internal control which is designed to examines the effectiveness of the Companys safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper internal control systems, receives information from accounting records and ensure that financial the Managers compliance department and also information used within the business, or published reviews the scope and results of the external audit, for external use, is reliable.
However, any such its cost effectiveness and the independence and system can only be designed to manage rather objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve statement on the Companys system of internal business objectives and therefore can only provide control is set out below.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The terms of reference for the Nomination and fraud, material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committees are available for inspection on Since investment management, custody of assets request and at the Companys AGM.
and all administrative services are provided to the Relations with Shareholders Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder Companys system of internal control mainly profile of the Company.
comprises monitoring the services provided by JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating The Company reports formally to shareholders controls established by them.
The Company does twice a year by way of the Annual Report and not have an internal audit function of its own, but Accounts and the Interim Report.
relies on the internal audit department of JPMFAM.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the The key procedures designed to provide effective Companys Annual General Meeting at which the internal control are as follows: Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet and answer questions.
In Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive addition, a presentation is given by the investment review by the Board of key investment and managers who review the Companys performance.
financial data, including management accounts, During the year the Companys brokers, the revenue projections, analysis of transactions and investment managers and JPMFAM hold regular performance comparisons.
The Directors Management Agreement Appointment of a are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman manager and custodian, regulated by the Financial and Directors make themselves available as and Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities when required to address shareholder queries.
are clearly defined in a written agreement.
The Directors may be contacted through the Management Systems The Managers system of Company Secretary whose details are shown on internal control includes organisational page 43. agreements which clearly define the lines of Internal Control responsibility, delegated authority, control The Combined Code requires the Directors at least procedures and systems.
These are monitored by annually to review the effectiveness of the JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly Companys system of internal control and to report monitors compliance with FSA rules.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This Investment Strategy Authorisation and encompasses a review of all controls, which include 22 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese monitoring of the Companys investment strategy these and all other factors affecting the and exposure limits by the Board.
valuation of the companies in which they are currently invested or considering investment The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of on behalf of clients.
the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating Corporate Governance and Voting Policy controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMFAM.
The following is a summary of JPMFAMs the Board, through the Audit Committee, policy statement on corporate governance and reviews the terms of the management voting policy which has been approved by the agreement and receives reports from JPMFAMs Board: Compliance department: JPMFAM is committed to delivering superior the Board receives an independent report on investment performance to its clients worldwide.
the internal controls and the operations of its We believe that one of the drivers of investment custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself performance is an assessment of the corporate also independently reviewed: and governance principles and practices of the the Directors consider every six months an companies in which we invest our clients assets independent report on the internal controls and and we expect those companies to demonstrate the operations of JPMFAM.
high standards of governance in the management of their business.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the Proxy voting is an important part of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal corporate governance process, and we view control for the year ended 30th September 2004, seriously our obligation to manage the voting and to the date of approval of this Annual Report rights of the shares entrusted to us as we and Accounts.
would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a prudent and diligent Socially Responsible Investment manner, based exclusively on our reasonable The following is a summary of JPMFAMs policy judgement of what will best serve the financial statement on socially responsible investment interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable SRI which has been noted by the Board: we will vote at all of the meetings called by Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is companies in which we are invested.
our primary duty to act in the best financial In order to do this we have formulated detailed interests of our clients and to achieve good guidelines, which set out our stance on a financial returns consistent with an acceptable variety of key corporate governance issues, level of risk in the management of our clients including disclosure and transparency, board investments.
A company run in the long-term composition, committee structure, director interests of its shareholders with the objective independence and remuneration issues, auditor of enhancing shareholder value over time will rotation and social and environmental issues.
need to manage effectively relationships with These guidelines form the basis of our proxy its employees, suppliers and customers, to voting decisions, although it should be noted behave ethically and to have regard to the that JPMFAM makes all of its voting decisions environment and society as a whole.
In our on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, individual circumstances of each vote.
our investment managers take account of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 23
