Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
senior management within the Company.
The Committee also has This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance set responsibility for making recommendations to the Board concerning the out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council appointment of the external auditors and for approving the remuneration in July 2003 the Code have been applied by the Company during the year and terms of engagement of the auditors.
The Committee reviews and ended 31 December 2004.
The Company confirms that, with the exception approves the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors of provision A.
2.1 relating to the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive perform, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring that their discussed below, it has complied throughout 2004 with the provisions of the objectivity and independence is not compromised.
It should be noted that it is the Boards intention that the roles principally comprises further assurance services relating to due diligence of Chairman and Chief Executive will be separated at the time of the and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals proposed demerger of Filtrona scheduled for June 2005. of businesses and tax services.
The Committee believes that given their detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and The Board accounting policies and the importance of carrying out detailed due The Board currently comprises a Chairman, four executive and six diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for this non-executive directors who have wide experience and, apart from additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditors rather than Mr A P Dyer, are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the another firm of accountants.
The Committees terms of reference are Code to be independent.
Brief biographical details of the directors are available on the Companys website, www.
given on pages 22 and 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings and the Remuneration Committee procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall control The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors, and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance with the exception of Mr A P Dyer, each of whom is independent, and is issues are set out in the internal control report below and in the Financial chaired by Mr C A Banks.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, Review on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial the Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Statement.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 36.
The terms of reference Committees which comply with the provisions of the Code.
The Chairman, of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Mr A J Habgood, has continued to act in the capacity of Chief Executive.
The Board recognises the concerns, expressed in a general context, Nomination Committee about the possible negative effects of a concentration of power through The Nomination Committee comprises Mr A J Habgood, who chairs the a combined Chairman and Chief Executive role but believes these do not Committee, and two independent non-executive directors, Mr J F Harris presently apply to the Company for a variety of reasons.
The Board has and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as necessary to enable it to a majority of non-executive directors and, in compliance with the Code, make recommendations to the Board on new appointments of executive excluding the Chairman half of the Board comprises independent and non-executive directors.
An external search consultancy is retained non-executive directors who constitute the entire membership of the by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered Audit and Remuneration Committees and represent a majority of the as prospective non-executive directors.
Candidates are then interviewed Nomination Committee.
None of the Companys non-executive directors by members of the Committee before an appropriate recommendation had any previous connection with the Company or its executive directors is made to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set on appointment to the Board.
In addition, the Groups operations are out on the Companys website.
devolved and the Group benefits from the presence of strong senior line management in those operations.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, Meetings attendance is a former Chairman of the Company.
Mr J F Harris has been designated The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the as the senior independent non-executive director.
The current Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings arrangement is temporary in that the Board has decided that with effect during 2004: from the completion of the proposed demerger of Filtrona, referred to in Audit Remuneration Nomination the Chairmans Statement on page 4 of the Annual Review and Summary Board Committee Committee Committee Financial Statement, it will appoint Mr C P Sander as Chief Executive of Number of meetings 8 3 5 5 the Company whilst Mr A J Habgood will remain Chairman.
The Boards A J Habgood 8 5 firm view is that the Group does not currently suffer from a damaging 1 A P Dyer82 concentration of power and is well protected from such a possibility.
J F Harris 7 3 5 4 Furthermore, it believes that the present arrangements are in the best D M Williams 8 interests of the business and of shareholders at this time.
2 S G Williams 524 1 P Heiden 6 3 4 The Company has instigated a formal performance evaluation 3 P G Lorenzini 5 process for the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen C A Banks 7 3 5 4 by the Deputy Chairman, Mr A P Dyer.
This includes completion M J Roney 7 3 4 of self-assessment forms by, and individual discussions with, each 4 U Wolters 422 director.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
4 C P Sander 4 4 M J Harper 1 Detailed information concerning directors remuneration is given in the 4 P L Larmon 1 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 36.
1 Mr A P Dyer stepped down from the Nomination Committee on Audit Committee 21 July 2004 having attended both Nomination Committee meetings The Audit Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors, held between 1 January 2004 and that date.
with the exception of Mr A P Dyer, each of whom is independent, and 2 Mr S G Williams retired from the Board on 31 August 2004 having is chaired by Mr J F Harris who is considered by the Board to have recent attended all but one of the Board and Nomination Committee and relevant financial experience.
It receives and considers reports from meetings held between 1 January 2004 and that date.
the external auditors and the internal audit function, monitors the integrity 3 Mr P G Lorenzini retired from the Board on 31 July 2004 having of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the attended all of the Board meetings held between 1 January 2004 and Companys financial performance and also reviews the Companys that date.
During the year the Committee reviewed the 4 Dr U Wolters, Mr C P Sander, Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon effectiveness of both the external auditors and the internal audit function attended all relevant Board and Committee meetings held between their following completion of detailed questionnaires by both the Board and respective dates of appointment to the Board and 31 December 2004.
2 Bunzl plc Relations with shareholders actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the The Chairman and Finance Director have regular meetings with previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board the the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a weekly views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication include basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: presentations of the interim and preliminary results.
All shareholders are the internal audit department periodically reviews individual businesses encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited and procedures, makes recommendations to improve controls and to ask questions at the Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all follows up to ensure that management implement the recommendations of the directors informally.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent made.
The internal audit departments work is determined on a risk to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
The Board assessment basis and their findings are reported to Group and periodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and business area management as well as to the Audit Committee: surveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys own brokers.
the external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the system of internal financial control Internal control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the necessary for expressing their audit opinion on the truth and fairness Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
of the financial statements: However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the every six months the Audit Committee, which is chaired by risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable Mr J F Harris, the senior independent non-executive director, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviews the findings of the external and internal auditors and approves the future work plans of the internal audit function: In 1999 the Turnbull Committee published guidance on the wider aspects regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess the of internal control.
In accordance with this guidance the Company risks throughout the Group: established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing the Group Health and Safety Committee sets relevant policies on health process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks to the and safety issues, based on the special advice of the Technical Group.
The Board confirms that such procedures have been in place Sub-Committee, and monitors their implementation: for the year ended 31 December 2004 and up to the date of approval risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against of these financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: the Group Environment Committee periodically reviews environmental The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted practices across the Group: and a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored These include the approval of the annual and interim results of the by Group management in association with external advisers.
Company, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, material increases The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of reference system of internal control in operation during 2004. for the Board Committees.
This ensures that the directors maintain overall control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of this system include: a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to the appropriate level of management: clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment and acquisitions: strategic plans which are prepared annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: comprehensive budgets which are prepared annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: a well-established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: and a detailed procedures manual covering treasury operations.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control system are listed below: central management holds regular meetings with business area management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the business areas and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed: an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chairman and the Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on internal control issues: the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee discussions on internal control issues which ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: 3 Bunzl plc
