CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board submits, in respect of the year under review, its report on the application of the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code the Code published in June 1998.
The revised Combined Code on corporate governance published in July 2003, applies to the Company for the year ending 31 March 2005.
Directors The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the management of the Group and has adopted a committee structure which enables it to concentrate its efforts on strategy, management performance, governance and internal control.
The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus two other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
John Peace was appointed as Chairman and David Tyler as a non-executive director by GUS plc under the Relationship Agreement between the Company and GUS which was entered into at the time of the IPO.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
The Chairman leads the Board in determining the Groups strategy and monitoring high level progress.
The Chairman does not have any material involvement at an operational level.
The day-to-day business of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief Executive, Rose Marie Bravo, who is supported by the two executive directors, Stacey Cartwright and Thomas ONeill.
During the year under review the Board held four scheduled meetings and all directors attended each meeting.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
In addition to the papers for each Board Meeting, directors are also supplied with an extensive monthly report, which details progress of the Groups activities.
There is also a procedure whereby directors, in the furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Philip Bowman, Guy Peyrelongue and Caroline Marland are for all purposes, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management and free from any business relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms.
Philip Bowman was appointed as the senior independent non-executive director in March 2003.
On appointment, directors are furnished with relevant information to discharge their duties effectively.
The Company has introduced a structured induction process whereby a director will meet key members of the management team following his her appointment.
As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
All directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Committees The Board is supported by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
GUS is entitled to appoint one member of each of these committees under the Relationship Agreement.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive directors: Philip Bowman Chairman, Caroline Marland and David Tyler.
Guy Peyrelongue served as a member until 13 May 2003 when Caroline Marland was appointed as a member.
The committee normally meets at least twice a year, with both the external auditors and the group internal auditor present.
All members of the Committee were in attendance at each of the two meetings held during the year under review.
It is the role of the Audit Committee to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence are maintained.
It has adopted a policy in this respect and monitors the nature and extent of non-audit services, seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
Audit related services  LLP, the external auditors, are the preferred providers of audit related services given their understanding of the Group and the synergistic relationship between such work and the aims of the annual audit.
Such work extends to, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars and regulatory and other compliance reports.
Taxation services Generally, if the external auditors knowledge of the Groups tax affairs provides significant advantage which another third party would not have, they will be retained for both tax planning and compliance matters.
General services Other proposed assignments are put out to competitive tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
22 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its application of corporate governance principles in relation to directors remuneration is described in the Report on directors remuneration and related matters on pages 25 to 36.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are John Peace Chairman, Rose Marie Bravo, Philip Bowman, Caroline Marland and Guy Peyrelongue.
Rose Marie Bravo and Caroline Marland were appointed as members on 13 May 2003.
All members of the Committee were present at each of the two meetings held during the year under review, which considered various matters including the appointment of Stacey Cartwright to the position of Chief Financial Officer.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim Reports, quarterly trading updates and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company communicates with its institutional investors frequently and regularly throughout the year through a combination of formal and informal meetings, participation at sector-specific conferences and ad hoc briefings with management.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the 2003 AGM was sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Resolutions put to Shareholders were voted on by way of a show of hands.
It is the intention that all directors will attend the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer Shareholders questions.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Myners Report to the Shareholder Voting Working Group 2004, the Company intends to call a poll on each of the resolutions to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the number of proxy votes for and against the resolution will be made available at the AGM on request.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Details on the Companys approach to CSR are given on pages 37 to 39.
Accountability and audit It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should present a balanced and clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 40, which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Report of the auditors on page 41, which includes a statement by the auditors in respect of their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and clear assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and other key business risks, for example, the production and sale of counterfeit products, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control and has used external consultants to assist in this review.
It believes that adequate risk management procedures are in place within the Group.
The Group will be implementing a number of improvements to strengthen these procedures.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control The Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place in respect of the Burberry business throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process will be regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with The Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows: Risk assessment The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial, compliance and other risks.
Specific consideration is given to the identification of risk factors, and the appropriate control measures for such factors as part of the Groups annual budgeting cycle.
The executive directors formally meet on a quarterly basis to re-evaluate these risk factors in the context of the then current environment and business activity.
A risk register is updated twice every year, or more often if required.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Control environment and control activities The Group consists of a number of trading units, each with its own management and control structure.
These units report to the executive directors.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation of authorities to ensure that operations considered significant by value or by their impact on the Group are considered at an appropriate level.
The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are either already laid down or are currently being established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and physical and data security.
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include internal control and the use of third-party services to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches are used, such as the use of insurance, and treasury instruments to hedge specific foreign currency exposures.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results, supported by commentary and performance measures, is provided to the Board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance.
A summary of risk factors and relevant control measures identified as part of the budgeting cycle is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit Committee at the beginning of each year.
This report is updated at the half-year, and re-submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets with both external and internal auditors and, if it so chooses, can do so without the presence of executive directors.
Monitoring A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group.
These include management review, management confirmations of compliance with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, particularly those relating to the areas of greater financial risk or opportunity.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the accounting period under review with the following exceptions: The Combined Code states that there is a strong case for setting directors notice or contract termination periods at, or reducing them to, one year or less.
The service agreement of Rose Marie Bravo dated 28 May 2002 is for an initial fixed period until 30 June 2005.
She may terminate the agreement on six months notice to expire on or after 30 June 2005.
Burberry can terminate the agreement in certain circumstances as described on page 27.
Burberry adopted at the time of the IPO various share incentive schemes, which are not compliant with the Combined Code in certain respects.
In particular there are no performance conditions attached to these schemes.
At the forthcoming AGM, Burberry will be proposing that shareholders adopt a Restricted Share Plan which will be subject to performance conditions.
Further details of this plan are set out in the circular relating to the 2004 AGM.
24 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
