REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and comprises all the non-executive directors.
The meetings may be attended by executive directors, as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
All members of the Committee are independent, non-executive directors.
The Chairman does not chair the Nominations Committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship, in which case the Committee is chaired by the Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met four times during 2004.
Duties The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Before making an appointment, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee reviews annually the time required from a nonexecutive director.
The annual performance evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive director is spending enough time to full his duties.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Committee uses external advisers to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
The Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, if appropriate, makes recommendations for change to the Board.
In this respect, the Committee has regard to the results of the annual performance evaluation.
The Committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Activities The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on succession for executive directors, the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of their specified term of ofce, any matter relating to the continuation in ofce of any director at any time and the appointment of any director to executive or other ofce.
The Group Chief Executive, David Prosser, will retire from the Group in March 2006.
The role of the Committee will be to recommend to the Board, after due process, a suitable successor.
The timescale of the process has been designed to permit an orderly transfer of responsibilities.
Corporate Website The terms of reference of the Committee, which sets out the role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and can be viewed on the Companys website.
The formal letters of appointment of non-executive directors are also available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
