CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of In order that shareholders present are aware of the other shareholders The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 voting intentions, the details of proxy votes are distributed immediately the Combined Code and the associated Turnbull Guidance, as prior to the AGM.
annexed to the Listing Rules of the Markets Division of the Financial Services Authority FSA except in respect of the publication of proxy Board Committees votes at the Annual General Meeting AGM, which is referred to The Remuneration Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility below.
This process is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance for Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Group Risk & Compliance directors issued in 1999.
Committee and the Audit Committee are standing Committees of the Board.
The role and operation of the Remuneration Committee is set The Board out in the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 37 to 42.
The The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is set out on its operating and financial position.
The Board has a formal schedule pages 28 and 29. of matters specically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
The Board meets at Nominations Committee least 11 times during the year.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is composed of all non-executive directors.
It is responsible for As part of its regular evaluation the Board considered the Chairmans proposing the appointment of new Board directors.
In doing so, it availability and capacity to undertake his role, against the background considers the composition of the Board, the demands made on the of the Chairmans other commitments.
The Board was satisfied that the Board and its committees, and the requirements of good corporate Chairman is able to full the normal time commitments required and governance.
The Report of the Nominations Committee is set out has the spare capacity to make himself available when unforeseen on page 45. circumstances dictate.
Group Risk & Compliance Committee GRCC Directors The GRCC is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and is composed Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board on of all the executive directors together with senior managers drawn the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
New directors from across the Group in attendance.
Its primary have a formal induction programme.
The Board and its directors are role is to ensure there are appropriate processes in place across the subject to annual appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual Group to identify, assess, monitor and control critical risks facing contributions and group achievement.
In 2004 the appraisal was the Group, including regulatory risks.
It reports regularly to the Group facilitated by an external consultant and culminated in individual Board and its minutes are available to the Audit Committee.
The directors interviews with the Chairman in the case of the Chairman, Chairman of the Audit Committee attends its meetings.
the interview was conducted by the Vice Chairman.
A full report was provided to the Board and consequent actions agreed.
All Audit Committee directors must submit themselves for re-election at an AGM once The Audit Committee is chaired by Barrie Morgans.
Frances Heaton, every three years.
Henry Staunton and James Strachan are its other members.
It met There is a continuing training programme for directors and four times during the year to: senior managers which includes educational and business Review and advise the Board on the Groups interim and annual awareness presentations.
financial statements, its accounting policies, and on the control The majority of the Board are independent non-executive directors.
of its financial and business risks: and They have wide business experience.
Their remuneration consists only Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by of fees.
They have access to all information relating to the Group, the the external and internal auditors, the results of that work and advice and services of the Group Secretary and, as required, external managements response: and advice at the expense of the Group.
At the end of 2004 there were eight non-executive directors.
Make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and review the non-audit services provided There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman to the Group by the external auditors.
and the Group Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and directors are clearly dened, so as to give no The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and individual unfettered powers of decision.
The Vice Chairman the management, as well as privately with both external and internal Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors auditors.
The Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the are independent.
Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the The Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 43 to 44. appointment of new directors to the Board.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality Internal Control appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and Relations with Shareholders maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good the executive directors and senior management.
The performance of relationships with shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee, institutional shareholders.
However, care is exercised to ensure GRCC and the boards of subsidiary companies.
that any price-sensitive information is released at the same time to all shareholders, institutional and private, in accordance with The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance of its the requirements of the Listing Rules.
businesses compared with their one year plans, as well as other key performance indicators.
The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
Board members, Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly dened.
including the chairmen of the Remuneration, Nominations and The Groups control policies and procedures are set out in an Audit Committees, attend the meeting and are available to operating manual, which is regularly updated and distributed answer questions.
Executive directors are required to confirm Legal & General Annual Report 2004 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued compliance with these policies throughout the year.
The results procedures and controls in place to manage their permitted of this conrmation process are reported to the Audit Committee.
regulatory activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising from authorised rms compliance responsibilities.
The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the key risks to the Group are set out below.
Management of Risk The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies for The Group, in course of its business activities, is exposed to Insurance, employee selection, assessment and development and have direct Market, Credit, Liquidity, and Operational risks.
Overall responsibility involvement in senior management appointments.
Succession for the management of these risks is vested in the Group Board.
To planning and contingency arrangements are in place for senior support it in this role, a risk framework is in place comprising formal management and have been reviewed by the Board.
The Group committees, risk assessment processes and review functions.
The seeks to conduct business in accordance with ethical principles framework provides assurance that risks are being appropriately and there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
identied and managed and that an independent assessment of risks is being performed.
Review of Internal Control The Combined Code requires directors to review and report to Committee Structure shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, which include Oversight of the risk management framework is performed on behalf financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
of the Group Board by its sub committee, the GRCC.
In order to provide more detailed management of Credit, Market, Liquidity and Insurance Established procedures, including those already described, are in risks across the Group, the following sub committees of the GRCC are place to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board assesses the in place: effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: Committee Role Membership regular reports by management to their main operating boards, and Group Credit To set limits for the Group Director the Audit Committee, on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal Committee Groups exposure to any Finance control systems and significant control issues: and single counter-party Group Director the GRCCs review of the continuous group-wide process for formally failure and to manage Investments identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the exposures within these Group Treasurer achievement of the Groups objectives: and established limits.
compliance reports and presentations from the Director Group Asset To ensure that the Group Director Compliance on, at least, a quarterly basis: and & Liability Groups assets and Finance Committee liabilities are Group Director presentations of the results of internal audits to the Audit Committee The Group appropriately Investments by the Group Chief Internal Auditor.
Group Actuary The Board takes regular account of the signicance of social, Actuary UK environmental and ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
Managing Director The GRCCs review of the significant risks to the Group includes these Portfolio Managers matters.
The work of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Group Pricing To ensure that products Group Director which is chaired by the Director Resources and International, is set & Insurance are appropriately Product & Corporate out on pages 28 to 29.
Risk Committee designed and priced, Group Actuary that product legal Actuary UK The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and risks are assessed Director and that appropriate UK Finance can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable processes are in place assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to the relationship to identify, assess, between the cost of, and benefit from, internal control systems.
monitor and, where deemed appropriate, The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational and reinsure risk.
compliance controls, and the risk management process, are reported to the Board.
The Board was able to conclude, with reasonable In addition, Risk & Compliance Committees RCCs are in place assurance, that appropriate internal control systems had been for each of the main operational business units of the Group.
These maintained throughout the year.
committees are predominantly responsible for the management of operational risks and regulation.
RCCs formally report both to Internal Audit their operating boards and to the GRCC on a monthly basis.
Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective: are adequate to manage business Risk Assessment Processes risk: safeguard the Groups resources: and ensure compliance with A continuous Group-wide process is in place formally identifying, legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement on risk and control to senior management and the Board.
A standard approach is used to assess risks.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group Senior management and the Risk Review Functions see below review as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving the output of the assessments.
A Group-wide Risk Assessment process executive directors and senior managers.
The output from this process is used to provide determination of key risks within the Group reported is summarised in a plan which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Internal Auditor reports regularly to the Group Chief Executive and to the Audit Committee.
Risk Review Functions Group and rm level Risk Review Functions provide oversight of the risk Compliance management processes within the Group.
A central risk function is The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight of the responsible for setting the risk management framework and Groups compliance with regulatory requirements and standards.
standards: Risk Review Functions in each of the business operating This encompasses the provision of policy advice and guidance units manage the framework in line with these standards.
Their to the regulated rms, oversight of regulated rms compliance responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business arrangements to assess whether rms have appropriate systems, operating environment and business processes, the assessment 34 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 of these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the limits.
Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury mitigating actions.
The Risk Review Functions also ensure that risk transactions is monitored daily.
The Group Credit Committee committees are provided with meaningful risk reports and that oversees these processes.
there is appropriate information to assess risk issues.
Liquidity Risk Details of the categories of risk to the Group and high-level Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not management processes are set out below.
The Group has dened have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meets its policies for the management of its key risks, the operation of which obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive costs.
are supported by Risk Review Functions and are independently confirmed by Group Internal Audit.
The GRCC reviews and approves A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Groups businesses.
risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty surrounding the value and timing of cash ows.
The Groups Treasury function manages Insurance Risk liquidity to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets and Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims being experienced standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash outows than was anticipated.
over a period of two years.
The Group ALCO oversees the management of liquidity risk.
Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and arises as a consequence of the type and volume of new business written, Operational Risk the concentration of risk in particular policies or groups of policies Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal subject to the same risks.
processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The Group controls its insurance exposures through underwriting and The Group identies and assesses operational risk as part of its pricing authorities which set out the risks which may be accepted.
RCCs ensure that appropriate Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, policies and procedures are in place for these risks and that they are which have regard to past experience and to trends.
There are detailed procedures covering specic exposures are further limited through reinsurance.
Reinsurance may be used to reduce potential loss to the Group from individual large risks or catastrophic events.
It may also be used Contagion Risk The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in to manage capital or to provide access to specialist underwriting expertise.
Reinsurance is predominantly ceded by treaties which contagion risk elsewhere in the Group.
Such matters are assessed and monitored by the GRCC.
automatically cover a proportion of all risks meeting prescribed criteria.
The principal General Insurance reinsurances are excess of loss Prudential Regulations of Insurance Business catastrophe treaties, under which the excess of accumulation of Most of the activities of the Group relate to the businesses which are claims from an event, above an agreed retention level, is recovered subject to prudential regulation and require management to operate from reinsurers.
The effective retention for 2005 is 35m 2004: 30m in a sound and prudent manner.
In the UK, the Financial Services and and this represents the maximum net probable loss from any one Markets Act 2000 the Act established the Financial Services Authority event within our principal household account.
FSA as the regulator for most Group operations.
The Act, in particular, requires long term insurance business to be written within long term The Group Pricing & Insurance Risk Committee has oversight for insurance funds, for which the actuaries appointed under the Act the management of insurance risk across the Group.
These actuaries are subject to the disciplines of professional conduct and guidance and have Market Risk a reporting relationship to the directors of the relevant insurance Market risk is the risk arising from uctuations in interest and exchange company and to the FSA.
The Actuaries have access to their boards rates and market valuations which may affect assets, liabilities and and must report fully and impartially on the financial condition of the mismatch between the two.
the funds, annually quantifying and conrming each funds liabilities The Group ALCO establishes investment policies for shareholders and solvency position.
The FSA receives a copy of these reports, and policyholders funds on the basis of sound asset liability which are also subject to audit and overall peer review.
Going Concern The investment policies for long term and other businesses have The directors have prepared the financial statements on the due regard to the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other going concern basis consistent with their view, formed after embedded options given to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of making appropriate enquiries, that the Group is operationally such liabilities is normally managed by investing in assets of similar and nancially robust.
It is further managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under a number of adverse scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
The Group is also potentially exposed to loss as a result of uctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated in foreign currencies.
Balance sheet foreign exchange translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows between 25% and 75% of net foreign currency assets to be hedged.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Credit risk is not sought in its own right.
However, the investment of shareholders and policyholders monies requires credit risks to be taken.
Exposure to credit risk also arises in the reinsurance of insurance contracts.
Credit risk is managed through the setting and regular review of detailed counterparty credit and concentration Legal & General Annual Report 2004 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board Committees The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Group Risk & Board Remuneration Audit CSR Nominations Compliance Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Rob Margetts 11 11 4 4 Non-executive Chairman Kate Avery 11 11 11 12 Executive Group Director Retail Distribution Tim Breedon 11 11 3 3 11 12 Executive Group Director Investments Frances Heaton 11 11 4 4 4 4 Non-executive director Beverley Hodson 11 11 3 3 4 4 Non-executive director Barrie Morgans 9 11 3 4 4 4 Non-executive Chairman of the Audit Committee Andrew Palmer 11 11 9 12 Executive director Group Director Finance Robin Phipps 11 11 12 12 Executive director Group Director UK Operations John Pollock 11 11 11 12 Executive director Group Director Product & Corporate David Prosser 11 11 12 12 Executive Group Chief Executive Ronaldo Schmitz 9 11 2 3 4 4 Non-executive director Henry Staunton 7 7 2 2 3 3 Non-executive director James Strachan 11 11 1 1 4 4 2 2 4 4 Non-executive director Sir David Walker 11 11 3 3 4 4 Non-executive Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee & Senior Independent Director Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the director was a Board or Committee member.
The Directors non-attendance was attributed to either an absence due to illness or an absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
