REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an understanding of the following areas: The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of Legal & General Group Plc.
It is a the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial Committee of the Board established pursuant to Article 107 reporting including the applicable accounting standards and of the Articles of Association.
statements of recommended practice: The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters key aspects of the companys operations including corporate policies, indicated by the Combined Code, except the oversight of company nancing, products and systems of internal control: compliance risks, including adherence to the Financial Services matters that inuence or distort the presentation of accounts and and Markets Act 2000, which is the direct responsibility of the key gures: Board.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specic laws and other relevant corporate legislation: The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in fullling its responsibilities relating to: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: external financial reporting and associated announcements: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and the independence of the Groups external auditors: environmental and social responsibility best practices.
the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit Department: Meetings the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: and The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
the Groups compliance with the Combined Code: The Combined The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by Code on Corporate Governance.
the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members: each The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters Board, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to company documents The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group and information, as well as to employees of the company and the Director Finance, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal external auditor.
Auditor, Group Actuary and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the Composition of the Audit Committee right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior The members of the Audit Committee are: management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Date of appointment Barrie Morgans was unable to attend the July meeting of the Barrie Morgans 5 March 1998 and appointed as Audit Committee as a result of illness, but attended the other three Chairman on 12 December 2001 meetings in 2004.
All other Audit Committee meetings were fully attended during the year.
Frances Heaton 14 November 2001 Tim Parker 22 July 2002 and resigned 5 July 2004 Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee James Strachan 21 January 2004 to discharge its duties Henry Staunton 26 July 2004 In order to full its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior Sir David Walker 22 July 2002 and resigned management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors 21 January 2004 and the independent actuaries.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to full its Committee, Barrie Morgans, and the Group Chairman, who is not responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and associated a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they announcements.
The Committee reviewed the interim and annual recommend new appointments to the Nominations Committee for financial statements, together with the Stock Exchange onward recommendation to the Board.
Appointments are for a period announcements, having received information on: of three years and are extendable by no more than two additional the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted three year periods.
The Committee is normally comprised of four in the Groups accounts: independent non-executive directors, with a minimum of three members at any time.
changes proposed to those principles, policies and practices: The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one nancially significant accounting issues: qualied member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of current actuarial issues: Accountancy Bodies.
Currently both the Audit Committee Chairman and Henry Staunton full this requirement.
All Audit Committee the level of insurance provisions and reserves: members are expected to be nancially literate and to have relevant litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: and corporate finance experience.
potential tax contingencies and the Groups compliance with The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee statutory tax obligations.
members and on-going training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to full its role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of commitment by members: and an overview of the Groups business, the control environment and the Groups compliance with the including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
To full these duties, the Committee reviewed: Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff.
On-going the minutes of the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings: training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briengs by external advisers.
the external auditors annual Internal Control Report: Legal & General Annual Report 2004 43 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Internal Audit reports on key audit areas and significant control Internal Audit function environment deficiencies: The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to full its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and reports on the systems of internal controls and risk management: and plans of the Internal Audit department.
To full these duties, the reports on frauds perpetrated against the Group and current Committee reviewed: fraud trends.
Internal Audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access The Audit Committee Chairman reported back to the Committee on to the Audit Committee and all members of the Board: the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings which he attended.
Internal Audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external of managements response and the timeliness of resolution: audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and the statistics on staff numbers, qualications and experience and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day timeliness of reporting: and responsibility to the Group Director Finance.
The policy states that the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by Internal Audit.
the external auditors are jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Chief Internal Auditor to receive, in confidence, complaints on The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of nonaccounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
The policy requires pre-conrmation by the Audit Committee of any non-audit work.
The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors and with the Group Chief Internal Auditor after each To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the external Committee meeting to review key issues within their spheres of auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: interest and responsibility.
the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to for the current year: answer questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the report the arrangements for day to day management of the audit on the Audit Committees activities, matters within the scope of the relationship: Audit Committees responsibilities and any significant matters brought to the Audit Committees attention by the external auditor.
a report identifying the number of external audit staff now employed by the Group and their positions within the Group: The Corporate Governance pages of the Legal & General website provide supplementary information including the terms of reference a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements for the Audit Committee, the Groups policy on external audit, and to identify, report and manage any conicts of interest: and a more detailed explanation of the actions taken by the Audit the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external Committee to full its duties.
auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
To full its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Audit Committee reviewed: the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: the external auditors fee proposal: the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: the key accounting and audit judgements: the levels of errors identied during the audit: and the recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letter and the adequacy of managements response.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee have recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
