corporate governance Application of Combined Code principles Remuneration Committee The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate The members of the Committee are Brian Lavers Chairman, Alan Cole Governance and this statement describes how the principles of Good and Michael Calvey and it determines the Groups Executive Directors Governance set out in Section 1 of the Revised Combined Code remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors fees are considered and agreed the FRC Code issued in July 2003 are applied.
Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration are given in the Remuneration Committees report on pages 30 to 33.
The Board of Directors During 2004 the Board comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors Nominations Committee and four Non-Executive Directors, of which one, Alan Cole, is considered The members of the Committee are Brian Lavers Chairman, Alan Cole independent under the terms of the FRC Code published in July 2003. and Michael Calvey.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for making All of the Directors bring informed judgement to bear on issues of strategy, recommendations to the Board in relation to the structure and composition performance, resources, key appointments and standards and there is of the Board.
Any proposed changes are discussed with other Board a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief members and major shareholders.
In relation to new appointments, these Executive officer.
Brief biographical details in respect of the Directors groups are invited to suggest potential candidates.
The Nominations are included on pages 16 and 17.
Committee will recommend its preferred candidate to the Board.
The Board meets regularly, but no less than six times throughout the year and all the necessary information is supplied to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
The Directors Internal controls have access to independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the systems of if and when required.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved internal control for the Group and the Company and for reviewing for consideration by the Board, which include the Groups strategy, their effectiveness.
expenditure commitments, investments and disposals, borrowing and hedging policy.
The Groups internal control procedures include formal consideration of delegations of authorities to executive management by the Board.
A performance evaluation of the Board and its individual Directors and Such delegations are reviewed by the Board at least annually and ofcers was undertaken in 2004.
The process was led by the Chairman approved together with the annual budget.
A Risk Committee comprising and based around questionnaires circulated to and completed by the the Chief Financial officer, Chief Operating officer and the Company Board.
The Chairman collected responses and reported to the Board on Secretary is charged with the identication, monitoring and management the results of the exercise.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman of risk generally and is required to review and formally approve all material was co-ordinated by the independent Non-Executive Director, Alan Cole.
These processes are complemented by effective monitoring and approval at each stage in the cycle of transactions and by a regular The Memorandum and Articles of Association require that at least one detailed reporting system.
third of the Board must go forward for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting AGM each year, together with all new Directors The Directors consider that the frequency of Board meetings and level appointed since the previous AGM.
Accordingly, no Director will serve of detail presented to the Board for its consideration in relation to the a term of ofce in excess of three years.
The Directors who are due to operations of the Group provide an appropriate process to identify, go forward for reappointment in the forthcoming AGM are Alan Cole, evaluate and manage significant risks relevant to its operations on a Andrei Pannikov and Atul Gupta.
continuous basis, and this process is considered to be in accordance with Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the FRC Code.
The Board has appointed the following subcommittees: Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
Audit Committee The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal This Committee, which comprises Alan Cole Chairman, Brian Lavers financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and Michael Calvey, reviews the annual financial statements, internal during the year, consider that the system of internal control operated control matters and the scope and effectiveness of external audit.
appropriately throughout the financial year and up to the date that the Representatives of senior management and the external auditors financial statements were signed.
normally attend meetings though such attendance is at the invitation of the Committee.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviews the necessity for the establishment of an internal audit function but currently Communication with shareholders considers that, given the extent of the operations of the Group and the Burren Energy attaches great importance to shareholder communication direct involvement of senior management in control activities, there is and intends to maintain a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, no requirement for such a function.
including presentations following announcements of year-end and interim results.
Burren has a website which contains a range of corporate The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that auditor objectivity information.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting.
and independence is maintained, and Audit Committee approval is required to engage the external auditors in a non-audit capacity.
During 2004 all major shareholders had direct representation on the Board.
Accordingly the requirement for a detailed external communications strategy was somewhat lessened.
As the shareholder prole of the Company change greater emphasis will be placed on assuring effective communication to reect the growing signicance of other shareholders.
BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 27 corporate governance continued Compliance with FRC Code provisions B. Remuneration The Company is regarded as a smaller company in relation to the The Remuneration Committee did not include at least two application of the principles of the FRC Code during the year ended independent Non-Executive Directors during 2004 Code provision 31 December 2004.
The Directors consider that Burren Energy Plc B.
A second independent Non-Executive Director, Keith Henry, has complied, throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, with was appointed to the Committee on 31 March 2005.
Section 1 of the provisions of the FRC Code except for the matters referred to below: The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee were not made publicly available during 2004 Code provision B.
Directors are to be made available shortly on the Companys website.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has not been set out in writing and considered formally by the Board Code provision A.
C. Accountability and audit Only one independent Non-Executive Director served on The Audit Committee did not include at least two independent the Board during 2004 Code provision A.
A second Non-Executive Directors during 2004 and the Committee was not independent Non-Executive Director, Keith Henry, was comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors Code appointed to the Board on 31 March 2005. provision C. 3.1.
A second independent Non-Executive Director, Keith Henry, was appointed to the Committee on 31 March 2005.
The Board has not formally designated a senior independent director.
It was considered unnecessary to do so given that only The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were not made one Director was regarded as independent during 2004 Code publicly available during 2004 Code provision C. 3.3.
The matter will be reconsidered in 2005. to be made available shortly on the Companys website.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were not No formal arrangements existed during 2004 whereby staff of publicly available during 2004 Code provision A.
These are the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible to be made available shortly on the Companys website.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee has requested that management put appropriate Pierre Lasry was appointed to the Board on 11 February 2004 arrangements in place during 2005 Code provision C. 3.4. following the death of his business partner, Andreas Dossenbach, who was serving as a Director at the time.
Messrs Lasry and Dossenbach were interested in 23,595,000 ordinary shares in Burren representing 22% of its issued share capital.
Due to the nature and circumstances of the appointment, the Nomination Committee did not prepare a description of the role and capabilities sought Code provision A.
Neither was it considered necessary or appropriate to make use of external search consultants or open advertising Code provision A.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors were not publicly available during 2004 Code provision A.
These are to be made available shortly on the Companys website.
There was no formal conrmation to shareholders as to the effectiveness of performance and commitment to the role of Director exhibited by Michael Calvey and Brian Lavers in connection with the resolutions presented at the Annual General Meeting in May 2004 to re-elect them as directors Code provision A.
The Nominations Committee did not include at least two independent Non-Executive Directors during 2004 Code provision B.
28 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Attendance records Attendance records for meetings of the main Board, and meetings of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out below: Board 21 Jan 10 Feb 31 Mar 28 Apr 22 Jun 7 Jul 22 Jul 15 Sep 1 Dec Michael Calvey Andrew Rose Brian Lavers Pierre Lasry Andrei Pannikov Atul Gupta Alan Cole Finian OSullivan Audit Committee 24 Mar 9 Sep 25 Nov Michael Calvey Brian Lavers Alan Cole Nominations Committee 31 Mar 15 Sep Brian Lavers Alan Cole Michael Calvey Remuneration Committee 31 Mar 25 Nov Brian Lavers Alan Cole Michael Calvey Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 29
