Corporate Governance Subject to the comments below The Board has six scheduled meetings a In order to ensure an appropriate balance regarding the independence of the year and meets more frequently as required.
between cost-effectiveness, objectivity senior non-executive director and and independence, the Audit Committee of a member of the Remuneration The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive also reviews the nature of all services Committee, the Companys Board is are distinct and separate with a clear provided by the external auditors each satisfied that it has complied with the division of responsibilities.
Factors taken into consideration provisions of the 1998 Combined Code include: cost, appropriate use of the Principles of Good Governance and Directors serving on the Boards auditors existing business knowledge Code of Best Practice issued in 1998 committees are identified on the Board and their procedures for ensuring the 1998 Combined Code during of Directors pages 32 and 33. compliance with professional and the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Company Companys Board believes that these The Remuneration Committee is chaired normally expects to retain the external exceptions are justified given the wide by Nigel Stapleton and comprises three auditors to provide audit-related services, experience and calibre of the two nonother non-executive directors.
One member including work in relation to shareholder executive directors concerned.
of the Committee is not regarded as and other circulars and transaction being independent and, in this respect, related work, and certain tax and similar The Financial Reporting Council adopted the Company does not comply fully with services.
The external auditors have a revised Combined Code for reporting the 1998 Combined Code.
The Committee provided no general consulting or periods beginning on or after 1 November has written terms of reference and meets internal audit services during the year.
The Company largely complies at least twice a year to review and present with the new Code and is working recommendations to the Board regarding The Nomination Committee is chaired towards further compliance with this remuneration and conditions of service by Chris Gibson-Smith and comprises new Code where appropriate during of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other non-executive directors.
executive directors, including the grant The Committee meets as necessary of entitlements under the Companys to make recommendations to the Board Under the provisions of the new Code, share schemes.
A separate Remuneration on all new Board appointments.
the Board is required both to determine report is set out on pages 36 to 43. the independence of non-executive INTERNAL CONTROL directors and to ensure a balance of The Audit Committee is chaired by The Board confirms that procedures independent non-executive directors.
Gary Allen and comprises four other have been in place throughout the year The Company will be seeking to recruit non-executive directors.
It has written and up to the date of this report which new directors to enable it to meet the terms of reference and meets at least comply fully with the guidance Internal Combined Code requirements.
twice a year, normally with the external Control: Guidance for Directors on the auditors present, to consider the audit Combined Code published by the BOARD OF DIRECTORS plan and the interim and annual results, Internal Control Working Party of the At 31 March 2004, the Board comprised as well as any matters raised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in nine non-executive directors, including auditors.
It also reviews the adequacy England & Wales in September 1999. the Chairman and Deputy Chairman and and effectiveness of the key systems three executive directors.
However with of internal control and monitors the effect from 1 April 2004 Martin Wheatley efficiency and independence of the ceased to be a director and the Board internal audit function.
The Committee now comprises two executive directors reviews the Companys financial and nine non-executive directors.
statements and makes recommendations Of the non-executive directors, regarding their approval by the Board Gary Allen, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, as a whole.
Nigel Stapleton and Robert Webb QC are considered to have been fully independent during the year within the meaning of the 1998 Combined Code.
The senior non-executive director, who is not regarded as being independent, is Ian Salter.
34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 The Companys systems of internal Audit Committee the Companys RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS control over business, operational, internal audit department reports The Company conducts regular dialogue financial and compliance risks are to the Audit Committee on the with institutional investors, holding designed to help the Company meet its effectiveness of key risk management meetings throughout the year in the UK business objectives by appropriately and internal control procedures and and on overseas visits.
Communication managing, rather than eliminating, the appropriate action is taken where with shareholders also takes place by risks to those objectives.
The Audit Committee also way of annual and interim reports, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, receives reports from the Companys quarterly trading updates and through the assurance against material misstatement external auditors.
presentation of preliminary and interim or loss.
The Board has ultimate results, which are made accessible to all responsibility for the systems of internal Risk management effective risk investors by webcasts available on the control and, through the Audit Committee, management is the responsibility Investor Relations section of our website has reviewed the effectiveness of the of all line managers and each business at: www.
The Board is committed to area updates and evaluates its their continual enhancement.
documented key risks and controls as The Annual General Meeting AGM necessary.
Periodic reports confirming provides the opportunity for shareholders The principal features of the Companys the effectiveness of all significant to question the Board and meet informally control framework are described under control policies and procedures are after the event.
The procedures for the the following headings: produced by management and AGM are compliant with the 1998 reviewed by the most senior executive Combined Code and the event is Delegation of authority matters in each business area.
The Companys normally attended by all directors.
reserved for Board approval only are internal audit department reviews clearly defined.
Executive directors HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE these reports and independently have general responsibility for making ENVIRONMENT summarises any significant matters and implementing operational decisions The Companys approach to health, arising for the Audit Committee.
and for overseeing the Companys safety and the environment is set out business.
All directors have access to in our Corporate & Social Responsibility Detailed procedures procedures the advice and services of the statement on page 28. and controls for key business areas Company Secretary.
In addition all including the Companys finance directors are able, if necessary to function are set out in detailed obtain independent professional departmental manuals.
These are advice at the Companys expense.
reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet changing business needs.
Planning and reporting the Board approves strategic decisions and the budget for the forthcoming year and receives a report on key business matters from the Chief Executive at each meeting.
Monthly reports to management contain key performance indicators and compare actual financial performance with the annual budget or forecast.
Management action is taken where variances arise and revised forecasts are prepared on a regular basis.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35
