corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This section contains: Social, environmental and ethical report 53 Directors report 59 Directors and senior management 57 Directors remuneration report 66 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL REPORT Cable & Wireless recognises the importance of building Ethics sound relationships with all of its stakeholders and is Cable & Wireless has a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which committed to approaching social, ethical and environmental was adopted by the Board to provide a set of standards and matters in the same way as it approaches core business guidelines for the way that Cable & Wireless and its activities.
The Board therefore sets standards of behaviour employees should operate.
The Ethics Policy covers a range that go beyond minimum legal standards.
of issues including employee conduct, non-discrimination, health, safety and environmental obligations.
The Company Board review of social, environmental and ethical recognises that the Corporate Responsibility Steering issues Groups work, and in particular on ethics, will evolve over time.
The Company is committed to the continuous The Board of Cable and Wireless plc takes regular account improvement of its Ethics Policy and its practical of the signicance of social, ethical and environmental implementation.
Breaches of the Ethics Policy are viewed matters to the business.
The Board identies and assesses seriously.
During the year disciplinary action has been taken whether there are any potential significant risks to the in respect of breaches of Company policy.
Companys short and long term value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, as well as opportunities The Ethics Policy contains notication procedures setting out to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate a variety of channels through which employees can raise response.
concerns related to ethical conduct.
The intention is that issues are generally dealt with at local business unit level Specically the Board: but employees are also able to raise issues with the Chairman or Chief Executive officer of Cable and Wireless r receives a report from management on the Groups plc or through other contacts at head ofce, as named in the social, ethical and environmental performance on an Ethics Policy.
A full version of the Ethics Policy is available annual basis and more frequently if required: on www.
r appointed Lord Robertson of Port Ellen to be responsible for social, ethical and environmental matters In addition to the Groups Ethics Policy, which applies to all from March 2004: Group employees, pursuant to the requirements of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the Board has adopted a Code r arranged for the co-ordination and management of of Ethics specically applicable to the Chief Executive social, ethical and environmental matters to be carried officer, the Chief Financial officer, the heads of Group out by an internal Corporate Responsibility Steering finance functions and the finance heads of each geographic Group, to be chaired by Lord Robertson of Port Ellen division.
This Code of Ethics is available on www.
and include representation from across the Group.
The Steering Group is responsible for identifying emerging Community investment corporate responsibility issues which are material to the business, creating a system to monitor, manage and Good corporate citizenship has been part of the corporate evaluate corporate responsibility activity and for ethos of Cable & Wireless for more than a century.
As a reporting and communication on corporate major business, Cable & Wireless makes a substantial responsibility issues: and economic contribution to the many communities in which it r has ensured that the companys risk management operates.
At the same time, its own business success depends process includes an assessment of social, ethical and upon the economic and social well-being of those same environmental risk.
The Board has identied the following social, ethical and This mutual dependence is at the heart of Cable & Wireless environmental issues as being of significant importance to commitment to make a positive social contribution to the the business: communities in which it operates.
