The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance When a new Director is appointed there is an induction process which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust company carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, on and which enables the Company to comply with the Combined a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code issued by and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance in 1998 with Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the the exception that the Board has not identified a senior Board as they arise.
independent non-executive Director for the reason given below.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior independent non-executive Director has not been identified The Board has considered the new Combined Code on Corporate as the Board considers that this is not appropriate for a Board of Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July this size which wholly consists of non-executive Directors.
The 2003 which is effective for reporting years beginning on or after Board believes that length of service does not diminish the 1 November 2003.
The Board intends to apply the provisions of contribution from an investment trust director and that a the new code, as far as practicable, during the year ending 31 Directors experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is January 2005 and will make a compliance statement in next years of positive benefit to the Board.
The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day The Board considers that the Company has complied with the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract applicable provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board Code throughout the accounting period to 31 January 2004. of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial Much of this statement describes how the relevant principles of control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs governance are applied to the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards The Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC published statement on its review of the management contract appears on its Code of Corporate Governance in July 2003.
The Board intends page 42. to comply with the AITC Code as far as practicable and where appropriate, and will report more fully on compliance with the Board Committees AITC Code in the Annual Report for the year ending 31 January The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non- 2005. executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has defined terms of reference and duties.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Joe Scott Plummer.
This committee meets at least The Board twice each year and reviews the annual accounts and interim The Board currently consists of five Directors, all of whom are nonreport and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with executive and deemed by the Board to be independent of the their remuneration as well as any non-audit services provided by Companys investment manager.
Their biographies, on page 39, the auditors.
It meets representatives of the investment manager demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, commercial and and receives reports on the internal controls maintained on professional experience.
behalf of the Company and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
In accordance with the Articles of Association new Directors stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and appointment and then at least one third of Directors retire by makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors.
rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
Every Director is The Committee is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of required to seek re-election at least every three years.
All Directors serve on the Committee and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes ad hoc meetings as and when required.
Between meetings regular contact The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once with the investment manager is maintained.
Matters specifically each year to review the Management Agreement and the reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a Managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and procedure adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, consists of the non-executive directors and excludes any directors to take independent professional advice at the expense of the previously employed by the Managers.
It is chaired by Hugh Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the The Terms of Reference for each of the Committees may be Company complies with applicable rules and regulations.
viewed by shareholders on request.
36 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Accountability and Audit The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians The Directors statement of responsibility in respect of the systems of controls and approves the appointment of subaccounts is on page 35 and a statement of going concern is on custodians.
The Audit Committee also receives reports from page 40. the Managers and Custodians internal auditors, compliance department and independent auditors.
The Report of the Independent Auditors can be found on page 34.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control Internal Control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system Relations with Shareholders of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for The Board strongly believes that the Annual General Meeting the system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to system can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance attend.
The Annual General meeting is attended by the Chairman against material misstatement or loss.
of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be established and which are designed to provide effective internal made available at the Annual General Meeting.
control are as follows: The Board, assisted by the Managers undertook a full review of The Managers meet with institutional shareholders on a regular the Companys business risks and these are analysed and basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
The Board receives every six months from the Managers a formal report which details any known All correspondence with Shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Managers.
The Board continues to Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the check that good systems of internal control and risk Chairman or other Directors may write care of the Company management are embedded in the operations and culture of Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
the Company and its key suppliers.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Managers provides investment management, custodial, Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive accounting and company secretarial services to the Company.
The Managers therefore maintain the internal controls associated with the day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are included in the Management Environmental Policy Agreement between the Company and the Managers whose The Investment Managers have been directed by the Board to take system of internal control includes organisation arrangements account of companies environmental performance when taking with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated investment decisions.
authority as well as control procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its Exercise of Voting Powers internal audit department.
RCM UK Limited is regulated by The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The the Financial Services Authority FSA and its compliance Board has delegated discretion to the Managers to exercise voting department regularly monitors compliance with FSAs rules.
There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and The Managers use a proxy voting service which casts votes in any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive accordance with the guidelines of the National Association of review by the Board of management accounting information Pension Funds NAPF research material, unless its clients request including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue a very specific policy to be voted by its fund managers.
against projections, and performance comparisons.
Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in the Board.
which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
