Corporate Governance and Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate it to discharge its duties.
Strategic issues and all operational governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for matters of a material nature are determined by the Board.
corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an The directors retire by rotation at every third AGM and any investment trust and which enables the Company to comply directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best retire and stand for election.
Although both the Chairman and Practice the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Mr Evans are over 70, they are remaining on the Board, pending Corporate Governance, published in June 1998. shareholder approval of the reconstruction proposals and the The Board considers that the Company has complied with the winding-up of the Company.
Their knowledge of the Company provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code and its history, together with their extensive experience, was felt throughout this accounting period and this statement describes by their fellow Board members to be invaluable to the Company how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the whilst details of the reconstruction were finalised.
reconstruction proposals are approved, the Board will cease to have responsibility for the Company on the appointment of the A revised Combined Code and AITC Code of Corporate liquidators in September 2004.
Governance were issued in July 2003.
The revised Combined Code is effective for financial years starting on or after The Board meets at least six times a year and between these 1 November 2003.
The Board is in the course of reviewing and meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
applying the additional requirements of both documents.
The The directors also have access to the advice and services of the Financial Services Authority issued the Investment Entities company secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Listing Rules and Conduct of Business Instrument 2003 in that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with September 2003 and the Board has made the appropriate applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the disclosures in this annual report to ensure the Company meets furtherance of their duties, the directors may seek independent its continuing obligations.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company The Board currently consists of seven non-executive directors.
keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Their biographies, on page 15, demonstrate a breadth of accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and investment and business experience.
The Board considers that which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply both Mr Stormonth Darling and Mr Price should be deemed to with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Boards responsibility to be independent of the Investment Manager, as their previous present a balanced and understandable assessment which employment with that group was over five years ago.
However, extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
Mr Stormonth Darling is a director of another investment trust The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the managed by the Investment Manager and, therefore, is not Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and considered to be independent by some parties.
The rest of the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board has Board is judged to be independent, notwithstanding that all of delegated the following areas of responsibility: them, with the exclusion of Mr Walker-Haworth, have served as directors for over nine years.
Management and administration The management of the investment portfolio and the This independence is demonstrated this year by the Boards administration of the Company has been delegated to the decision not to propose a pure continuation vote, but to submit Investment Manager and its subsidiary companies.
Custody and a reconstruction proposal which gives shareholders a choice of settlement services are provided by The Bank of New York investments going forward.
Europe Limited BNYE, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York.
The structure of the Board is such that it is considered The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching unnecessary to identify a senior non-executive director other to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager than the Chairman.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner and details of its voting policy are set out on page 17.
The with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable Investment Manager reports to the Board on any votes in favour 20 Corporate Governance and Directors Responsibilities continued of incumbent management on contentious issues or of The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and abstentions or votes against management in respect of any management accounts which allow the Board to assess the stock held in the portfolio.
Companys activities and review its performance.
Board Committees The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Nomination and defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Directors Remuneration Committees, both of which meet when exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance necessary, the first to select and propose suitable candidates for statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board appointment, and the second to consider any change in directors at each meeting.
The Investment Managers evaluation remuneration policy.
procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes detailed research and appraisal and also takes Another committee, the Audit and Management Engagement into account environmental policies and other business issues.
Committee, separately chaired, has been established, which consists of all of the independent non-executive directors of the The controls and procedures of the Investment Manager are Company and the Chairman.
This Committee, which has written monitored by its corporate audit and compliance departments, terms of reference detailing its scope and duties, meets at least who report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also twice a year and amongst other things, examines the receives a report from BNYE on the internal controls of its effectiveness of the control systems.
The Committee also reviews custodial operations.
the interim and annual reports, receives information from the Investment Managers corporate audit and compliance The Board recognises that these control systems can only be departments and regularly reviews the terms of the investment designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to management and administration contracts.
The Committee achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not reviews the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence and absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and objectivity of the external auditor.
relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Manager and BNYE.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Financial statements Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring The Board is also required to ensure that the financial that financial information published or used within the business statements give a true and fair view of the affairs of the is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance with Company as at the end of each financial year and of the profit regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
The of the Company for that period.
Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system, which has been in place throughout the year, The Board considers that in preparing the financial statements and up to the date of this report.
on pages 24 to 38 the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied except as disclosed As part of the Boards responsibility for the internal control and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and system an ongoing process has been established, in conjunction estimates and that all accounting standards that it considers to with the Investment Manager, for identifying, evaluating and be applicable have been followed.
managing the Companys significant risks.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk Reconstruction proposals are to be put to shareholders pursuant management, are embedded in the operations of the to which, if approved, the Company will be wound up.
The Investment Manager and BNYE.
There is a monitoring and Company cannot therefore be regarded as a going concern and reporting process to review controls put in place to track risks it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a identified, carried out by the Investment Managers corporate break-up basis.
The Companys investments have been stated at audit department.
The Investment Manager reports to the their residual values, which are in line with mid-market values.
Company on its review of internal controls, which include checks on the custodian, formally on a semi-annual basis and verbally at each Board and Audit Committee meeting.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 21 Corporate Governance and Directors Responsibilities continued Relations with shareholders All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM.
The Notice of the AGM sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
In addition, the Investment Manager reviews the Companys portfolio and performance at the AGM, where both the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced to shareholders at the AGM.
The Investment Manager holds discussions with shareholders, the feedback from which is greatly valued by the Board.
There is a section within this annual report entitled Shareholder Information which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
Membership of the Board Committees Audit and Management Nomination and Engagement Committee Remuneration Committees Mark Evans Peter Stormonth Darling Chairman Chairman Richard McClean Mark Evans Beatrice Philippe Richard McClean David Price Beatrice Philippe Peter Stormonth Darling David Price John Walker-Haworth John Walker-Haworth Edmund Wallis Edmund Wallis 22
