Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for Meeting AGM and any directors appointed to the Board corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an since the previous AGM also retire and stand for election.
investment trust and which enables the Company to comply Directors retire at the first AGM after they reach the age of 70 with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance and are generally not expected to seek re-election.
Mr Buxton is the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on retiring as a director after the Annual General Meeting in March Corporate Governance, published in July 2003 and the AITC 2005, as he will be 70 by that date.
Code of Corporate Governance issued at the same time.
The Financial Services Authority issued the Investment Entities Directors who have served on the Board for more than nine Listing Rules and Conduct of Business Instrument 2003 in years are subject to annual re-election.
The Board has made the appropriate planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
disclosures in this report to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
The directors standing for re-election are Mr Wilmot-Sitwell and Mr Sage.
The Board has considered the position of both The Board considers that the Company has complied with the directors, as part of the evaluation process, and believes it provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code would be appropriate for them both to be proposed for rethroughout this accounting period, and this statement describes election, given their material level of contribution.
The Board how the relevant principles of governance are applied to believes it is in the Companys interest for Mr Wilmot-Sitwell to the Company.
remain as Chairman for a further year.
The Board Mr Baring is standing for election to the Board, having been The Board currently consists of six non-executive directors, all appointed in November 2004 to fill the vacancy caused by the but one of whom are independent of the Companys resignation of Mr Fleming.
Mr Barings appointment was fully Investment Manager.
This, in the Boards opinion, includes debated by all the directors.
No executive search firm was used Messrs Wilmot-Sitwell and Buxton, despite their length of as, due to the Companys specialist nature, the Board believes it service.
This independence allows all of the directors, with the is familiar with most of the suitable candidates based in the UK.
exception of Mr Barby, to sit on the Companys various committees.
Mr Barby, as a non-independent director, does not The Board meets at least five times a year and between these sit on the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
He is meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
considered to be non-independent due to his recent The Board reserves to itself decisions relating to the determination employment by the Investment Manager, from whom he retired of investment policy, any change in investment strategy, strategic in December 2003.
However, the rest of the Board agrees that gearing policy, policy on the buy back of shares, whether to hold this recent relationship does not affect his judgement in shares in treasury, and entering into any material contracts.
The discussions relating to the Investment Manager and that his Board also sets investment parameters, such as the acquisition or extensive experience of the investment trust sector is of material disposal of substantial interests and the maximum amount that value to the Company.
can be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, changes relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars to Mr Buxton has acted as the Senior Independent Director shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press releases and throughout 2004 and Mr Sage will assume this role on the any significant change in accounting policies or practices must formers retirement in March.
The directors biographies, on also be referred to the Board.
page 17, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
The directors also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the duties.
The Board determines strategic issues and all operational furtherance of their duties, the directors may seek independent matters of a material nature.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 23 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company Board Committees keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Nomination accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Committee, which meets when necessary, to select and propose which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply suitable candidates for appointment.
When looking for a new with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Boards responsibility to director, the Board assesses the skills of the Board as a whole, to present a balanced and understandable assessment, which identify any areas that need strengthening.
Due to the specialist extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in finding new directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability directors try to identify suitable individuals from their range of Insurance cover throughout the year, in the event of any contacts, although other sources, including external search potential legal action against its directors.
consultants, may also be used as required.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Committee, made up of the independent Directors, and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
including the Chairman of the Company also meets at least twice a year and, amongst other things, examines the Board Audit Committee Director ongoing evaluation effectiveness of the control systems.
The Chairman of the The Board formally reviews its performance on a regular basis, Company is a member of this Committee to enable him to be together with that of the Audit & Management Engagement kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
reference of this Committee are available on request and will also be available at each Annual General Meeting.
The two An appraisal system has been agreed by the Board for planned meetings are held prior to the Board meeting to evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the individual approve the interim and annual results, including the valuation Directors, including the Chairman.
The evaluation for of any unquoted investments.
The Committee does not consider 2004 2005 was carried out and it was agreed that the current that as an investment trust company it needs to hold an composition of the Board reflected a suitable mix of skills and additional meeting although this is kept under review.
Committee also reviews the interim and annual reports, receives information from the Investment Managers corporate audit and Delegation of responsibilities compliance departments and regularly reviews the terms of the The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: investment management and administration contracts.
The Committee reviews the scope, results, cost effectiveness, Management and administration independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The management of the investment portfolio and the administration of the Company have been delegated to the A fee of 15,000 was paid to Ernst & Young LLP for services Investment Manager and its subsidiary companies.
Custody and provided in relation to the bonus issue of warrants made to settlement services are provided by The Bank of New York shareholders on 26 March 2004.
In addition non-audit fees of Europe Limited BNYE, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York.
14,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP, the majority of which related to the provision of taxation services.
The Board considers The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching the services provided are non-material and cost efficient.
On an to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers voting policy are their relationship with the Investment Manager and report to set out on page 20.
The consent of the Chairman of the Board the Board, providing details of any other relationship with the is sought prior to the Investment Manager voting against Investment Manager.
The Board has concluded that Ernst & incumbent management in respect of any stock held in the Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Investment portfolio.
The Investment Manager reports any contentious Manager.
issues at each Board meeting.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit & Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the annual accounts 24 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued are considered and, at which they have the opportunity to meet to review these controls, which has been in place throughout with the Committee without representatives of the Investment the year under review and up to the date of this report, carried Manager being present.
out by the Investment Managers corporate audit department.
The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review Remuneration of Directors is determined by the Board, with the of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and verbally exception of Mr Barby, who is considered non-independent.
The at each Board and Audit Committee meeting.
The Audit remuneration of the Chairman and directors is reviewed against Committee also receives a report from BNYE on the internal the fees paid to directors of other specialist investment trusts controls of its custodial operations.
The Company does not have and investment trusts of a comparable size, as well as taking its own internal audit function, as all the administration is account of any data published by the AITC.
delegated to the Investment Manager and its subsidiaries.
This matter is kept under review.
Membership of the Board Committees The Board recognises that these control systems can only be Audit & Management designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Engagement Committee achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not Andrew Buxton absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and Chairman retiring March 2005 relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Oliver Baring Manager and BNYE.
Colin Buchan Gordon Sage The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Peter Wilmot-Sitwell Companys activities and review its performance.
Attendance record The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly Number of Meetings attended defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Board Audit exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance Number of Meetings held 5 2 statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board Peter Wilmot-Sitwell 5 2 at each meeting.
Ian Barby 5 N A Oliver Baring Financial statements since appointment 1 The Board is also required to ensure that the financial Colin Buchan 4 2 statements give a true and fair view of the affairs of the Andrew Buxton 5 2 Company as at the end of each financial year and of the profit of the Company for that period.
Gordon Sage 5 2 The Board considers that in preparing the financial statements Internal controls on pages 28 to 41, the Company has used appropriate The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the accounting policies, consistently applied except as disclosed Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and that financial information published or used within the business estimates and that all accounting standards that it considers to is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance with be applicable have been followed.
regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system, It is the Boards intention to present, in response to European on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage the requirements, the 2005 financial statements under International Companys significant risks.
Control of the risks identified, Financial Reporting Standards.
The Board does not anticipate covering financial, operational, compliance and risk that any restatement will be unduly significant but a management, is embedded in the operations of the Investment reconciliation will be set out to show the differences.
There is a monitoring and reporting process Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 25 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued Socially Responsible Investment The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and also takes into account environmental policies and other business issues.
The Investment Managers policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in the UK are detailed on their website www.
co. uk its, in the literature section.
Relations with shareholders All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM.
The Notice of the AGM sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
In addition, the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the AGM, where both the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the shareholders at the AGM.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders, and it also receives reports from its corporate brokers.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder Information, on pages 44 to 46, which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
