"Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction Two new Codes were published in July 2003: The UK Listing Authoritys new Combined Code on Corporate Governance for all listed companies and the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC Code of Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts "" AITC Code""."
The AITC Code, which was updated in January 2004, forms a comprehensive guide to best practice in certain areas of governance where the specific charactersitics of investment trusts suggest alternative approaches to those set out in the Combined Code that may be preferable.
There is a certain amount of overlap with the new Combined Code, although the focus of attention is on the points of difference.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require all listed companies to report on how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Company complies with the 1998 Combined Code, with the exception of the first bullet point below regarding a senior non-executive director.
Whilst companies are required to apply the new Combined Code for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, the Board is determined that the Company should remain at the forefront of best practice and, consequently, will report on compliance with the two new Codes, rather than the Combined Code published in 1998, as it believes this in the interests of its Shareholders.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust.
Application of the Principles of the Codes The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Statement describes how the principles identified in the new Combined Code and the AITC Code have been applied by the Company throughout the year to 30 June 2004 except where disclosed below.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the Combined Code provisions throughout the year.
In instances where the new Combined Code and the AITC Code differ, an explanation will be given as to which Code has been applied and the reason for that decision.
"The exceptions to compliance with the new Combined Code, which are explained more fully under the headings of ""The Board"" and ""Directors remuneration"", were as follows: a senior non-executive Director has not been appointed."
the new Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and Remuneration Committee should comprise independent non-executive Directors.
For the reasons set out below, Ms Glen and Sir David Trippier who are members of each of such committees do not fall within the definition of independence set out in the Codes.
"The Board The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, all of whom, with the exception of Ms M Glen and Sir David Trippier are considered under the Codes to be independent of the investment manager ""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct."
The firm in which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice to companies within the Managers group.
This is the position following the acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Managers Group plc by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
She will, therefore, offer herself for re-election annually.
Sir David Trippier is a director of a venture capital trust managed by a company within the Managers group.
Accordingly, Ms Glen and Sir David Trippier do not meet the tests of independence from the Manager set out in the AITC Code.
Notwithstanding this the Board takes the view that in performing the role of directors each of Ms Glen and Sir David Trippier has displayed independence from the Manager.
Mr B N A Hardman has been a Director since 1988 and was a non-executive director of J P Morgan Fleming Japanese Trust plc with Mr P A F Gifford, until Mr Giffords retirement from that board on 28 July 2004.
The Board has taken the view that Mr Hardmans long service as a Director of the Company has not affected his independence from the Manager and has been of considerable benefit to Shareholders.
With regard to the past cross directorship, the Board held the view that, due to their wide knowledge and experience in diverse companies, these Directors should be deemed to be independent.
The new Combined Code states that, following appointment, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the AITC Code states that the test of independence continues to be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will follow the AITC Code.
30 Murray Income Trust PLC The biographies of the Directors appear on pages 3 to 5 of this Annual Report and indicate their range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies.
the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and recommendation of the interim and final dividends respectively.
setting the level of gearing in which the Manager may operate.
major changes relating to the Companys structure, including share buybacks and share issues.
Board appointments and removals and the related terms.
Appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto.
Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flows with the Board and its committees, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
for advising through the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is arranged by the Manager.
Following his appointment on 5 May 2004, Mr H van der Klugt attended an induction meeting, which covered details about the Company, its Manager, legal responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various training specific to nonexecutive Directors, including those courses run by the AITC and the Manager.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
Consequently no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the Board met five times, including a Strategy Meeting.
In addition there was one meeting each of the Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Management Engagement Committees.
Between these meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Murray Income Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee meetings, held during the year as shown below: Audit Management Boards Committee Nomination Remuneration Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Committee Committee Director attended attended attended attended attended B N A Hardman 5 2 1 1 1 A J M Coats 5 2 1 1 1 P A F Gifford 5 2 1 1 1 M Glen 3 1 1 1 1 Sir David Trippier 5 2 1 1 H van der Klugt 2 H van der Klugt was appointed a Director on 5 May 2004 To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including the Managers review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and Committees.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
The number of meetings held during the year was 1.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: The identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried out by an independent firm of consultants: Plans for succession: the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: The continuation in office of any Director at any time: and: The appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the position of Chairman, the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
As a result of the intention of the Chairman of the Company to retire at the Annual General meeting in 2004, it was decided to appoint a new Director to the Board.
A search consultant was used to identify suitable candidates for review by the Board.
In considering the appointment of a new Director, the Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
32 Murray Income Trust PLC The Committee approved the appointment as a Director, on 5 May 2004, of Mr H van der Klugt, BSc Hons, FCA 50.
He was, until his retirement in January 2004, an Executive Director of Schroder Investment Management Limited and, in a twenty year career at Schroders, he was a member of the Group Investment and Asset Allocation Committees.
As a UK equity manager, he was directly responsible for 3 billion of funds under management, including the Schroder UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
He has also held directorships of Schroder Split Fund plc and Schroder Investment Management UK Limited and is currently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust.
The Committee considers his knowledge and experience, as described above, will enhance the combined experience of the Board.
The Committee further recommended to the Board the nomination for re-election of Mr P Gifford and Ms M Glen for the following reasons: Mr Gifford, who has been a Director since July 1999, was previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management.
Details of his other directorships are shown on page 4.
His experience in the fund management industry is greatly valued by his fellow Directors and is considered to be key in helping to maintain a balanced Board and enhancing its combined experience.
Ms Glen has been a Director since February 2003.
She is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors and her experience in this area is of considerable assistance to her fellow Directors.
Her continued appointment as a Director facilitates the maintenance of an appropriate range of skills and experience on the Board.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprising the full Board.
Mr A J M Coats is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The number of meetings held during the year was 2.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request, are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
These matters include: the review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company to assist in this the Committee receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis: the review of the annual accounts and interim report: the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors if applicable : the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the objectivity of the Auditors it should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years : the review of the Auditors management letter and the management response: the review of the management agreement: and meetings with representatives of the Manager.
Management Engagement Committee As recommended by the AITC Code, a Management Engagement Committee has been established, comprising the full Board.
It annually reviews matters concerning the management contract which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The number of meetings held in the year was 1.
Details of the Management Agreement are shown on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee and Directors remuneration Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 21.20 i iv, where an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the Code principles relating to directors remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board and whose Chairman is the Chairman of the Company.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25.
The Committee met once during the year ended 30 June 2004.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on request.
Murray Income Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who reaches the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Policy on tenure The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board does not consider that the length of service of a Director is as important as the contribution he or she has to make and therefore the length of service will be determined on a case by case basis.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray Income are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25 and in the Directors Report on pages 26 to 29.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event at which all Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The amount of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with major Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
co. uk Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is on page 36 and the Statement of Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page 29.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 37.
Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, that has been in place for the full year under review and up to the 34 Murray Income Trust PLC date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the TurnbuIl guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report are outlined below: the Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: the Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: as a matter of course the compliance department of AAM continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end: and on a quarterly basis the Board receives a detailed Compliance Report.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests of the Company.
They acknowledge that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the Directors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of the social environment and ethical factors, which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
Exercise of voting powers The Directors believe that the exercise of voting rights at company meetings lies at the heart of the regulation and promotion of corporate governance.
The Board has, therefore, given discretionary voting powers to the Investment Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
