Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23 Corporate Governance Statement Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the significant changes to accounting policies and approval of principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code management incentive schemes and Group policy on appended to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing pensions.
The Board delegates operational management of Authority the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high the Group on a day-to-day basis to the Group Management standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board the GMB, which comprises the executive directors Board considers that the Company is compliant with the new and senior managers.
Combined Code issued in July 2003, except in the areas detailed on page 31.
The Chairman and the Company The Board has full and timely access to all relevant Secretary have held meetings with the Association of British information to enable it to perform its duties.
In addition, Insurers, Research Recommendations and Electronic Voting each director has access to the advice and services of the and Pensions Investment Research Consultants Limited to Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the discuss their reports on the Companys Annual Report and Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take Accounts for the previous financial year ended 31 December independent professional advice if necessary, at the 2003 and current corporate governance issues.
Set out below Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2004.
During 2004 seven scheduled meetings of the Board were held.
Six of those meetings were held in Edinburgh: the other The Board Board meeting was held at the Companys office in Chennai, Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, India.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings and commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular at meetings of Board committees is set out on page 27.
Prior attention is paid to the composition and balance of the to and after the Board meeting held in India, the Board Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector visited the Companys operations and the Companys and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates and co-venturers in Rajasthan and met with government officials appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each in India, Bangladesh and Nepal.
During the year, additional Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, meetings to deal with specific matters were held at short the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well notice when required.
When a specific matter requires as skills, experience and ability which will assist the Board consideration at short notice, there is a procedure setting out in its key functions, are pre-requisites for appointment.
when those matters must be considered at a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief committee of the Board comprising at least two nonExecutive, four other executive directors and five executive directors one of whom must be the Chairman or independent non-executive directors.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman and two executive directors.
All directors Deputy Chairman, is Cairns senior independent nonunable physically to attend Board and committee meetings executive director.
The directors biographies are on page 21. are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment able to attend meetings in person.
to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is set who has served more than nine years is subject to annual reby the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and election.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in that Board meeting.
In addition, the Board is in frequent writing and agreed by the Board.
contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board determination of the overall strategy of the Group and members, members of the GMB and certain of the approval of the annual report and accounts and any other Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is financial statements, the Groups annual budget and provided with an induction pack which contains background amendments to that budget over a particular amount, materials and general information on the Company, the borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital Companys policies and procedures, financial information, expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of regulatory responsibilities.
Details of the procedures Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 24 Corporate Governance Statement continued followed for the appointment of Phil Tracy and Andrew The executive directors have their performance individually Shilston, who were appointed as directors of the Company reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives during the year, are set out on pages 26 and 27. which are set annually.
The bonus payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme The Company provides the necessary resources for described further on page 41 is linked directly to the developing and updating its directors knowledge and results of these reviews.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to Independence of Non-Executive Directors its directors and in 2004 held a number of seminars for The Board evaluation and review process also covered the Board members on subjects appropriate to the Companys independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking business.
These seminars were held at the end of Board into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to meetings and were attended by all directors present at the the Board and its committees.
In particular, the process meeting.
This process is continuing in 2005.
Any director considered the independence of Hamish Grossart and may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are Mr Grossart has served on the Board for more than nine distributed to all directors.
He is also a non-executive director of Artemis Investment Management Limited, which as at 19 April 2005 The Company has directors and officers liability insurance held under management approximately 2.63% of the in place.
The Board concluded, after rigorous review and without Mr Grossart being present, that Performance Evaluation Mr Grossart remains independent in character and The Board has a formal annual process of rigorous judgement and that his performance continues to be performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination effective and he demonstrates continued commitment to the and remuneration committees and individual directors.
In particular, the Board noted that Mr Grossart does not The performance evaluation of the Board and the Board participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share committees was primarily based upon answers to a detailed option plans, long term incentive plan or pension scheme questionnaire which was prepared internally following a and is not dependent upon the fees received from the review of external papers on the subject.
The questionnaire Company as his primary source of income.
In addition, the was distributed to all Board members and the Company Artemis compliance officer has confirmed in writing to the Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included Company that Mr Grossart does not participate in any the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, investment management decisions at Artemis.
Mr Grossart performance against objectives, preparation for and has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution The questionnaire addressed all of the issues raised by Derek will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Higgs in his review of the role and effectiveness of non- 3 June 2005 to this effect.
executive directors that was published in January 2003.
Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Mark Tyndall is the chief executive of Artemis Investment Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a Management Limited, which as at 19 April 2005 held under meeting with each director and the Company Secretary management approximately 2.63% of the Companys issued individually to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then share capital.
The Board has reviewed the chinese wall reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board arrangements in place between Mark Tyndall and Artemis meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented and has concluded that they are sufficient to ensure Mr the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are Tyndalls independence.
No communication is made or sent satisfied that they are operating effectively.
by the Company to Mr Tyndall at Artemis: all communication is made to his home address.
In addition, Artemis have The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Companys senior confirmed in writing that Mr Tyndall does not participate in independent non-executive director, sought the views of the any investment management decisions at Artemis in respect executive directors and met with each of the other nonof Cairn.
The Board concluded, after rigorous review and executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to without Mr Tyndall being present, that he is independent in discuss and assess the Chairmans performance.
The Board character and judgement and that his performance is not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment performance is effective and he demonstrates continued to the role.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Corporate Governance Statement continued Following the evaluation and review process, the Board The audit committee met six times in 2004.
At the request believes that, in addition to Mr Grossart and Mr Tyndall, of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior all of the other non-executive directors are independent members of the Finance Department attended five and six in character and judgement.
meetings respectively during the year.
In addition, two of these meetings were attended by the external auditors and Board Committees three meetings were attended by the internal auditors.
For The Board has established an audit committee, a part of each of the meetings attended by the external remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each auditors, the committee met with the auditors without any of which has formal terms of reference approved by the executives being present.
The external auditors receive Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be are reviewed internally by the Board and have been updated considered at meetings when they are not in attendance to meet the provisions of the new Combined Code which was and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the published by the Financial Reporting Council during 2003. chairman of the committee is in regular contact with the Copies of the terms of reference are available for inspection external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the on request and will be available for inspection before and Company.
during the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005.
The role of the committee includes: The committees are provided with all necessary resources monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective the Company and formal announcements relating to the manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of Companys financial performance and reviewing any these committees.
The minutes of all committee meetings significant financial reporting judgements contained in are circulated to all directors.
them: Set out below are reports from each of the audit committee, reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and The audit committee comprises four non-executive directors, internal control and risk management systems: all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Norman Murray chairman, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Hamish Grossart, Andrew Shilston and Ed Story.
The Board is Companys internal audit function: satisfied that three members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Both Mr Murray and overseeing the Companys relationship with the external Mr Grossart serve on audit committees of other listed auditors, including making recommendations to the Board companies.
Norman Murray is a Chartered Accountant and as to the appointment or reappointment of the external is currently a Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and Accountants of Scotland.
Hamish Grossart trained as an monitoring the external auditors independence, investment banker.
Andrew Shilston was the Finance objectivity and effectiveness: and Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002 and is currently the Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc.
reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the Andrew Shilston was appointed as a non-executive director proportionate and independent investigation of possible on 8 November 2004 and was appointed by the Board as a improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other member of the audit committee at the same time on the matters and for appropriate follow up action.
recommendation of the nomination committee.
It is intended that he will become chairman of the audit committee in The audit committee has established a policy in relation place of Norman Murray following the conclusion of the to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005.
Mr Murray and other third parties.
The Company will engage an will also stand down as a member of the committee at that external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of time, although he may attend committee meetings as an the skills and experience required for the work, whether observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 26 Corporate Governance Statement continued include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash of non-audit services, although, before the engagement bonus scheme: commences, the audit committee must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be determining the vesting of awards under the Companys compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to long term incentive plan and exercise of share options: and carry out these services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services determining the policy for pension arrangements, service are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in agreements and termination payments for executive accordance with the Companys financial delegations of directors.
authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative The committee met seven times in 2004. basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 46. supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function, using a combination of the Companys own internal 3.
Nomination Committee Report resources and external third party resources.
The audit The nomination committee comprises Norman Murray committee receives updates on the internal audit workplan chairman, two independent non-executive directors, on an ongoing basis.
Hamish Grossart and Ed Story and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Bill Gammell The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as Chief Executive.
a result of which Ernst & Young LLP were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors The role of the nomination committee includes considering performance on an ongoing basis although it has no current the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making plans to carry out another tender process in the near future.
recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the re-appointment 2.
Remuneration Committee Report and orderly succession of existing directors.
Details of the The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive procedures followed for the appointments of Phil Tracy and directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be Andrew Shilston, who were appointed as directors of the independent.
Currently, its members are Hamish Grossart Company during the year, are set out below.
chairman, Norman Murray, Ed Story and Mark Tyndall.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be The committee met four times in 2004. held on 3 June 2005, it is intended that Norman Murray will stand down as a member of the committee and that Todd Organisational Planning Hunt will be appointed as a member of the committee.
During 2004 the Company commenced working with Ashridge Consulting Limited on an organisational The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, development project.
This initiative focused on developing a attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the set of core competencies which reflect the values important committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any to the Company.
These competencies will link into many of meetings or any discussions relating to his own the Companys human resources processes including remuneration.
recruitment and selection, performance management, training and development and succession planning.
This The role of the committee includes: project is ongoing and is expected to be completed during 2005. determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Appointment of new directors in 2004 Chairman and the members of the GMB: During the year, Phil Tracy and Andrew Shilston were appointed as directors of the Company.
The following within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the procedures were followed: total individual remuneration package for each executive director: Appointment of Phil Tracy The nomination committee evaluated the balance of skills, determining the level of awards made under the knowledge and experience on the Board and recommended, Companys share option plans and long term incentive plan following the discovery of the Mangala field in Rajasthan, and the performance conditions which are to apply: that the Company appoint a new executive director to the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued position of Engineering & Operations Director.
After a short-list produced by Spencer Stuart, the chairman of discussions with all the other members of the Board, the committee arranged for Andrew Shilston to attend the committee recommended to the Board that it meet meetings on an individual basis with all of the other formally to consider its recommendation that Phil Tracy, members of the committee, a number of other executive an internal candidate and a former executive director of and non-executive directors and senior management.
the Company, with over 30 years experience as an In addition to these meetings, Mr Shilston discussed the engineer in the oil and gas industry be appointed to the Companys financial position and other matters with the position.
Mr Tracy was appointed as an executive director Companys external auditors.
After assessing the matter, in February 2004. both parties confirmed that they wished to proceed with the appointment and, after taking into account Mr Appointment of Andrew Shilston Shilstons other commitments, the nomination committee Following a review of the membership of the Board recommended to the Board that Mr Shilston be appointed committees, the nomination committee recommended to as a non-executive director of the Company.
The the Board that it appoint a new non-executive director who appointment took effect on 8 November 2004. would initially be a member of the audit committee and would then be appointed to chair the committee.
The Directors attendance at Board and Company instructed Spencer Stuart, independent search Board Committee Meetings consultants, to conduct a search for a new non-executive The table below sets out the attendance record of each director with recent and relevant financial experience to director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings fulfil this role.
Following consideration by the committee of during 2004: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings held during 2004 7674 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended Executive Directors 1 2 Bill Gammell 7 n a n a 4 Mike Watts 7 n a n a n a 2 Kevin Hart 7 n a n a n a Malcolm Thoms 7 n a n a n a 3 Phil Tracy 5 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Norman Murray 7674 Hamish Grossart 7574 5 5 5 Ed Story 6 3 4 0 Todd Hunt 7 n a n a n a Mark Tyndall 7 n a 6 n a 4 4 Andrew Shilston 0 1 n a n a Notes: 1 n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
2 During 2004, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee and remuneration committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
3 Phil Tracy was appointed as a director on 6 February 2004.
The number of Board meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
4 Andrew Shilston was appointed as a director on 8 November 2004.
The number of Board meetings and audit committee meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
5 Where Ed Story was unable to attend meetings of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the committees in advance of such meetings.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 28 Corporate Governance Statement continued Relations with Shareholders Under the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors are Communications with shareholders are given high priority required to prepare financial statements for each financial by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs accounts and interim report and accounts to all of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the financial period, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Board develop an understanding of the views of major period.
The financial statements have been prepared on a shareholders there is regular dialogue with institutional going concern basis.
The directors consider that applicable shareholders, including meetings after the announcement accounting standards have been followed, appropriate of the year end and interim results.
The Chairman attends accounting policies have been used and applied consistently a number of these meetings.
and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, that accounting records are kept which disclose with a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group, and attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company which enable them to ensure that the financial statements maintains an external relations database which details all comply with the Act.
The directors have general meetings attended by the directors with third party responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds detect fraud and other irregularities.
to all correspondence from shareholders and also has a website which contains a range of information, including a Going Concern dedicated investor relations section.
The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable Mr Grossart, the senior independent non-executive director, expectation that the Group will continue in operational is available to shareholders if they have concerns which existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief the going concern basis in preparing the financial Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for statements.
which such contact is inappropriate.
Internal Control Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups meetings with major shareholders without the executive system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Annual General Meeting objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate assurance against material misstatement or loss.
with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the As an oil and gas exploration and production company with chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination current operations concentrated in South Asia, Cairn is, by committees are available at Annual General Meetings to virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in answer questions.
which it operates, subject to a variety of business risks.
The Board believes however, that Cairn derives its competitive Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General edge by focusing activities in this core geographical area.
Meeting on 3 June 2005 can be found in the Notice of Annual Operations in any country are only possible when values are General Meeting on pages 82 to 85.
The Company arranges shared, and the directors believe that Cairns values of for the Notice of Annual General Meeting and related integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork documents to be sent to shareholders a minimum of 20 and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management working days before the meeting.
and alliancing with key partners are ingredients that are central to Cairns success.
The ability to recognise the value Directors Responsibility Statement of working as a partnership with host governments, both The following statement, which should be read in nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient conjunction with the auditors statement of responsibilities in Cairns approach and success.
in their report on page 47, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective The Groups system of internal control plays a critical role responsibilities of the Board and of the auditors in relation in managing the risks towards the achievement of Cairns to the financial statements.
corporate vision and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding shareholders interests and the Groups assets.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Corporate Governance Statement continued An ongoing process has been established for identifying, plan.
The country business plans are firstly approved by the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the in-country management teams and are then submitted to Group and is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull the GMB and the Board for approval.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2004 accounting period and The in-country management teams then have the required up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the approved budget and In late 2003, KPMG LLP were engaged by the Board to delegation of authorities.
This must be done in accordance conduct a strategic level review of Cairns system of internal with the internal control framework set by the Board.
KPMG LLP presented their findings to the Board in January 2004 and steps have been taken during 2004 to The remit of the GMB is to oversee the delivery of the Group implement the agreed changes, which have included: strategy through the annual work programmes and budgets and the country business plans.
The directors have also organisational changes to strengthen the clarity, roles and appointed Group Functional Heads whose role includes responsibilities within the corporate governance structure: providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, supplying the relevant director strengthening the business risk management strategy, with full and accurate information and making statements organisation and processes so that they are more on the adequacy of internal controls.
performance focused and embedded within the Groups operations: and 3.
Risk Management The Risk Management Committee RMC, established establishing a more robust assurance framework which by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the recognises the Groups operational growth and external development of risk management strategy and processes developments which impact upon it.
within the Group and for overseeing the implementation of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring the Groups In addition to its consideration of the KPMG report, the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation, Board has carried out regular reviews of the effectiveness of documentation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements during 2004, and will ensure that such reviews are are in place in relation to these risks.
performed on a regular basis in 2005.
The Board is satisfied that effective control is in place and that risks have been The RMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises mitigated to an acceptable level.
The key elements of the executive directors, senior country and Group functional internal control system and the processes used by the Board management.
In order to improve transparency of key to review the effectiveness of the system include the business risks, the committee meetings are also attended following: by certain non-executive directors.
During 2004, Norman Murray and Mark Tyndall attended RMC meetings.
Strategic Direction The Board intends to periodically change the chairman of The Cairn business model is conventional in that Group the committee and RMC membership in order to maintain strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board, a robust and challenging approach to risk management.
and its implementation is delegated to the GMB.
The Group has a set of Business Risk Management Guidelines 2.
Operating Management BRMG, that define the processes through which Cairn Cairn operates several business units in three different seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
These were budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, updated during 2004.
The BRMG also identify the risk starting at the asset level before being consolidated at both management organisational structure through which country and Group levels.
After an iterative process, the business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at country budgets are presented as part of the Group budget operating, asset and country levels.
These business risks, for approval to the GMB and the Board.
together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, are then recorded in risk registers, which, Each country then prepares a detailed business plan to meet following endorsement by the in-country management the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets teams and the GMB, are reported to the Group Risk Register.
out detailed objectives and key performance indicators KPIs for each asset and supporting functional These risk registers are regularly reviewed by the RMC to department, and is consolidated into the country business ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 30 Corporate Governance Statement continued and that there is an embedded risk management approach an appropriate organisational structure: in place.
It also seeks continuous improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice throughout control over non-operated joint venture activities through the Group.
delegated Cairn representatives: KPMG LLP were appointed in August 2004 to manage the specific delegations of authority for all financial and other internal audit process and steps have been taken to ensure transactions: integration with risk management.
The RMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: Board.
Additionally, the Board receives internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks business and financial reporting, including KPIs: on a regular basis.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2004 is that the internal controls in functional management reviews: respect of key risks are appropriate.
annual letters of assurance process, through which 4.
Assurance country managers confirm the adequacy of internal The integrated assurance framework adopted by the Board financial and non-financial controls, their compliance with provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing Group policies and report any control weaknesses the Group: firstly at the operational level: secondly through identified in the past year: overview by Group functional management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with During 2004 the directors regularly reviewed the the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and noncommittee and Board: financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level reports from the audit committee and RMC: internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision of the Board: reports from audits by governments and co-venturers: and policies and procedures for key business activities: independent third party reviews commissioned by Cairn.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Corporate Governance Statement continued Compliance With Combined Code Throughout 2004 the Company complied with the provisions of the new Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company Position Explanation A.
3.2 - at least half the Board, The Company complied with this At the start of 2004, the Board comprised excluding the chairman, should provision from the start of 2004 four executive directors and five comprise non-executive directors until 5 February 2004 and from non-executive directors including the determined by the Board 8 November 2004 until 31 December Chairman.
The Board determined that to be independent.
During the period 6 February the four non-executive directors were 2004 to 7 November 2004 it did not independent in terms of the Combined Code, comply with this provision.
the Chairman is automatically considered not to be independent for the purposes of this provision and the Company therefore complied with this provision at this time.
On 6 February 2004, the Company appointed Phil Tracy as an executive director for the reasons set out on pages 26 and 27, resulting in the Board comprising five executive directors and four non-executive directors excluding the Chairman.
On this basis, less than half of the Board comprised independent non-executive directors.
The Company complied with this provision again with effect from 8 November 2004 as a result of Andrew Shilston being appointed as a nonexecutive director.
Throughout 2004 the nomination The Board believes that the membership of A.
4.1 - a majority of members committee comprised two of the nomination committee the committee is appropriate and effective.
independent non-executive directors, should be independent the Chairman and one executive non-executive directors.
2.1 - the Board should establish Throughout 2004 the remuneration Following the conclusion of the Annual a remuneration committee of committee comprised three General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005, it at least three members who independent non-executive directors is intended that the Chairman will stand down should all be independent and the Chairman.
as a member of the committee and that Todd non-executive directors.
Hunt will be appointed as a member of the committee.
The Company will then be in compliance with this provision of the Combined Code.
C. 3.1 - the Board should establish During the period 1 January 2004 The Chairman intends to stand down as an audit committee of at least to 7 November 2004, the audit chairman and a member of the audit three members, who should all committee comprised two independent committee following the conclusion of the be independent non-executive non-executive directors and the Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2005. directors.
On 8 November 2004, The Company will then be in compliance Andrew Shilston was appointed as a with this provision of the Combined Code.
non-executive director and was appointed as a member of the audit committee with effect from that date.
