26 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report INDEX TO THIS SECTION OF THE REPORT INTRODUCTION AND COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE The directors of Old Mutual plc submit their report and the audited Introduction and Combined Code compliance 26 financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Board of Directors 26 The Company is the holding company of the Old Mutual group of Membership and directors interests companies, whose principal activities are life assurance including Rotation and re-election of directors retirement savings, asset management including unit trusts and Skills, experience and review portfolio management, banking and general insurance.
Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority The Chief Executives Statement, the Group Finance Directors Review Executive and non-executive roles and the Business Reviews contained in this document include a Independence of non-executive directors review of the year and the outlook for the Group.
The Groups profit, 2004 operations and Turnbull statement appropriations and financial position are shown in the financial statements.
Committees 31 Group Audit Committee The Group is committed to the objective of achieving high standards Actuarial Review Committee of corporate governance.
In the year ended 31 December 2004 and Remuneration Committee in the preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company Nomination Committee has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions Chairmans Selection Committee set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Executive Committee Reporting Council the Combined Code as described in the following Group Capital Management Committee sections of this Report.
The Companys compliance with Combined Terms of reference Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1, C3.2, C3.3, C3.4, C3.5, C3.6 and C3.7 and the statement relating to the going concern basis adopted Attendance record 33 in preparing the financial statements have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with guidance Auditors 33 published by the Auditing Practices Board.
Annual General Meeting 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Results of the AGM and Court Meeting in 2004 Membership and directors interests Internal Control Environment 35 The Board currently has ten members, consisting of two executive Approach to risk management and eight non-executive directors.
All of the current directors except Risk governance for Mr M J P Marks and Mr R P Edey who were appointed to the Board Risk appetite on 1 February and 24 June 2004 respectively served throughout the Group risk principles year ended 31 December 2004.
Mr C F Liebenberg retired from the Risk methodologies Board as a non-executive director on 2 October 2004, upon reaching his seventieth birthday.
Management of Specific Risks 37 South Africa Life business The Company has recently announced the appointment of an additional Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa non-executive director, Professor Wiseman Nkuhlu, who will join the Nedcor Board from 1 March 2005.
Mutual & Federal US businesses Mr M J Levett is the Chairman of the Board and Mr C D Collins is the UK current senior independent director.
Policy matters 39 Details of the directors interests within the meaning of section 346 of Relations with shareholders and analysts the Companies Act 1985, including interests of connected persons in Employment matters the share capital of the Company and quoted securities of its subsidiaries Supplier payment policy at the beginning and end of the year under review are set out in the Charitable contributions following tables, whilst their interests in share options and restricted Environmental matters share awards are described in the section of the Remuneration Report entitled Directors Interests Under Employee Share Plans.
There have Other Directors Report matters 41 been no changes to any of these interests between 31 December 2004 Political donations and 28 February 2005. Dividend Share capital Substantial interests in shares Going concern Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 27 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Old Mutual plc Nedcor Limited Limited Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2004 N D T Andrews R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 W A M Clewlow 30,700 2,849 C D Collins 5,541 R P Edey 1 M J Levett 5,465,130 17,804 500 M J P Marks 1 J V F Roberts 250,103 500 J H Sutcliffe 815,996 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Old Mutual plc Nedcor Limited Limited Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2004 or date of appointment as a director, if later N D T Andrews R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 W A M Clewlow 30,700 2,000 C D Collins 5,541 R P Edey 1 M J Levett 4,159,518 12,333 864,100 M J P Marks 1 J V F Roberts 178,948 500 J H Sutcliffe 766,689 Note: 1 Included in the above interests are non-beneficial interests in 500 shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited held as qualification shares by each of M J Levett and J V F Roberts at both 1 January and 31 December 2004.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Rotation and re-election of directors Skills, experience and review The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newlyThe balance of skills and experience and of executive and non-executive appointed directors be subject to election at the next following Annual representation on the Board, the independence of non-executive General Meeting and also that at least one-third of the directors excluding directors and the overall size of the Board are each kept under review those appointed by the Board during the year shall retire by rotation by the Nomination Committee.
All of these aspects are currently believed each year.
These provisions are applied in such a manner that each by that Committee to be satisfactory and appropriate for the requirements director will submit himself for election or re-election at regular intervals of the Groups business.
Whilst there are currently only two executive and at least once every three years.
directors, the Board has regular contact with the other most senior executive management including the chief executives of the six most The Nomination Committee considered the candidates who are standing significant business units of the Group, together with the Director of for election or re-election at this years Annual General Meeting as Group HR and Strategy through the periodic attendance at or participation referred to in Ordinary Resolutions 3 i to iv in the Notice of Annual in Board meetings by those executives.
The Board also receives copies General Meeting on pages 160 to 164 of this document at its meeting of Minutes of Management Board meetings, which are attended by in February 2005.
In accordance with its findings, it recommends to those executives, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director shareholders the election of each of Mr Edey and Professor Nkuhlu and at which high-level business matters are considered and debated.
and the re-election of Mr Collins as non-executive directors and, in the case of Mr Collins, as Chairman to succeed Mr Levett based upon Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition are proactively their professional qualifications, prior business experience and actual or managed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure that changes prospective contribution to the Board, and the re-election of Mr Sutcliffe take place without undue disruption.
as Chief Executive on the basis of his satisfactory performance since being promoted to that role in November 2001.
Biographical details of each of the candidates are contained in the descriptions accompanying their photographs on pages 42 and 43 of this document.
28 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority The Chairman and Company Secretary are both involved in ensuring The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the Company good information flows within the Board and its committees and between within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk senior management and the non-executive directors, as well as in to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic facilitating induction and encouraging non-executive directors to attend aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in courses at the Companys expense to update their skills and knowledge.
place for it to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It regularly reviews strategic issues through the Chief Executives report On appointment, new directors receive induction, including a package and has a two-day strategy session during the second quarter of each of information about matters of immediate importance to the Group, year at which high-level strategic matters are thoroughly debated.
The such as the current budget, strategy document, management accounts, Board sets the Companys values and standards, and ensures that its the Scheme of Delegated Authority and details of the Companys obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
directors and officers liability policy.
They are also invited to have such meetings with other directors, senior management, external advisors The Board acknowledges its collective responsibility for the success such as the auditors, and major shareholders as they wish.
It receives a wide array of information on the Groups businesses on a regular basis.
Detailed monthly management accounts Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest to be are circulated to each member of the Board, usually within three weeks disclosed and for directors to recuse themselves from participation in any of the month-end, and these contain detailed analysis of the businesses decisions where they may have any such conflict or potential conflict.
financial performance, including comparisons against budget.
Any issues arising from these are addressed at Board Meetings or can be raised The directors may take independent professional advice at the directly with management.
There is a Board calendar which ensures Companys expense, if necessary, for the furtherance of their duties, that all key matters are dealt with over the course of the year.
These whether as members of the Board or of any of its committees.
include presentations on the Groups major businesses, and one or more Board meetings are held each year in the overseas territories The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance where the Group operates.
in respect of legal action against its directors.
The Board has oversight of the Groups wholly-owned businesses All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible but also: i delegates specific responsibilities for certain matters to to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
its committees Executive, Group Capital Management, Nomination, Chairmans Selection, Remuneration, Group Audit, and Actuarial Review, There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the Boards decision: subject to their respective terms of reference: and ii receives assurance these are set out in the Companys Scheme of Delegated Authority from boards and their respective committees at the Groups subsidiaries, and currently include, inter alia, the following: Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. and Old Mutual Financial Services UK plc payment or recommendation of dividends: the Principal Subsidiaries.
approval of results announcements, interim and annual reports and The governance relationships with the Groups majority-owned any other public statement relating to the Groups financial position subsidiaries, Nedcor Limited and Mutual & Federal Insurance Company which is likely to have a material impact on the Groups reputation: Limited, are somewhat different, in recognition of their own governance expectations as separately listed entities on the JSE Securities Exchange approval of the Groups budgets and the formulation of medium and South Africa and the fact that they each have minority shareholders.
long-term direction and strategy for the Group: With respect to Nedcor, the Company entered into a relationship establishment of committees of the Board, their constitution and agreement in February 2004 setting out the Companys requirements terms of reference: and expectations as its majority shareholder.
The full text of that relationship agreement is available on the Companys website, monitoring of compliance with the Groups environmental policies: www.
Among the matters covered are: i transactions involving members of the Nedcor group that require prior consultation approval of the acquisition or disposal of any business or investment with or agreement by the Company: ii provision of information, including for a consideration of 25 million or more: that required for assuring the Company about various aspects of corporate governance: iii consultation over senior appointments: approval of expenditure by a Principal Subsidiary in excess of its and iv business co-operation.
respective delegated expenditure authority: The policyholders funds of the Groups South African and Zimbabwean approval of significant changes to the accounting policies or practices life assurance operations have holdings representing in aggregate of the Group: in excess of 20% of the issued share capital of a number of major South African and Zimbabwean companies listed on the JSE Securities approval of any proposal as a result of which either Nedcor Limited Exchange South Africa and the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, respectively.
or Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited would cease to These are held purely as investments, and the companies concerned be a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company: are not subject to the governance or control structures of the Group.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 29 approval of appointments to the Board and renewal of non-executive Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, without the directors appointments, following prior review by the Nomination Chairman or any executive being present, are also facilitated by the Committee: Company.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the annual review of the Chairmans own performance, under the aegis approval of any major decision relating to the conduct or settlement of the senior independent non-executive director, who also obtains of any material litigation involving the Company or its subsidiaries: input for such purpose from the executive directors.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: Where directors have concerns that cannot be resolved about the running of the Company or a proposed action, they are encouraged appointment or termination of appointment of key professional to make their views known and these would be recorded in the Minutes advisors to the Group: and of the Board meeting.
No written statements on resignation containing matters of concern, such as are referred to in paragraph A.
1.4 of the any other matters which are likely to have a material effect Combined Code, have been received by the Chairman.
on the Groups financial position, future strategy or reputation.
The division of responsibilities between the current Chairman, Mr Levett, Executive and non-executive roles and the Chief Executive, Mr Sutcliffe, is documented so as to ensure The executive element of the Board is balanced by a strong independent that there is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of group of non-executive directors, such that no individual or small the Board and executive responsibility for running the Companys group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
This was put in place and approved by the Board when The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management Mr Sutcliffe succeeded Mr Levett as Chief Executive in November 2001 in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting and a similar arrangement has been made for when Mr Collins succeeds of performance.
Procedures are in place to enable them to satisfy Mr Levett as Chairman in May 2005.
This, together with the Scheme of themselves on the integrity of the Groups financial information and Delegated Authority and the matters reserved for decision by the Board, that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
For both Mr Levett as outgoing Chairman and Mr Collins as incoming Those non-executive directors who are members of the Remuneration Chairman, responsibilities include those contained in the Supporting Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels of Principle to paragraph A.
2 of the Combined Code, namely that the remuneration for the executive directors, and members of the Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its Nomination Committee have a primary role in recommending the effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring appointment, and where necessary removal, of executive directors.
that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: The Board as a whole receives and considers regular reports on ensuring effective communication with shareholders: facilitating the succession planning.
effective contribution to the Board of non-executive directors in particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Chairman holds non-executive directors.
periodic meetings with the other non-executive directors, without any executives being present, in order to provide a forum for any issues to The Board has determined that, in the absence of exceptional be raised.
He also conducts, in consultation with the senior independent circumstances, no non-executive directors three-year cycle of non-executive director, an annual performance evaluation of each of the appointment which is itself subject to re-election and to Companies Act other non-executive directors, the results of which are reported to the provisions relating to the removal of a director should be renewed more Nomination Committee.
These are designed to ensure that each director than twice, i. e. that non-executive directors should serve a maximum is continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment of nine years in that role, and that no non-executive director should to the role including commitment of time for Board and Committee continue beyond his seventieth birthday.
The renewal of non-executive meetings and any other duties.
The outputs from these performance directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not automatic and evaluations are taken into account by the Nomination Committee the continued suitability of each non-executive director is assessed in deciding whether to recommend to the Board the extension of by the Nomination Committee before renewal of his appointment takes engagement of any non-executive director and also whether to recommend place.
A particularly searching review is carried out at the end of six to shareholders the re-election of any non-executive director who is due years.
The section of the Remuneration Report entitled Non-Executive to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
They would also Directors Terms of Engagement describes the current position of each form the basis, if the need arose, for the Chairman to act to address of the non-executive directors with respect to their maximum three terms any weaknesses identified in the Board by seeking the resignation of of three years and how the extension process has been applied to the underperforming directors or proposing, through the Nomination directors concerned.
Committee, that additional directors be appointed.
30 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued The current Chairman, Mr Levett, was Chairman and Chief Executive The terms and conditions for each of the non-executive directors until November 2001, when he was succeeded as Chief Executive are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys by Mr Sutcliffe.
His appointment as non-executive Chairman was website, www.
com, and these include details of the expected carefully considered by the Board, which decided at that time that this time commitment involved which each of the non-executive directors was in the best interests of the Company in view of his long experience has accepted.
Other significant commitments of potential appointees with the Groups South African businesses, depth of relevant knowledge are considered by the Nomination Committee as part of the selection and wealth of ability.
Mr Levett is a director of the Companys 87%-owned process and are disclosed to the Board when recommendation of the general insurance subsidiary, Mutual & Federal Insurance Company appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors are also required Limited, and was, until the end of 2004, also a director of its 52%-owned to inform the Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments, banking subsidiary, Nedcor Limited and its main banking operation, which must be pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
He is also a non-executive director of the non-Group companies, Barloworld Limited and Old Mutual South Africa Trust plc.
The executive directors are permitted to hold one external i. e. non-Group Until July 2004 he was a non-executive director of SAB Miller plc.
non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship of another listed These external interests do not adversely affect his ability to discharge company, subject to prior clearance by the Board and the directorship his duties as Chairman of the Board.
concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict with any of the Groups businesses.
Neither Mr Sutcliffe nor Mr Roberts currently The Board conducts an annual self-assessment exercise to evaluate holds such a directorship.
the effectiveness of its procedures.
For 2004, it decided to carry out this process through a detailed questionnaire exercise, with returns being 2004 operations and Turnbull statement submitted anonymously to the Company Secretary, who collated a report The Board met on a scheduled basis regularly during the year.
on the outputs for the Board.
The areas covered by the survey included Meetings were co-ordinated with the Companys reporting calendar Governance and Processes Board meetings, Board functions, Board to allow for detailed consideration of the interim and preliminary results structure, Board Committees, financial and operational reporting and and the first and third quarters trading updates.
Two further sessions compliance and strategic matters planning and objectives, risk were specifically devoted to strategy and business planning respectively.
management, new business opportunities and projects, and human The Board also met ad hoc as and when required to deal with specific resources.
The feedback was generally positive, but where suggestions matters requiring its consideration.
During 2004, there were nine for improvements were made, these have been noted by the Board and scheduled Board meetings and four ad hoc meetings.
efforts will be made to address them in 2005.
The scheduled meetings included a three-day site visit to the Groups Independence of non-executive directors businesses in South Africa, which included presentations to the Board Six of the seven non-executive directors other than the Chairman by Nedcor and Mutual & Federal as well as by Old Mutual South Africa.
Messrs Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Collins, Edey and Marks are considered by the Board to be independent within the meaning of, and During the year the Board approved and adopted four core Group values having regard to the criteria set out in, paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Integrity, Respect, Accountability and Pushing beyond Boundaries.
Code i. e. independent in character and judgement and there being These have been communicated throughout the Group and no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could incorporated into managements performance statements so as appear to affect, their judgement.
Professor Nkuhlu, who will join the to ensure they are lived and observed by all key employees.
Board as a non-executive director on 1 March 2005, is also considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during and at the end of the year.
This review covered all The Board decided in December 2004, following a review by the material controls, including financial, operational and compliance Nomination Committee, that it was no longer appropriate to classify controls and risk management systems.
Mr Clewlow as independent, in view of his increased involvement, as Chairman of Nedcor, in supporting the executive management The Board is of the view that there is a sufficient ongoing process of that company.
He thereupon stepped down as a member of the for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Remuneration and Group Audit Committees so that all members of those by the Group, and that this process has been in place for the year Committees remained independent as required by the Combined Code.
ended 31 December 2004 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
The process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Internal Mr Collins has served as the senior independent non-executive Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is regularly director since February 2003 and will be succeeded in that role by reviewed by the Board.
Mr Broadhurst when Mr Collins becomes non-executive Chairman of the Company at the end of the AGM in May 2005.
The senior independent The Company referred in its Directors Report for 2003 to civil suits that non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns had been filed against a subsidiary, Pilgrim Baxter & Associates, Ltd that are unresolved after contact through the normal channels of the PBA now renamed Liberty Ridge Capital, Inc., by the United States Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where such Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the office of the contact would be inappropriate.
His contact details can be obtained New York State Attorney General NYAG.
In June 2004 PBA reached from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
agreements with the SEC and the NYAG, which settled all charges brought by those authorities against PBA in relation to market timing in the US mutual fund business.
PBA neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing.
Under the settlement PBA agreed to pay $40 million disgorgements of past fees plus $50 million in penalties.
In addition PBA agreed to reduce fees to investors by approximately $10 million over the next five years.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 31 Some class actions related to the above remain pending.
It is not developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the possible to determine what the outcome of these class actions will external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account be and whether there will be any costs to the Group.
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm, and reporting to the Board any matters The Directors Report for 2003 also made reference to Nedcor, whose in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed 2003 results were poor due to the effect of adverse currency and interest and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and rate movements, amongst other things.
This resulted in Nedcor launching a rights issue to raise R5 billion of ordinary share capital to strengthen its reviewing whistleblowing arrangements i. e. arrangements by which capital position.
During 2004 the banks interest rate and currency risks staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible were minimised through proactive management.
Nedcors results for improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters with 2004 also contributed to an improvement in its capital position.
a view to ensuring that these arrangements enable the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and result in COMMITTEES appropriate follow-up action.
The Board has a number of standing committees or sub-committees, to which it has delegated various matters in accordance with terms A number of audit or audit, risk and compliance committees operated at of reference contained in the Scheme of Delegated Authority.
It also subsidiary level during 2004, including at Old Mutual Financial Services establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal with particular matters UK plc, Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited, as and when thought fit: in doing so, it specifies a remit, quorum and Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. Nedcor Limited and Mutual & Federal appropriate mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Further Insurance Company Limited, with terms of reference in relation to the information on the main standing committees and sub-committees of businesses under their respective remit broadly equivalent to those the Board is set out below.
The Committee receives minutes of the proceedings and reports from subsidiary audit committees on a regular basis and Group Audit Committee Chairmen of these subsidiary audit committees are invited to attend Current members: N N Broadhurst Chairman, N D T Andrews, meetings of and report to the Committee periodically.
A planning meeting R Bogni, C D Collins, R P Edey.
Other member during part of 2004: was held between the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairmen of WAMClewlow.
Secretary: M C Murray the subsidiary audit committees mentioned above, the regional heads of All of the members of the Group Audit Committee are independent internal audit and representatives of the Groups auditors in October 2004 non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Broadhurst, to co-ordinate the audit committees activities and to review and approve is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and relevant financial the scope of internal audit plans for 2005.
Similar planning meetings experience, having been Finance Director of Railtrack plc until 2000. will take place on an annual basis going forward.
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role and Actuarial Review Committee responsibilities and these include: Current members: R Bogni Chairman, M J Levett, J V F Roberts.
Secretary: M Carey monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company The Actuarial Review Committee is a sub-committee of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial Audit Committee and covers the Groups life operations worldwide.
performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting The role of the Committee is: i to review the actuarial content of the life judgements contained in them: assurance figures included in the Groups externally published financial statements annual and interim : ii to verify the appropriateness of reviewing the Companys internal financial controls: the actuarial methods and assumptions used and changes thereto and the appropriateness of the financial results which depend on actuarial monitoring and reviewing the independence and effectiveness of the calculations: and iii to review the financial soundness of each of the Companys internal audit function and its activities.
An internal audit life assurance companies within the Group.
The Committee met four times charter, reviewed and approved by the Committee, governs internal during 2004 and each meeting was attended by all of the members.
audit activity within the Group and is conducted in accordance with an annual audit plan.
Progress against that plan is reported regularly Upon Mr Levetts retirement in May 2005, Mr Broadhurst will replace to the Committee: him as a member of this Committee and Mr Sutcliffe will replace Mr Roberts, so that there will continue to be a qualified actuary receiving and reviewing reports on risk.
Management teams in each as a member of the Committee.
subsidiary and business unit have applied the Criteria of Control Model CoCo developed by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants Remuneration Committee to produce a control integrity profile for successive assurances given at Current members: C D Collins Chairman, N D T Andrews, increasingly higher levels of management and finally to the Committee.
Other member during part of 2004: This process is co-ordinated by the Group risk function: WAMClewlow.
Secretary: M C Murray Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee and making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders how the Remuneration Committee and the Board have applied the for their approval in general meeting, in relation to appointment, main and supporting principles and the Code Provisions in Section B re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approving of the Combined Code are provided in the Remuneration Report.
their remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: 32 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued Nomination Committee Executive Committee Current members: M J Levett Chairman, N D T Andrews, R Bogni, Current members : J V F Roberts, J H Sutcliffe N N Broadhurst, W A M Clewlow, C D Collins, R P Edey, M J P Marks, The Executive Committee is a committee comprising the executive J H Sutcliffe.
Secretary: M C Murray directors of the Company, to which executive control and decisionThe Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board in making are delegated, subject to reservation of matters that require relation to the appointment of directors, the structure of the Board and approval by the Board itself.
A quorum comprises the two executive membership of the Boards main standing committees.
The Committee met 16 times during 2004. development and succession plans for the most senior executive management of the Group and proposed appointments to the Boards Group Capital Management Committee and standing committees of principal subsidiaries where these are Current members : J V F Roberts Chairman, D I Hope, A Patterson, material in the context of the Group as a whole.
It is chaired by the M Walton, J H Sutcliffe.
Secretary: D I Hope Chairman of the Board, Mr Levett, and a majority of its members The Group Capital Management Committee is a sub-committee of the six out of nine are independent non-executive directors.
Its role is: i to set an appropriate framework and guidelines to ensure the appropriate management of the Groups capital: The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its process for identifying ii to support the Business Planning and Quarterly Business Review candidates for recommendation to the Board as new directors is formal, process in terms of allocating capital to the Groups businesses: and rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies generally arise in the context of either iii to monitor the return based on allocated capital per business relative planned refreshing and renewal of the Board, or replacing directors to the hurdle rate and limit the allocation of capital to underperforming who are due to retire, or rebalancing the balance of knowledge, skills businesses, as appropriate.
In addition, it is tasked: i to ensure that or independence of the Board.
The two new independent non-executive the strategic investment goals of the Group are clearly disseminated: directors appointed during 2004, Mr Marks and Mr Edey, were selected ii to consider and approve the overall investment strategy of the to increase the cadre within the Board who had direct experience of Groups shareholders funds, including those supporting regulatory international financial services markets.
External search agents were and solvency capital, in order that the shareholders assets are managed provided with guidelines on objective criteria for the individuals sought prudently having regard to risk, liquidity, tax and the need to support and recruitment of the two new non-executive directors followed a shortthe Groups businesses: and iii to consider projects referred to it and listing and interview process which involved a majority of members of the to approve or, where appropriate, refer up for approval those deemed Board.
Professor Nkuhlu, who is joining the Board from 1 March 2005, most likely to support the Groups core strategies and to build shareholder was selected from a short list of eligible South African candidates value.
The Committee met twice during 2004 and both meetings were to replenish South African representation on the Board following attended by all of the members.
Mr Liebenbergs and ahead of Mr Levetts retirements.
In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring that they will have Terms of reference sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments to The terms of reference of each of the principal committees of the Board devote to discharging their duties as directors of the Company.
are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website, www.
com, and may also be obtained upon request Chairmans Selection Committee free of charge from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
The question of Chairmans succession was dealt with during 2004 through a separate committee established by the Board, comprising The membership and chairmanship of the Boards standing committees Messrs Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst and Clewlow.
Objective criteria for are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure the successor were agreed by members of the Committee: these included that they are refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on an assessment of the time commitment expected an average of two particular individuals.
to three days per week and the need for the person appointed to be available in the event of crises.
Each of the Group Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees conducted a self-assessment exercise during 2004 to address, inter The results of an external confidential search for potential candidates alia, whether their respective terms of reference had been satisfactorily were reviewed against internal candidates.
Having weighed up the fulfilled during the year, whether the Committees had the necessary respective merits of all potential candidates who had been identified, skills and resources and were receiving a satisfactory level of information the Chairmans Selection Committee recommended to the Board that in order to discharge their responsibilities, and whether their processes Mr Collins be appointed as Chairman elect to succeed Mr Levett in and methods could be improved.
These were each conducted by May 2005.
This recommendation was unanimously endorsed by the anonymous questionnaires to members of the Committee concerned and Board in the absence of Mr Collins himself, subject to Mr Collins other key participants in the Committees activities including the external confirmation that he would, by the time the appointment took effect, auditors, in the case of the Group Audit Committee and the results were have stepped down as Chairman of Hanson PLC, so as to avoid his collated by the Company Secretary and reported to the Committees being chairman of two FTSE 100 companies at the same time.
Mr Collins main other commitments are as Chairman of Forth Ports PLC and as a non-executive director of The Go-Ahead Group plc and Alfred McAlpine PLC.
He has confirmed to the Company that these will not adversely affect his ability to discharge his role as Chairman of the Company.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 33 ATTENDANCE RECORD All projects in excess of 300,000 R4.5 million are to be subject to The following table sets out the number of meetings held and individual competitive tender and agreed by the Group Finance Director or directors attendance records at the Board and its principal standing the Group Chief Executive, and any projects in excess of 1,000,000 committees in 2004: R15 million are to be pre-approved by the Group Audit Committee.
Group Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Cumulative non-audit fees excluding audit-related fees such as review scheduled ad hoc Committee Committee Committee of regulatory returns for the Group should not exceed total statutory No.
of meetings held 9 4 5 3 5 audit and audit-related fees in any one year without the approval of N D T Andrews 9 9 4 4 4 5 2 3 the Group Audit Committee.
R Bogni 8 9 3 4 4 5 4 5 N N Broadhurst 8 9 2 4 5 5 3 3 5 5 All non-audit work placed with the external auditors should be W A M Clewlow 8 9 3 4 5 5 2 3 4 5 retrospectively reported to the appropriate audit committee.
C D Collins 9 9 2 4 4 5 3 3 5 5 The Group Audit Committee considered the balance of audit and R P Edey 6 6 2 2 1 2 non-audit remuneration paid to KPMG at its meeting in February 2005 M J Levett 9 9 4 4 5 5 and declared itself satisfied that the non-audit work was awarded C F Liebenberg 6 6 3 3 4 4 on arms length terms and did not compromise the independence M J P Marks 6 8 3 3 1 2 of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company.
J V F Roberts 9 9 4 4 J H Sutcliffe 9 9 4 4 5 5 KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and, following a recommendation by the Messrs Levett, Roberts and Sutcliffe attended all of the Group Audit Audit Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing its re-appointment Committee Meetings held during 2004 at the invitation of the Chairman will be put to the Annual General Meeting Resolution 4 in the Notice of of that Committee but were absent for the private sessions between Annual General Meeting.
members of that Committee and the auditors.
Messrs Levett and Sutcliffe also attended all of the Remuneration Committee Meetings Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with KPMG, for at the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, appropriate audit partner rotation in accordance with recommendations but absented themselves for any matters relating to their own respective of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
No one other than the Chairman and result of these, the current lead audit partner in the UK, Mr Richard the members of the Group Audit Committee, Nomination Committee Bennison, will be succeeded during 2005 by Mr Alastair Barbour.
or Remuneration Committee has a right to be present at their respective meetings: attendance by others is always at the invitation of the Chairman ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Committee concerned.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to provide an update on the Groups first quarters trading.
A full transcript of the AUDITORS AGM proceedings is made available on the Companys website as soon During the year ended 31 December 2004 fees paid by the Group as practicable after the end of the Meeting.
All items of formal business to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its associates KPMG at the AGM are now conducted on a poll, rather than by a show of totalled 5.2 million for statutory audit services, 2.2 million for other hands.
The Company has arrangements in place through its registrars, audit and assurance services, and 4.9 million for tax and other services.
Computershare Investor Services, to ensure that all validly submitted In addition to the above, Nedcor paid a further 2.5 million to Deloitte proxy votes are counted, and a senior member of Computershares &Touche in respect of joint audit arrangements.
The primary staff acts as scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly received component within the 4.9 million paid to KPMG for tax and other and recorded.
services was advisory work in connection with the Groups transition to reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards.
Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a separate resolution and the business of the AGM always includes a resolution The following guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit relating to the approval of the Report and Accounts.
All directors, Committee and are applied in placing non-audit work: including the Chairmen of the Group Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees who are available to answer any questions on the matters No non-audit work should be given to the external auditors where the covered by these Committees, are expected to attend the AGM and all consequences of using them would mean that they were effectively of them did so in 2004. auditing their own work.
However, this does not preclude the provision of accounting resources on contract or secondment, provided that The notice of AGM and related materials contained in the Report and those specific resources are not involved in the audit and would be Accounts or Summary Financial Statements are sent out to shareholders managed by an individual partner not involved in the audit.
in time to arrive in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
All non-audit related work undertaken by the external auditors would normally be the responsibility of a partner not involved in the Companys Results of the AGM and Court Meeting in 2004 audit.
However, there may be certain assignments which are so closely All resolutions considered at the Companys AGM held on 14 May 2004 related to the audit e. g. certificates, bad debt reviews, regulatory returns and the Meeting of Shareholders convened by order of the UK High or which involved a transaction e. g. acquisition or disposal that it Court the Court Meeting on 14 May 2004 to consider a scheme would be sensible for the audit partner to undertake those assignments.
of arrangement to authorise the directors to extend the Companys unclaimed shares trust arrangements were dealt with on a poll.
All non-audit projects in excess of 50,000 R750,000 placed with The results of the polls on each of the resolutions were announced the external auditors should be agreed by the Group Finance Director.
to the markets later on 14 May 2004 and were as follows: 34 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Resolution 1 Resolution 8 To receive and adopt the directors report and accounts Authority to allot equity securities up to maximum nominal aggregate In favour Against % in favour amount of 19,187,000 1,783,591,896 2,899,368 99.84% In favour Against % in favour 1,394,035,668 424,243,718 76.67% Resolution 2 To declare a final dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share Resolution 9 In favour Against % in favour Authority in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 1,826,191,939 96,335 99.99% to purchase up to 383,752,930 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Resolution 3 i Company by way of market purchase Election of Michael Marks as a director of the Company In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,817,474,833 4,974,669 99.73% 1,815,895,358 1,073,589 99.94% Resolution 10 i Resolution 3 ii Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be Re-election of Rudi Bogni as a director of the Company bought back on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,815,787,183 1,105,695 99.94% 1,817,316,278 1,495,217 99.92% Resolution 3 iii Re-election of Norman Broadhurst as a director of the Company Resolution 10 ii In favour Against % in favour Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be 1,805,146,590 6,303,783 99.65% bought back on the Namibian Stock Exchange In favour Against % in favour Resolution 3 iv 1,816,549,384 1,674,309 99.91% Re-election of Julian Roberts as a director of the Company In favour Against % in favour Resolution 10 iii 1,809,742,666 7,356,819 99.60% Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be Resolution 4 bought back on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,816,778,772 1,568,199 99.91% 1,797,800,999 7,506,721 99.58% Resolution 10 iv Resolution 5 Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be To authorise the Audit Committee of the Company to settle the bought back on the Malawi Stock Exchange remuneration of the auditors In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,816,431,152 1,686,756 99.91% 1,804,581,632 3,823,078 99.79% Resolution 6 Resolution 11 To approve the Remuneration Report in the Companys report Adoption of amended Articles of Association and accounts In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,861,828,092 322,342 99.98% 1,649,850,335 33,853,841 97.99% Resolution 12 Resolution 7 Approval of arrangements relating to the proposed extension of the Authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal Unclaimed Shares Trusts, including amendment of the Companys amount of 127,917,000 objects clause In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 1,350,584,574 468,340,374 74.25% 1,853,573,012 607,237 99.97% During the meeting the Chairman, Mr Levett, made the following Each of the resolutions at the 2004 AGM was accordingly duly passed.
statement: Court Meeting relating to the Companys Unclaimed Shares Trusts This Resolution, which is in accordance with UK institutional investors Resolution to approve the proposed scheme of arrangement guidelines, does not accord with what is now regarded as best practice In favour Against % in favour in South Africa.
1,711,443,781 527,488 99.97% In the light of this, the Board undertakes that the Company will not use The Court Meeting resolution was accordingly duly passed and the the authority to be granted by this resolution beyond 10% of the existing scheme of arrangement authorising the directors of the Company issued shares that is, to an aggregate nominal value of 38,374,000 to extend the period within which claims can be made to certain without coming back to shareholders, notwithstanding the higher entitlements that arose upon demutualisation of the Group was figure contained in the resolution.
subsequently confirmed, without amendment, by the UK High Court.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 35 INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Risk governance The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups The formal governance structures described earlier in this report are system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst complemented by a risk governance model based on three lines of the role of executive management is to implement Board policies defence.
This model distinguishes between functions owning and on risk and control.
managing risks, functions overseeing risks and functions providing independent assurance: Executive management have implemented an internal control system designed to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Group The Board sets the Group's risk appetite, approves the strategy for and its business units and aimed at enabling management to respond managing risk and is responsible for the Group's system of internal appropriately to significant business, operational, financial, compliance control.
The Group Chief Executive, supported by the plc Management and other risks to achieving the Groups business objectives.
These Board, has overall responsibility for the management of risks facing include protecting policyholders interests, safeguarding shareholders the Group and is supported in the management of these risks by investments, safeguarding assets from inappropriate use or from loss management at the operating subsidiaries.
Management and staff or fraud, ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed, and within each business have the primary responsibility for managing addressing any social, environmental or ethical matters that have risk.
They are required to take responsibility for the identification, significance for the Groups businesses.
assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of enterprise risks arising within their respective areas.
The system of internal control also helps to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, The second line of defence is provided by the Group Chief Risk and internal policies with respect to the conduct of business.
Officer, supported by the Group risk function and other specialist in-house functions at Company and subsidiary levels, who provide The Groups internal control system is designed to manage, rather than technical support and advice to operating management to assist them eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives, with the identification, assessment, management, monitoring and and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against reporting of financial and non-financial risks.
The Group risk function material misstatement or loss.
recommends Group Risk Policies to the Board for approval, provides objective oversight and co-ordinates ERM activities in conjunction Approach to risk management with other specialist risk-related functions.
Group risk is not, however, Creating shareholder value is the Groups overriding business objective, accountable for the day-to-day management of financial and and the Group therefore derives its approach to risk management non-financial risks.
and control from a shareholder value perspective.
As a result, the risk process covers a much broader range than the narrowly defined The third line of defence is designed to provide independent objective traditional risk categories and specifically includes strategic risk, also assurance on the effectiveness of the management of enterprise risks referred to as business risk, and Enterprise Risk Management ERM.
This is provided to the Board through the Group Internal Audit function, the external auditors and the Group Audit The Groups overall approach is to understand the diversity and Committee, supported by audit committees at subsidiaries.
full breadth of risk and then to manage it, with a strong emphasis on implementing controls that reduce residual risk to a level calculated to Risk appetite optimise the level of return on investment.
However, risk management The fundamental purpose of the Group's risk appetite is to define how is not limited solely to the downside or risk avoidance: it is about taking much risk the Group is willing to take.
Risks or events falling outside risk knowingly.
the agreed risk appetite are identified for immediate remedial action and subjected to executive management and audit committee oversight.
The Group operates a risk management framework, which is based The Group's risk appetite framework is currently under development on COSOs ERM Framework, and the Group is planning to transition and will encompass: i a process for setting the Group risk appetite: more fully to the COSO framework.
The current risk framework contains ii a process for allocating the Group risk appetite among the business the following components: i a robust risk governance structure: ii risk units, including the identification of existing appetites for risk within appetites established at Group and subsidiary level: iii Group-wide risk those businesses: iii risk reporting against those limits: iv application policies: and iv methodologies that focus on risk identification, risk of stress and scenario testing: and v risk appetite governance laid measurement, risk assessment, action plans, monitoring and reporting.
down in a Group risk appetite policy.
Each component is explained in more detail below.
Some components of the Group risk appetite are dependent on the completion of the Groups Economic Capital project, which is currently scheduled for completion in 2006.
36 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued Group risk principles Monitoring and control Group risk principles have been established for each major risk The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to provide This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational management teams across the Group with guiding principles within and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Business unit risk policies expand on these principles and contain detailed requirements and or limits for the Management teams in each subsidiary and business unit have applied specific business concerned.
the Criteria of Control Model CoCo developed by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants, and have produced a control integrity profile Adherence to these principles provides the Board and the Companys for successive assurances given at increasingly higher levels of stakeholders with assurance that high-level common standards are management and finally to the Group Audit Committee.
This process consistently applied throughout the Group and also contributes to is co-ordinated by the Group risk function.
how the Group governs itself.
Risk monitoring is also undertaken at Group, Principal Subsidiary and Group risk principles are reviewed annually.
business unit level by management, ERM functions, specialised risk management functions, internal audit and subsidiary audit committees.
Risk methodologies Risk identification The following are some of the other key processes of risk monitoring Strategic objectives reflect managements choice as to how the Group used around the Group: will seek to create value for its stakeholders.
Strategic objectives are translated into business unit objectives.
Risks and risk events are then The Group Finance Director provides the Board with monthly identified that would prevent the achievement of both the strategic and performance information, which includes key performance and risk business objectives, i. e. objective-setting is a pre-condition to the risk indicators.
These are complementary to the monthly management management process.
For this reason, risk identification is part of the reports, which include a status report on key risks to the achievability annual business planning process.
The resultant risks are recorded in of business objectives.
a risk register, with details of existing controls or actions to mitigate the risks and any associated time frame, details of who owns the control or Items on risk logs and control logs which contain details of any action plans and a measure of the residual risk.
Where the residual risk control failures are reported pursuant to an escalation protocol to is deemed to be outside the risk appetite, it is transferred to a control the appropriate level of management board or committee, where log for remedial action.
rectification procedures and progress are closely monitored.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion Risk assessment and measurement by internal audit and, as appropriate, by the Group Audit Committee Various means of assessing and measuring enterprise risks and risk and Board.
events are used throughout the Group.
These include estimating the financial impact and the likelihood of risk occurrence, trend and traffic Exposure reporting, risk concentrations and solvency and capital light assessments and high medium low assessments.
With regard to adequacy reports are submitted to the relevant credit and capital credit risk, asset and liability risk and market risk, a mixture of quantitative management committees in the normal course of business.
Where and qualitative measurement methods is used by the business units exposures are in excess of limits, they are treated in the same way commensurate with the complexity of the risk, such as exposures as control breakdowns and reported on the relevant control log for against limits, stress and scenario testing, sensitivity analysis and audit committee review.
The Groups internal audit function operates on a decentralised basis Action plans co-ordinated at Group level by the Group head of internal audit, Detailed action plans to mitigate the occurrence of a risk or to remedy who reports directly to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee a breakdown in control are recorded on risk and control logs maintained and the Group Chief Executive.
It carries out regular risk-focused by each business grouping.
reviews of the system of internal control and reports to local executive management, with unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 37 Reporting For fixed annuities, market risks are managed by investing in fixed interest As part of the Boards annual review process, the Chief Executive of securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
each of the Groups major businesses completes a letter of representation.
Market risks on policies where the terms are guaranteed in advance This letter confirms that there has been no indication of any significant and the investment risk is carried by the shareholders, principally business risk occurring, nor any material malfunction in controls, reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit annuity book, which procedures or systems during the reporting period, resulting in loss or is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies reputational damage, which impacts negatively on the attainment of the are also suitably matched through comprehensive investment guidelines.
businesss objectives during the year and up to the date of approval of Market risks on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, the Annual Report.
Exceptions are noted and reported.
In addition the are minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
letter confirms that the business unit will continue as a going concern for the year ahead.
The collated results of these letters are reported to Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the value of securities are the Group Audit Committee.
modelled by the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow Monthly management reports, reports by the Group Finance Director, the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
Credit risk is risk logs, control logs and exposure reports described under Monitoring monitored by the businesss Credit Committee covering life and third and control above also form part of the reporting process.
party funds, which has established appropriate exposure limits.
MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC RISKS Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa At Company level, the principal risks are the volatility of the major The exposure of the Groups asset management businesses to market currencies in which the Group operates Rand and US$ to Sterling, fluctuations gives rise to potential impacts on revenue levels, which are and investment market and interest rate movements.
a function of the value of client portfolios.
Investment risk is principally borne by the client.
Compliance risks faced by these businesses are Given the lack of deep and liquid markets for African trading currencies monitored and reviewed by compliance and risk committees established and the size of currency-related risks, the Group does not currently for this purpose.
The risk of loss of key employees is managed by the use hedge translation risk for African currencies, although action may be of long term incentive schemes aligned with shareholder value targets, taken to hedge specific forecast cash flows, such as the payment of and by competition restrictions in employment agreements.
Nedcor In order to manage investment risk, the Group makes limited use of Risk is an integral component and driver of Nedcors success in achieving derivative contracts, outside regulated entities, only for the purposes shareholder value.
Nedcor does not, however, look to avoid risk, but of risk reduction or efficient portfolio management.
Speculative activity rather seeks to understand it, manage it effectively and measure it in is not permitted and all transactions must be fully covered by cash or the context of an appropriate system that derives its approach to risk corresponding assets and liabilities.
The total income from all derivative management and control from a shareholder value perspective.
instruments outside regulated entities is not material to the Group.
Nedcors risk process covers the entire range of risk categories and The other principal risks managed by the Groups businesses are specifically includes strategic risk and enterprise-wide risk management.
As a bank, Nedcors core activity is risk taking, and accordingly risk South Africa Life business management is seen as a core competency.
Underwriting risk is controlled by underwriting principles governing product repricing procedures and authority limits.
The underwriting Risks relating to trading and non-trading activities are managed through process takes into account actual and prospective mortality, morbidity a framework of policies, methods and independent monitoring committees.
The impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible by writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis Asset and liability management is conducted within a formal structure or are priced to allow for the expected effects of AIDS.
The Group also which monitors the levels of acceptable financial risk.
This structure is not conducts HIV and other tests for lives insured above certain values and heavily reliant on trading securities and derivatives, but focuses on using offers reduced premiums for those willing to undergo regular testing.
38 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued Interest rate risk for Nedcor is its net income exposure to adverse The guaranteed returns provided under Equity Index Annuities are movements in rates arising as a result of mismatches in the repricing dynamically hedged to ensure a close matching of option payoffs to terms of assets and liabilities.
Prospective repricing of assets and the liability growth.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust liabilities is assessed using gap analysis and earnings at risk modelling them as necessary.
techniques to quantify the potential impact.
Credit risk is monitored by the business's Investment Committee, Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to raise funds at market prices which has established appropriate exposure limits.
to meet commitments as they fall due or to satisfy client demands for funds.
This risk is managed by the maintenance of adequate capital, US Asset Management combined with sophisticated cash flow forecasting and strategic The exposure of the Groups US asset management businesses to planning, maintaining an adequate pool of high quality marketable market fluctuations gives rise to potential impacts on revenue levels, assets and ensuring appropriate diversity in liabilities.
which are a function of the value of client portfolios.
Compliance risks faced by these Credit risk is governed by policy guidelines and administered by businesses are independently monitored and reviewed by compliance an appropriately constituted committee at Nedcor, which approves functions and committees, which also need to meet stringent US all facilities in excess of 10% of capital, and also monitors other regulatory requirements.
The risk of loss of key employees is managed large exposures, risk limits, provisions and non-performing loans.
by the use of long-term incentive schemes aligned with shareholder Concentrations in country credit risk are similarly managed.
value targets, and by competition restrictions in employment agreements.
Nedcors trading in foreign exchange and interest rate markets primarily involves interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, bonds and bond UK options.
Currency options, equities and equity derivatives are also traded The UK asset management business is exposed to market fluctuations on a limited basis.
Trading exposures are measured using sensitivity in terms of the potential impacts on revenue levels, which are a function analysis, value at risk and scenario testing, and Nedcor operates a of the value of client portfolios.
This exposure is reduced through product formal system of monitoring and oversight on market trading risk.
diversification, including through the portfolio of hedge funds managed by Old Mutual Asset Managers UK.
Mutual & Federal Underwriting risks are controlled through a formal system of parameters The business is exposed to operational risk.
The means of managing within Mutual & Federal, which is regularly updated and only deviated this include: tight control environment, careful planning and controlled from following approval by senior management.
Reinsurance cover execution of business integration, stress testing and parallel running of is in place, with retentions set at conservative levels.
Equity price risk new operational systems and software, monitoring of operational key risk is covered by the capital strength of the Mutual & Federal group.
indicators, performing regular audit reviews, and maintaining insurance policies.
US businesses US Life The Groups UK businesses operate in a highly regulated and changing Underwriting risk is controlled by underwriting principles governing environment.
Compliance risk is mitigated through embedded compliance product repricing procedures and authority limits.
The underwriting procedures and controls, ensuring adherence to regulations, and process takes into account prospective mortality, morbidity and expense ongoing compliance monitoring by internal compliance functions.
A large amount of the mortality and morbidity risk is reinsured to highly rated companies.
The risk of loss of key employees is managed by the use of long-term incentive schemes aligned with shareholder value targets, and by For fixed annuities, policyholder option risk is managed by investing competition restrictions in employment agreements.
in fixed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
Extensive interest rate scenario testing is required by regulatory authorities to ensure that the amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 39 POLICY MATTERS The Companys share registrars in the UK and each country where its shares are listed offer services to personal shareholders to deal with Relations with shareholders and analysts specific requests that they may have.
The Companys brokers in each The Company is committed to a continuing open dialogue with investors of the five markets where Old Mutuals shares are listed also maintain and analysts in order to raise understanding and awareness of the active communication with, and provide other services for, the Groups strategy, operations, management and plans and to realise Companys shareholders.
a fair valuation for the Companys shares.
The Board monitors investor relations matters closely and receives Under the programme for 2004, the Chief Executive and or the a report on the subject at each of its scheduled meetings.
It also receives Group Finance Director hosted over 100 one-to-one meetings across the results of an annual externally-conducted survey by Makinson Cowell, South Africa, the UK, the USA and Europe with current and potential which seeks to capture the views of the Companys largest shareholders investors.
A divisional executive accompanied them to almost half on a wide range of issues.
These include feedback on governance and of these meetings, in order to offer greater insight into their specific strategy.
The use of an external agency to collate these views enables business.
The programme was complemented by educational seminars shareholders to be more open about any concerns or issues they may on the Groups US life and asset management businesses held in the have.
In addition, the Chairman, the senior independent non-executive UK and South Africa.
director and the other non-executive directors attend various functions during the year to which major shareholders are invited, thereby enabling In addition to the above, the Corporate Affairs team carried out almost them to understand any issues or concerns that such shareholders may 100 meetings around the world, some in conjunction with the Treasury wish to raise.
Press cuttings and brokers and analysts comments on the team on non-deal roadshows.
Company are also provided to all of the directors on a weekly basis by the Corporate Affairs department.
Group strategy and performance are communicated to financial markets through annual and interim reports, news releases, speeches, The senior independent non-executive director, Mr Collins, currently transcripts and presentations, using a wide range of internal and obtains an understanding of issues and concerns of major shareholders external communication channels.
The Company holds two results primarily through the Makinson Cowell survey referred to above, but he meetings a year, at the time of its preliminary and interim results, also dealt with direct representations or issues from shareholders and and these are hosted and webcast simultaneously in London and other stakeholders during 2004.
In addition, in May and November the Company holds analyst teleconference calls to present its quarterly trading statements.
Employment matters Transcripts and materials are held on the Companys website to allow The Groups employment policies are designed to promote a working access subject to applicable legal restrictions for those unable to environment that supports the recruitment and retention of highly effective be present.
All major announcements by the Company are e-mailed employees, improves productivity and fosters relationships that build on to Corporate Affairs investor database as they are made public.
the diversity of its workforce.
They are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure their relevance for the locations to which they apply.
Whilst local The Companys shares are now covered by 20 analysts in South Africa employment policies and procedures are developed by each business and the UK and they offer commentary and views on valuation in the according to its own circumstances, the following key principles of Companys two major listed regions.
Corporate Affairs continued to strive employment are applied consistently throughout the Group: during 2004 to increase the coverage of the Companys shares outside South Africa so that a balanced spread of benchmarks and peer employees are recruited, retained, trained and promoted on the basis comparisons would be available.
of their suitability for the job, without discrimination in terms of race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, marital status, sexual The Companys website has undergone continued development in orientation or disability whether in existence at the commencement 2004, creating state-of-the-art tools for retail investors and allowing of employment or developing subsequently unrelated to the task at access to materials and records of all public presentations, as well hand.
In South Africa this principle is balanced with the requirement as media and regulatory communications.
to address issues of employment equity, and the local businesses practices take due account of this: Frequently asked questions are posted on the website and the Company responds to many direct requests for information and also provides answers to specific queries.
The website offers a wide range of services for investors, including the Companys share price, details of dividends, procedures for electing to receive communications electronically and other relevant data for shareholders.
40 | Corporate Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance and Directors Report Continued clear goals are established, together with training and feedback The benefits of a continuous drive to promote performance management on performance, to deliver the Group or business objectives and across the Group over the last three years are now being seen in to provide a satisfying working environment for employees: improvements in performance management processes and culture, measurement of performance and delivery, and the relationship a working environment is provided that meets the health and safety between performance and reward.
standards of the Group and local regulations and allows employees to work to the best of their abilities, free from discrimination and harassment: Key initiatives at the Groups South African businesses during 2004 included: employee involvement, consultation and communication are promoted through in-house publications, briefings, roadshows and internetHIV AIDS workplace programmes, which enable improved access to based channels: and counselling of employees and their families on HIV AIDS-related issues: the efforts of employees in contributing to the success of the Group active involvement by Old Mutual South Africa and Nedcor in working are appropriately recognised.
Compensation systems are structured through employer bodies to finalise proposals on the Financial Sector to recognise both the efforts of individuals and the performance of Charter dealing with Black Economic Empowerment and employment the sector of the business in which they work.
equity: and Various initiatives have been implemented to enhance talent acceleration of employment equity and management transformation management processes across the Group including: through cultural diversity and voluntary early retirement programmes.
using the Top Leadership Group, which comprises approximately Supplier payment policy 100 senior people from across the Group, to develop, review, In most cases suppliers of goods or services to the Group do so under implement and communicate talent management as well as standard terms of contract which lay down terms of payment.
In other other strategic initiatives: cases, specific terms are agreed beforehand.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that the terms of payment are notified in advance and adhered agreeing a common set of values to be applied consistently across to.
The Company has signed the Better Payment Practice Code, an the Group and encouraging their adoption and implementation initiative promoted by the Department of Trade and Industry in the through surveys, road shows, written media and incorporation UK to encourage prompt settlement of invoices.
into the performance appraisal cycle: The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its identifying international and other cross-business employment service company subsidiary, Old Mutual Business Services Limited opportunities to develop talented individuals across the Group: to trade creditors at 31 December 2004 amounted to 1,281,000, corresponding to 20 days payments when averaged over the year setting an objective for each of the Groups businesses to be an then ended.
employer of choice, supported by the creation of centres of excellence in human resource practice in the larger and more established Charitable contributions businesses.
These centres of excellence support and assist the The Company, its subsidiaries in the UK, and the Old Mutual Bermuda development and implementation of world-class practice in the Foundation collectively made charitable donations of 234,000 during Groups newer and smaller businesses: and 2004 2003: 222,000.
In addition, the Group made a wide range of other significant donations to charitable causes and social development continuing to focus on leadership and management development, projects, as described in more detail in the Corporate Citizenship supported by the Old Mutual Business School in Cape Town.
Environmental matters A description of the Groups environmental policy and activities during 2004 is contained in the Corporate Citizenship section of this document.
Corporate Governance and Directors Report | 41 OTHER DIRECTORS REPORT MATTERS Authorities from the shareholders for the Company to make market purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase Political donations contracts relating to each of the four African stock exchanges on which The Group made no EU political donations during the year.
US political the Companys shares are listed, up to an aggregate of 383,752,930 donations totalling $3,000 were made by the Groups US businesses of its own shares were in force at 31 December 2004.
No purchases during 2004. of shares were made pursuant to any of those authorities during the year then ended.
Dividend The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.5p per share, which, Substantial interests in shares together with the interim dividend of 1.75p per share paid in November At 28 February 2005, the following substantial share interests had 2004, makes a total dividend for the year of 5.25p per share.
Subject to been declared to the Company in accordance with Part VI of the shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Companies Act 1985: will be paid on 31 May 2005 to members on the register at the close of % of total business on 22 April 2005.
Shareholders on the South African, Malawi Number of shares issued shares and Zimbabwe branch registers and the Namibian section of the principal Barclays plc 159,868,102 4.15% register will be paid the final dividend in the respective local currencies of those territories by reference to the relevant exchange rates prevailing on 31 March 2005 30 March 2005, in the case of Zimbabwe, as Legal & General Investment determined by the Company.
The equivalents of the recommended Management Limited 131,113,007 3.40% Sterling dividend in these currencies will be announced by the Company on 1 April 2005.
It is expected that payment will be made via dividend Old Mutual Life Assurance Company access trust mechanisms in each country concerned.
This means that South Africa Limited 274,950,790 7.13% holders of shares on the South African branch register will receive their dividend from a South African domestic entity and will therefore not be Public Investment Commissioners subject to the South African tax on foreign dividends in relation to it.
of the Republic of South Africa 398,417,574 10.34% The Boards policy on dividends is to seek to achieve steadily increasing returns to shareholders over time, reflecting the underlying rate of progress Going concern and the cash flow requirements of its businesses.
The Board anticipates The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources declaring an interim dividend for the current year in August 2005, for to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Groups financial payment in November 2005. statements have accordingly been prepared on a going concern basis.
Share capital By order of the Board The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2004 was 385,394,299.00 divided into 3,853,942,990 Ordinary Shares of Martin C Murray 10p each 2003: 383,689,581.10 divided into 3,836,895,811 Ordinary Group Company Secretary Shares of 10p each.
During the year ended 31 December 2004, a total 28 February 2005 of 17,047,179 shares in the Company were issued at an average price of 85.08p each under the Groups share option schemes.
