Directors report continued 5 Directors interests in shares continued 5.3 The QUEST operates in conjunction with the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003 and the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 1993 : and shares are transferred from the QUEST to employees when they exercise options.
The directors, as beneficiaries under the QUEST along with group employees, are technically treated as having an interest in the shares held by the QUEST.
5.4 Details of options granted to and exercised by directors are set out on pages 56 and 57 in paragraph 5 of the directors remuneration report.
5.5 On 17 March 2005 an award of 7,036 ordinary shares was made under the Provident Financial Performance Share Plan.
Further details are set out on page 58 in paragraph 6 of the directors remuneration report.
6 Corporate governance Full details of the companys approach to corporate governance and the statement of compliance with the Combined Code are set out on pages 48 to 52 of the corporate governance report.
7 Employee involvement 7.1 The company operates three savings-related share option schemes referred to on page 43 in paragraph 3.2 above.
2,072 employees are currently saving to buy shares in the company under these schemes.
One of the three directors of the trustee company of the QUEST has been selected by group employees.
7.2 The company produces an annual report for staff which comments on the published annual results.
There are also operating company newsletters, team briefings, staff meetings and conferences, including trades union meetings in those companies which recognise unions.
7.3 The group operates a number of pension schemes.
Involvement in the two major group defined benefit pension schemes is achieved by the appointment of member trustees of each scheme and by regular newsletters and communications from the trustees to members.
In addition, there is a website dedicated to pensions matters.
The group also operates a stakeholder pension plan for employees who joined the group from 1 January 2003.
Employees in this plan receive regular newsletters and have access to a dedicated website which provides information on their funds.
7.4 The company achieved recognition by Investors in People in 1997 and re-recognition in 2003.
It is fully committed to encouraging employees at all levels to study for relevant educational qualifications and to training employees at all levels in the group.
8 Social, environmental and ethical matters 8.1 During the year, the company made donations for charitable purposes of 450,083 2003 270,820.
The group invested a further 1,168,324 2003 948,472 in support of community programmes based on the London Benchmarking Groups guidelines.
No political donations were made.
8.2 Details of the groups corporate responsibility activities are set out on pages 28 to 33 of the Chief Executives review and on the companys website.
8.3 The board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters to the businesses of the group.
A corporate affairs activity report, which deals with relevant matters, is presented at each board meeting.
An environmental report is presented to the board annually.
Responsibility for this area rests with executive director John Harnett.
8.4 SEE risks are dealt with by means of the companys risk management process: details of this are set out on pages 51 and 52 in paragraph 10 internal control of the corporate governance report.
The board considers that it has adequate information relating to SEE risks.
8.5 There are no specific remuneration incentives in the group based on SEE matters.
However, the annual bonus scheme for executive directors comprises specific objectives, which include such matters where appropriate: details of this are set out on page 54 in paragraph 3.6 of the directors remuneration report.
Details of training for directors are set out on page 49 in paragraph 2.15 of the corporate governance report.
8.6 The environmental strategy group, under the chairmanship of executive director John Harnett, has established working groups within the subsidiary companies.
During 2004 a programme of work was carried out to measure and improve the environmental impact of the groups operations.
The environmental programme is verified externally and is audited for compliance annually.
A review of other SEE matters was carried out during 2004 and a full programme of work and firm targets have been set for 2005.
9 Health and safety 9.1 The group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees and other people who may be affected by its activities.
9.2 The board has approved a group health and safety policy and a framework for health and safety.
It established the health and safety steering group which is chaired by the Company Secretary, Rosamond Marshall Smith.
This reports formally to the board each December on health and safety matters by producing a written report and has a general co-ordination role.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for the issue and implementation of its own health and safety policy as it affects the subsidiary companys day-to-day responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is considered at each board meeting and each board produces a written report for the health and safety steering group once a year.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 46 Directors report continued 10 Equal opportunities The company is committed to equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion and employment and does not discriminate on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, race or religion.
It gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons and to their subsequent training and career development.
Arrangements are made, where possible, for retraining employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities.
11 Supplier policy statement 11.1 The company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers and payment is made in accordance with these, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
11.2 The company acts as a holding company and had no trade creditors at 31 December 2004 or at 31 December 2003.
The average number of days credit taken by the group during the year was 16 days 2003 18 days.
12 European monetary union EMU Working parties have been established within the group.
They have considered the implications for the introduction of the euro.
Responsibility for EMU preparation rests with a steering group chaired by executive director John Harnett.
It is too early to forecast the potential costs should the euro be introduced in the UK.
13 Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM.
14 Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 24 May 2005 at the Cedar Court Hotel, Mayo Avenue, off Rooley Lane, Bradford, West Yorkshire BD5 8HZ.
The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of business, will be contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders to be dated 18 April 2005.
Approved by the board on 24 March 2005 Rosamond Marshall Smith General Counsel and Company Secretary 24 March 2005 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Corporate governance report 1 Introduction This section explains how the company has applied the main and supporting principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The statement of compliance is set out on page 52 in paragraph 13.
2 The board Composition 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The composition of the board is thus considered to be well-balanced.
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive 2.2 The board approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive on 10 December 2003.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing the board meetings and monitoring their effectiveness and chairing the AGM and the nomination committee.
He is also responsible for ensuring that an effective strategy is approved by the board and that an annual evaluation of the board is carried out.
The Chief Executive is primarily responsible for implementing the companys strategy, as well as being a focal point for communication with shareholders.
All other responsibilities, other than those detailed above, those reserved to the board as a whole and those reserved to the board committees, are the responsibility of the Chief Executive, who will delegate appropriately.
Chairman 2.3 The Chairman is also Chairman of Huveaux PLC and Eidos plc.
There has been no material change in his other commitments during the year or since the year end.
Non-executive directors 2.4 Each of the non-executive directors has been formally determined by the board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
2.5 Non-executive directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for one further three-year period and, in exceptional cases, further extended, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
2.6 Ray Miles has been appointed as the senior independent director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
2.7 Charles Gregson, the non-executive Deputy Chairman, was first elected to the board on 19 April 1995 and thus on 19 April 2005 ten years will have elapsed since his first election.
Notwithstanding this, the board has determined him to be independent in character and judgement.
In coming to this decision the board considered all the relevant circumstances but ultimately concluded that a term of office of ten years had not changed Charles Gregsons status, given that independence is ultimately determined by state of mind.
He continues to make a distinct and strong contribution to strategy discussions and his experience of international businesses is a particular asset to the group as it continues with international expansion.
In June 2004 the nomination committee reviewed the size, structure and composition of the board.
It took the view that the four current non-executive directors bring an appropriate balance of skills and expertise to the board.
Furthermore, although Charles Gregson has served for ten years, two of the non-executive directors have served for less than two years: these more recent appointments have ensured that the board has been refreshed and appropriately balanced.
Governance framework 2.8 The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 9 December 2004.
The board has appointed five committees.
All committees have written terms of reference which are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated on 9 December 2004.
The terms of reference can be found on the companys website or are available on request from the Company Secretary.
In addition, the group has detailed corporate policies which set out authority levels within the group.
Subsidiary companies are required to certify compliance with policies on an annual basis.
Meetings 2.9 The board normally meets seven times a year, including an annual planning conference.
A pack of board papers including a detailed agenda is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so that he has sufficient time to review them.
A detailed paper is provided on any issue where the board is to be asked to make a decision.
All directors are therefore able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings where necessary to progress the companys business.
In 2004 the Chairman met with the non-executive directors without any executive director present.
The non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans performance and the senior independent director was responsible for discussing this with the Chairman.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 48 Corporate governance report continued 2 The board continued Company Secretary 2.10 All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all the board committees.
Independent advice 2.11 There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of his duties at the companys expense.
This was last reviewed and updated by the board on 9 December 2004.
Re-election of directors 2.12 Under the companys articles of association, one third of the directors are obliged to retire each year and each director must offer himself for re-election every three years.
A director who is initially appointed by the board is subject to election at the AGM following his appointment.
In 2004 biographical details of the directors submitted for election and re-election at the AGM were supplied to shareholders in the circular dated 25 March 2004.
Policy on other board appointments 2.13 In December 2004 the board updated its policy on other directorships.
This applies to the Chairman and executive directors with effect from 1 January 2005 and to non-executive directors who are appointed, or whose term of office is extended, after 1 January 2005.
The policy is set out in paragraphs 2.13.1 to 2.13.3 below.
2.13.1 As was previously the case and as specified in the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, any proposed appointment to the board of another company will require the prior approval of the board.
2.13.2 An executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the board would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
2.13.3 The companys policy is that a non-executive director should have sufficient time to fulfill his duty as such, including chairing a committee.
The board will consider all requests for permission for other directorships carefully, having regard to the following principles.
A non-executive director would not be expected to hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he would not be expected to hold more than two material non-executive directorships.
Only one FTSE 100 company, or two FTSE 350 companies, should be chaired at any given time.
Performance evaluation 2.14 In December 2004 the board completed the second evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Chairman was primarily responsible for this evaluation and submitted a questionnaire to all directors.
This contained detailed questions on all aspects of the operation of the board and its committees and the performance of individual directors.
The senior independent director was responsible for collating comments on the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman appraised the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive appraised the other executive directors.
A summary of the evaluation was presented to the board on 9 December 2004, which included detailed comments made by directors.
The board considered the results of the evaluation and discussed them.
The overall view was that, taken as a whole, the board worked well and that the committees, systems and procedures were appropriate.
Training 2.15 Appropriate training and briefing is provided to all directors on appointment to the board, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit their individual needs including social, environmental and ethical training as appropriate and the Company Secretary, reporting to the Chairman, is responsible for identifying appropriate training courses for directors.
An annual update session is arranged for the board.
3 Report on the audit committee 3.1 From 1 January to 31 July 2004 this committee consisted of Charles Gregson, John Maxwell and Ray Miles under the chairmanship of Graham Pimlott.
Charles Gregson ceased to be a member from 31 July 2004.
Graham Pimlott has been Chairman of the committee since 30 June 2003.
3.2 The committee met four times during 2004, in February, April, July and December.
3.3 The committee makes recommendations to the board, for the board to put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
It reviews and monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
It develops and implements policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services and reports to the board identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
It monitors the integrity of the accounts of the company and the formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It also reviews the groups whistleblowing policy.
3.4 The groups internal audit function is provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
The committee formally agrees the internal audit plan once a year and reviews regular reports on the activity of the internal audit function.
As the internal audit function reports to the committee, this helps to ensure the functions independence from group management and ensures that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 49 Corporate governance report continued 3 Report on the audit committee continued 3.5 Meetings are attended by both the internal and external auditors as required and by the Finance Director and the director of group accounting.
Other directors and senior management attend only at the invitation of the committee.
At least once a year the members of the committee meet with the external auditors without an executive director or member of the companys senior management being present.
3.6 At its February and July meetings the committee had a separate session with the groups auditors  LLP PwC without any executive director or employee of the company or group being present.
This gave members of the committee the opportunity to raise any issues on the final or interim results of the group directly with PwC.
3.7 The committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the auditors are, and are perceived to be, independent and its work relating to this is summarised in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.13 below.
3.8 At its December meeting the committee considered a letter of independence provided by PwC.
3.9 In December 2004 the committee adopted a policy on the appointment of staff from the auditors to positions within the various group finance departments.
It grades appointments into four categories and sets out the approvals required.
Neither a partner of the audit firm who has acted as engagement partner, the independent review partner, other key audit partners or partners in the chain of command, nor a senior member of the audit engagement team, may be employed as group Finance Director or director of group accounting.
3.10 A formal policy on the use of external auditors for non-audit work was adopted by the company in 2003.
The committee reviewed the policy and its operation in December 2004 but did not recommend any changes.
3.11 The main elements of the policy are as follows.
The award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an independent audit and are perceived to be independent by the groups shareholders and stakeholders.
The performance of non-audit work by the groups auditors should be minimised and work should be awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers.
The group should maintain an active relationship with at least two other professional accounting advisers.
The nature and cost of all non-audit work awarded to the groups external auditors for the period since the last meeting and for the year to date will be reported to each meeting of the audit committee, together with an explanation as to why the auditors were the preferred supplier.
No information technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of the audit committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman of the audit committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
The auditors may not perform internal audit work.
3.12 In 2004 the committee considered a schedule of non-audit work carried out by PwC at each meeting.
Work carried out by PwC for the group in 2004 fell broadly into three categories: statutory audit and related services: assurance services including work in connection with regulatory compliance and tax services, comprising compliance and general tax advice.
Fees paid to PwC in 2004 are shown below: 2004 2003 000 000 Statutory audit 481 435 Audit services Audit-related regulatory reporting 38 49 Further assurance services 162 71 Tax services Compliance services 232 240 Advisory services 470 543 Other services 56 56 Total 1,439 1,394 3.13 In December 2004 the committee considered its effectiveness.
The overall view was that the committee was working effectively.
The committee also discussed the issue of training for its members and a proposal was agreed for the training of members of the committee.
Report on the nomination committee 4 4.1 Throughout 2004 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Charles Gregson, John Maxwell, Ray Miles and Graham Pimlott under the chairmanship of John van Kuffeler.
4.2 The committee met three times in 2004.
4.3 Its remit is to assist the board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director and to recommend to the board the appointment of any new director.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the board.
It considers and, if appropriate, recommends to the board the extension of the term of office of a non-executive director.
It considers the succession plan annually and reports to the board that it has done so.
4.4 In 2004 the committee recommended to the board the extension of Charles Gregsons term of office.
It reviewed the structure, size and composition of the board.
It considered the succession plan in December 2004 and reported formally to the board that it had done so.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 50
