20 Corporate Governance Report The Directors present their Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority issued in June 1998 the 1998 Code for the period under review.
The Code was augmented in 2003 for companies with financial year-ends beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the 2003 Code.
While the 2003 Code does not apply to the Companys 31 March 2004 year-end reported upon in this report and accounts, the contents of this report are nevertheless intended to address the subjects required under the 2003 Code, those required under the 1998 Code, as well as providing a description of the Companys governance environment in general terms.
The Directors continue to evaluate the composition of the Board and the Companys committee structure on an ongoing basis.
Where the 2003 Code necessitates disclosure of matters that are in the course of being addressed by the Directors but not yet in place, this is explained below.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is an investment trust managed by its Board of Directors the Board currently comprising nine Directors, two of whom are executive Directors, three of whom are non-independent non-executive Directors and the remaining four are independent non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys website www.
This is designed to prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in managing the Companys business within a framework of prudent and effective controls to facilitate assessment and management of risk.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to these ends, delegating as necessary to the Companys executive management.
In general terms, the executive management of the Company is responsible for the implementation and execution of the Boards strategic directives relating to investment management, the Companys governance and administration.
The full membership of the Board is set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Board met formally on four occasions in the year ended 31 March 2004.
Lord Rothschild, Mr Bailey, Mr Budge and Mr Knight attended each meeting: Mr Breuer-Weil, Baron Lambert and Mr Sofaer attended three meetings: Mr Barakett attended two meetings and Mr Pigozzi attended one meeting.
The non-executive Directors participate in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
Such discussions may take place in meetings of the committees constituted by, and reporting to, the Board.
There are four permanent committees, the composition of which are set out on page 13.
Each such permanent committee has its own Terms of Reference which may be viewed on the Companys website.
The permanent committees are as follows: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of three non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Company.
It is chaired by Charles Bailey, a former Senior Partner of Price Waterhouse, a member of the audit committees of three other public companies, and who the Board considers has appropriate financial experience.
The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the Companys interim and annual accounts, to consider reports thereon from the external audit process and to review any issues arising with the Companys management.
It may meet on additional occasions should the need RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Report 21 arise.
The Committee also monitors the adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting, which are discussed with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also considers the external auditors independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls at least annually.
The remaining matters on the Audit Committees Terms of Reference are considered as necessary.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the level of non-audit services provided to the Company by the auditors.
During the year, the Company was advised by  LLP on executive remuneration, as explained under Remuneration and Conflicts Committee on page 26.
Other non-audit services provided by  LLP were primarily in relation to taxation services and advice in connection with the Executive Bonus Scheme.
The membership of the Committee is set out on page 13.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in the year ended 31 March 2004.
In this period, Mr Bailey attended both meetings, Baron Lambert attended one meeting and Mr Knight, having been appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2004, had yet to attend a meeting.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee was established in March 2004.
It is comprised of four Directors, three of whom are independent and non-executive and the fourth is Lord Rothschild, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee will meet at least once a year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set out in its Terms of Reference, includes the leading of the process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and to review the suitability of those Directors who are retiring by rotation to stand for reelection.
The Committee will also monitor the composition of the Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession planning and the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Committee was established in March 2004 and therefore met formally on only one occasion in the year ended 31 March 2004.
All four members of the Committee attended this meeting.
The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee is comprised of three non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee meets at least once each year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as may be required.
Its primary responsibilities include the creation and maintenance of remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and motivate directors appropriately for a self-managed investment trust.
This includes the review of the total remuneration packages of the executive Directors, ensuring an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by reference to other companies of similar size and business objectives.
The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee is empowered to seek the advice of external remuneration consultants as and when appropriate.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference to the roles and time commitment of each individual concerned.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee to determine the policy for the pension arrangements of the executive Directors and to monitor and pre-approve any arrangements entered into between the Company and any of its Directors or their connected interests.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 22 Corporate Governance Report The full membership of the Committee is set out on page 13.
The Committee transacted business by meeting or written resolution on two occasions in the year ended 31 March 2004.
Mr Bailey and Baron Lambert participated on both occasions and Mr Knight, having been appointed with effect from 1 January 2004, participated once.
The Valuation Committee The Valuation Committee is comprised of two independent non-executive Directors, and meets at least twice each year on a regular basis and additionally as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys unlisted investments so that they are presented in the annual and interim accounts at a fair valuation.
Listed investments are also reviewed to assess whether there may be any need for the application of a discount to the market price, such as illiquidity.
The full membership of the Committee is set out on page 13.
Mr Bailey and Baron Lambert attended both meetings.
CHAIRMAN WITH EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the 2003 Code, which are concerned with the potential problems of combining the running of the Board with the executive responsibility for the running of the Company.
However, the Board believes that such problems are mitigated in the Companys case.
The Board has put in place a structure of permanent board committees, described above, designed to devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The Audit, Remuneration and Conflicts and Valuation Committees are each comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild, independent non-executive Directors represent a majority of its number.
The Board is therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power caused by the Chairman having executive responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both roles.
The Board believes that the current arrangements are appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders on an ongoing basis.
As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision.
This includes ensuring that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective contribution of the non-executive Directors.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE As described above, the Board is comprised of nine Directors of whom two are executive, three are non-executive but not independent and four are non-executive and considered by the Board to be independent.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards decision-making.
Half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is therefore comprised of non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The size and composition of the Board is considered to be suitable for the Companys size and business, whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
Of the four non-executive Directors considered by the Board to be independent, three do not meet one of the seven independence criteria set out in the 2003 Code, in that they have served on the Board more than nine years since the date of their first election.
Each of Messrs Bailey, Lambert and Pigozzi, the long serving Directors concerned, bring RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Report 23 relevant experience and knowledge to the Board without which its effectiveness would be reduced.
The Board believes that an in-depth knowledge of the Companys business derived from long service is an advantage, particularly in the circumstance of a selfmanaged investment trust.
Equally, the Board, through the Nominations Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an ongoing basis, the appointment of new directors to bring fresh impetus and objectivity.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD As explained above, the Company established its Nominations Committee in March 2004.
Within the scope of its Terms of Reference, this body will be responsible for the process of appointment of new directors to the Board.
As was the case prior to the constitution of the Nominations Committee, when appointments were considered by the Board alone, such appointments will be made on merit and ability to devote such time as is necessary to the position.
The Committee will also be mindful of succession planning and board balance when recommending future appointments to the Board.
Appropriate training on listed company governance and on the Company is provided to new directors on their first appointment.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information through the Company Secretary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
This is effected through regular oral and written communication as well as in the papers provided for each of the Companys scheduled board meetings.
Such communication is intended to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their respective roles on the Board or its committees.
The Directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and services.
The Chairman, the Nominations Committee and the Company Secretary will consider and effect a full, formal and tailored induction to any new director on joining the Board.
All Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, including legal advice, at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on corporate governance matters.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The 2003 Code will require the Company to report on the means by which performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted, in its next annual accounts for the year ending 31 March 2005.
This new obligation is being considered by the Board, although all evaluation responsibilities are expected to be delegated to the Nominations Committee, with individual committee members being prohibited from participating in the consideration of their own performance.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company has complied with the 1998 Code requirement for each Director to stand for re-election at least once every three years.
However, its Articles of Association provide for one third, but not more than one third, of the Directors to retire by rotation each year.
As it would not therefore be possible for the Company to comply with both the Articles of Association and the Combined Code in the event that the total number of directors ceases to be a multiple of three, a resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to bring the Articles into line with the Combined RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 24 Corporate Governance Report Code, and to accommodate the 2003 Code requirement that any director serving more than nine years since first elected should stand for re-election annually.
The Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are Mr Bailey, Mr Pigozzi and Lord Rothschild.
Biographical information on each is shown on pages 12 and 13.
However, all but two of the other Directors are also standing for re-election, as they would be required to do so under the the 2003 Code by virtue of their length of service.
The exceptions are Mr Knight, who has not served as a Director for more than nine years and Mr Budge, who would not be required to stand for re-election under the 2003 Code, as he is not a non-executive Director.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board and the directors of the management company maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the Chairman of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.
The net asset value of the Company is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
co. uk where shareholders have access to the latest monthly financial data released by the Company, together with historical information and accounts.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Statement of the Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework applicable throughout the Group.
The Board considers that the necessary procedures have been implemented to satisfy the requirements of the Financial Services RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Report 25 Authority with respect to the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999.
The Board has considered the need to establish a separate internal audit function.
However, it was decided that the size and nature of the Groups activities do not currently merit the additional expense and operational complexity that an internal audit function would incur.
This position is reviewed from time to time.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period through the monitoring processes set out below.
Control environment The Group has established an organisational structure which allocates defined levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group to a small number of senior executives.
An executive committee, which consists of the two executive Directors and senior executives, meets regularly to discuss matters of importance to the Group.
Risk management The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board in conjunction with the relevant executives.
The mitigation and monitoring of risks identified is undertaken by the Board or the executive committee as appropriate.
Detailed portfolio valuations are undertaken every week and these form the basis for risk control decisions regarding equity exposure, liquidity, market price risk and exchange rate risk.
Financial reporting and control procedures There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the executive management.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and reviewed regularly by the executive management.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
STATEMENT ON GOING CONCERN The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
