the new team is developing a strong performance culture and delivering good results We have appointed two new non-executive directors For the first time we have a Board level Group Risk Director as well as a new Chief Financial officer Operational management teams have been reenergised and restructured Remuneration is now closely linked to performance 12 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 New culture During the year we have continued to In the report last year we talked about the work being done to strengthen both the Board and leadership team.
embed a strong performance culture across the Group and how vital it was to our improvement and future success.
During 2004 New management significant work has been undertaken in support of this and the We have made four new appointments to the Board since last business has achieved a great deal, as can be seen in the 2004 years report.
financial results and the strengthened capital position.
This improvement could not have been achieved without the hard George Culmer, our new Chief Financial officer, who joined work, determination and support of our people worldwide.
us from Zurich Financial Services in May 2004 with a strong insurance and capital management background We have also made progress in realigning our reward structures Noel Harwerth, who joined the Board in March 2004 bringing to support the new culture at all levels in the business.
These broad experience including senior roles at Sumitomo Mitsui changes will be effective in 2005.
Bank and Citibank At executive level, reward systems have been made more heavily dependent on performance.
We explain the changes Malcolm Le May, who also joined the Board in March 2004 in detail in the Remuneration Report but one of the key with a background including senior roles at Morley Fund principles is that there should be strong and visible links Management and ING-Barings between remuneration and performance David Paige, Group Risk Director, who brings experience from Aviva, Zurich Financial Services and retail banking at National At other levels, the old reward policy of competitive base pay Westminster Bank and a particular knowledge of business and generous benets with little dependence on performance transformation programmes, joined us in February 2005 is being replaced by one where there is less emphasis on xed reward and more on performance related bonus potential We also appointed Mark Chambers as General Counsel and focused on key result areas such as underwriting for profit Group Company Secretary.
He has 15 years of legal expertise as as well as recognising individual contribution well as significant international experience gained from senior People now have a clear understanding of their responsibilities roles at GE and American Express.
and accountabilities and the direct link these have to their These appointments have supplemented the Board and remuneration.
It is this cultural change and focus on execution management teams and complement their existing strengths.
that has moved us from a Company that previously just talked Collectively they represent an impressive breadth and depth delivery to one that actually achieves it.
of experience within financial services and across other relevant sectors.
1 Andy Haste Group CEO 2 George Culmer Chief Financial officer 3 Duncan Boyle UK Chief 1 2 Executive 4 Mark Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 5 Jens Erik Christensen Chief Executive, Scandinavia 6 Tony Latham Group Director, Global Relationships 7 Simon Lee Chief Executive, International Businesses 8 Neil Macmillan Group Chief Auditor 9 Andy Nelson Group Director, Strategic Change & IS 10 David Paige Group Risk Director 11 John Tighe President & CEO, Royal & SunAlliance USA 12 Paul Whittaker Group Human Resources Director 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13
