Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23 Governance Nominations committee report This report sets out the membership of the Nominations Report on the Committees activities in 2004 Committee, its role, remit and activities during the year.
Meetings and Attendance The Committee, which meets periodically as required, met on five occasions during 2004.
Committee Members Attendance by Committee members at each of those meetings is The current members of the Committee are: set out in the table below: Michael Miles Chairman Maximum Meetings Andrew Beeson possible attendance attended Sir Peter Job Michael Miles 5 5 Merlyn Lowther Andrew Beeson 2 2 George Mallinckrodt Sir Peter Job 5 4 Kevin Parry Merlyn Lowther 2 2 Bruno Schroder George Mallinckrodt 5 4 David Swensen Kevin Parry 2 2 Bruno Schroder 5 5 During the year the Board decided that all non-executive Directors David Swensen 5 1 should be directly involved in the process for identifying and Charles Sinclair 1 1 selecting new appointments to the Board.
Consequently, Merlyn Lowther, Kevin Parry and Andrew Beeson joined the Principal issues addressed during 2004 were: Committee on 1st October 2004. the process used for Board appointments Charles Sinclair retired as a member of the Committee when he left the composition of the Board and proposed new the Board at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
David Swensen will non-executive appointments.
retire as a member of this Committee on 19th April 2005.
As set out in the 2003 Annual Report, the Board anticipated Terms of reference appointing a new independent non-executive Director during The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 2004 in order to achieve a more balanced composition.
Following reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for Merlyn Lowthers appointment in April 2004, Andrew Beeson joined recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board the Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, in October or of the Board Committees.
The Board intends to appoint a non-executive Director to replace David Swensen.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee include: Support The Committee received information and support from reviewing the size and composition of the Board management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and selecting candidates for appointment to the Board to meet the responsibilities effectively.
The Committee also sought and received desired composition external information and advice from Gow & Partners in relation to the proposed recruitment of non-executive Directors.
the procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board ensuring succession plans are in place for key Board members.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on www.
com or from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
