22 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Audit committee report This report sets out the membership of the Audit Committee, Maximum Meetings its role, remit and activities during the year.
possible attendance attended Kevin Parry 4 4 Committee Members Merlyn Lowther 3 2 Bruno Schroder 4 4 The current members of the Committee are: Charles Sinclair 1 1 Kevin Parry Chairman Andrew Beeson During the year the Committee met separately with the Groups Merlyn Lowther external auditors and with the Head of Group Internal Audit without executive management present.
Merlyn Lowther joined the Committee on 1st April 2004.
Andrew Beeson joined the Committee on 1st January 2005.
Charles Principal issues considered during 2004 were: Sinclair retired as a member of the Committee when he left the the annual financial statements for 2003 and interim financial Board at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and Bruno Schroder statements for 2004 retired from the Committee on 31st December 2004. the external audit plan for 2004 Financial experience For the purposes of the Combined Code, Group Internal Audits plans for 2004 and 2005 Kevin Parry is considered by the Board to have recent and the Groups risk management process, including key risks facing relevant financial experience.
the Group the Groups preparations for the adoption of International Terms of reference Financial Reporting Standards The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Group Internal Audits quarterly and annual reports on internal overseeing the financial reporting and internal control of the Group audit activities and the control environment and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the the external auditors year-end report and management letter Companys auditors.
the performance, independence and objectivity of the external The role of the Committee is to encourage and safeguard the auditors, including a review of non-audit fees highest standards of integrity, financial reporting, risk the arrangements for staff to raise concerns about possible management and internal control.
The principal responsibilities of improprieties relating to the Companys operations.
the Committee include: reviewing the form and content and monitoring the integrity of Non-audit services During the year the Committee approved a the Companys and the Groups financial statements policy covering the provision of non-audit services to the Group by the external auditors.
The policy was introduced to enhance monitoring and reviewing the arrangements for ensuring the further the governance around the provision of such services objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal audit and provide a clear and transparent framework to ensure the functions objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors Other issues The Committee received regular reports from the reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys Chief Financial Officer, the Group Compliance and Risk Director, internal controls and risk management systems the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
reviewing and monitoring the Companys ethical standards, It also reviewed reports on various subjects including a review of procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory and financial corporate governance and the Combined Code, the risk reporting requirements and its relationship with the relevant management framework, investment risk management, the Basel regulatory authorities.
consultation paper on banking supervision, governance of overseas funds, Group insurance arrangements, the governance The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on of Group pension arrangements, health and safety and disaster www.
com or from the Company Secretary at the recovery arrangements.
Committee evaluation The Committee undertook a review of Report on the Committees activities in 2004 its effectiveness as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
Further details on the evaluation process are set out in the Meetings and attendance The Committee met four times in Corporate governance report on page 9.
Attendance by Committee Members at each of these up to address the key findings of the evaluation process.
meetings is set out in the following table: Support to the Committee The Committee received information and support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
A programme of training and briefing has been arranged for Committee members including specific business related presentations at each Committee meeting.
The Committee has access to external independent advice.
