08 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report and Accounts describes The role of the Board is to be accountable to shareholders Schroders governance arrangements as follows: for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Corporate governance report pages 08 to 10 Board is responsible for the appointment of the Chief Executive, Remuneration report pages 11 to 21 the approval and monitoring of Group strategy and the review of Audit committee report page 22 financial performance within a framework of prudent and effective Nominations committee report page 23 risk management.
There is clear separation of the roles of the Corporate and social responsibility pages 24 and 25 Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Risk management and internal control page 26 Directors profiles pages 27 to 29 The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring Directors report pages 30 and 31 its effectiveness, monitoring and evaluating the performance of Notice of Annual General Meeting pages 32 to 34 the Chief Executive and maintaining a dialogue with the Shareholder information page 35 Companys shareholders.
Directors responsibility statement page 36 The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management of the business, including building shareholder value over the long-term through growth in profits and the recommendation and Schroders is committed to business integrity, high ethical values implementation of the Groups strategy and budget.
and professionalism across all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the Board of Schroders plc supports the highest The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders standards of corporate governance.
if they have concerns which have not been or cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or the executive Directors.
The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published The Senior Independent Director chairs meetings of the in July 2003, formally applied to the Company for the first time for non-executive Directors at which the performance of the Chairman the year ending 31st December 2004.
As required by the Listing is reviewed.
Rules issued by the UK Listing Authority, this report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in the revised The non-executive Directors The Board considers that Andrew Combined Code.
It also sets out the extent to which the Company Beeson, Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther, Kevin Parry and David has complied with the Codes provisions and provides an Swensen were independent non-executive Directors throughout explanation of those areas where the Company departs from them.
Each of them brings to the Board an objective viewpoint and none of the factors implying a lack of independence, as set The Board and how it operates out in the Combined Code, applies.
George Mallinckrodt and Governance Guidelines The Board has adopted the Schroders Bruno Schroder do not meet the test of independence in the Governance Guidelines which set out how the Board and its Combined Code.
However, the Board considers that both of them Committees operate and what is expected of the Directors and bring valuable experience to Board deliberations and that at all the way in which they discharge their duties.
The Guidelines are times they act in the best interests of all shareholders.
com or from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors commits sufficient time to the fulfilment of Composition The Board believes that it operates most effectively their duties as Directors of the Company.
The Chairmans external as a unitary board, with a good balance of executive Directors, commitments have not changed during 2004.
None of the non-executive Directors and Directors with a connection to the non-executive Directors has any conflict of interest which has not Companys principal shareholder group.
During the year, the been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys Board continued the process of rebalancing its composition which Articles of Association.
At the beginning of the year, the Board comprised five executive Directors and eight non-executive Directors, External non-executive directorships The Board believes, including the Chairman, of whom three were considered to be in principle, in the benefit of executive Directors accepting independent.
By the end of the year the Board comprised four non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widen executive Directors and eight non-executive Directors, including their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
Of the current non-executive Directors, five are the year the Group adopted a policy on external appointments, considered to be independent.
As announced on 24th February which applies to all employees, including executive Directors.
The 2005 David Swensen will step down from the Board on 19th April policy is designed to ensure that employees remain able to 2005.
The Board intends to appoint a replacement for David discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Further details of the changes in the composition of the employees are usually permitted to retain any fees paid in respect Board are set out in the Directors report on page 30.
Profiles of of such appointments.
Executive Directors may not take on more each of the Directors are set out on pages 27 to 29. than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship of such a company.
To avoid potential conflicts The Board is satisfied that no individual or group of individuals is, or of interest, non-executive Directors are expected to inform the has been, in a position to dominate the Boards decision making.
Chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 09 The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to its Support to the Board The Board Secretary is responsible for Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nominations advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate Committee.
Summaries of the terms of reference of these governance matters.
Directors have access through the Board Committees are set out on pages 11, 22 and 23 respectively, Secretary to independent professional advice.
The Company together with reports on the Committees activities during the year.
maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Each Committee reports to the Board on the matters considered, and any significant issues that have arisen, at the next Board Board meetings and attendance The Board held five meeting after the Committee has met.
All Directors receive copies scheduled meetings during 2004.
Two additional unscheduled of the minutes of all Committee meetings.
Board meetings were held during the year to approve two formal statutory matters.
Attendance at the scheduled Board meetings Information flow Non-executive Directors receive comprehensive is set out in the table below: reports about the Group and its business for the purpose of meetings of the Board and its Committees, as well as regular Maximum Meetings updates between meetings.
Directors also receive copies of the possible attendance attended minutes of the Group Management Committee meetings.
Michael Miles 5 5 Jonathan Asquith 55 Board effectiveness Andrew Beeson 2 2 Evaluation The Board, led by the Chairman, reviewed during Michael Dobson 5 5 the year the effectiveness of the Board and the principal Board Richard Horlick 5 5 Committees.
The first stage of the evaluation was the completion Sir Peter Job 5 5 of a Schroders-specific questionnaire by each Director.
The Merlyn Lowther 4 3 responses to the questionnaire were then analysed and discussed George Mallinckrodt 54 by the whole Board.
Areas for possible improvement were Kevin Parry 5 5 identified and appropriate changes are being implemented.
The Bruno Schroder 5 5 performance of individual Directors was considered in this context David Swensen 5 3 and is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Massimo Tosato 5 4 Nicholas Ferguson 1 1 The performance of the Chief Executive was considered by Charles Sinclair 1 1 the Chairmans Committee against his objectives agreed with the Andrew Sykes 1 1 Chairman for the year.
The outcome was discussed by the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
Chairmans Committee Meetings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors, usually without the executive Directors The Chairmans Committee, led by Sir Peter Job in his role as present, are held prior to most scheduled Board meetings.
Four Senior Independent Director, also assessed the performance of the such meetings were held in 2004 and matters discussed included Chairman with input from the whole Board.
Sir Peter discussed the evaluation of the Board, the performance of the Chairman with the Chairman the outcome of this review.
and the Chief Executive and senior management succession.
The Chief Executive attends these meetings as requested.
Separate evaluation questionnaires were used to review the effectiveness of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Delegated authorities The Board has a formal schedule of These questionnaires were completed by members of the matters reserved to it, subject to which authority to manage the Committees and their principal attendees including, in the case business is delegated to the Chief Executive.
He in turn delegates of the Audit Committee, representatives of the external auditors.
authority to the senior executive team which sits on the Group The responses to the questionnaires were analysed and Management Committee.
This Committee generally meets weekly discussed with the respective Chairmen and appropriate changes to oversee management of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive is Chairman of the Group Management A further evaluation will be undertaken in 2005.
The members and their areas of responsibility are set out below: Induction and updating of knowledge All new Directors undertake an induction programme on joining the Board.
Michael Dobson Chief Executive The aim of this programme is to introduce new Directors to Jonathan Asquith Chief Financial Officer the Groups business, its operations and its governance Paul Barry Human Resources arrangements.
The induction programme includes meetings Peter Clark Americas with senior management, visits to offices, presentations on key Lester Gray Asia Pacific business areas and relevant documentation.
Richard Horlick Investment Philip Mallinckrodt Corporate Development The Board receives presentations on business and functional areas, Sally Tennant Private Banking new business and strategic developments, changes to the Massimo Tosato Distribution regulatory environment and the impact of specific issues, such as Howard Trust General Counsel the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
10 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Corporate governance report Shareholder relations Neither Bruno Schroder nor George Mallinckrodt are considered independent under the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, Ongoing communication across the Companys shareholder less than half of the Board excluding the Chairman comprises base, including institutional investors and private and employee independent non-executive Directors.
With eight non-executive shareholders, is achieved mainly through the publication of the and four executive Directors, the Board believes that at this time, annual and interim reports and quarterly trading updates, the and in view of the significant changes to its composition recently, announcement of significant developments affecting the Group the size and balance of the Board is appropriate for Schroders.
and the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and investor Bruno Schroder is a representative of the principal shareholder information can be found at www.
group and the Board considers that it is appropriate for this group to be represented on the Board.
George Mallinckrodt is The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that dialogue not considered independent as he is a former executive Director with shareholders takes place.
During the year the Chief Executive of the Company.
The Board considers that his business and and the Chief Financial Officer conducted a series of meetings with international experience are of great value to the Board.
and presentations to institutional investors to review the Groups strategy and prospects and to discuss corporate governance Michael Miles was also Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc, matters.
The Chairman is also available to meet institutional another FTSE 100 company, throughout the period.
Michael shareholders, as is the Senior Independent Director.
Feedback Miles was appointed Chairman of both Schroders and Johnson from shareholders is available to the Board from the Chairman, the Matthey before the provisions of the new Combined Code were Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board has reviewed the Chairmans commitments and is satisfied that he continues to devote sufficient time to The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an Schroders to enable him to discharge his duties effectively.
opportunity to question the Chairman and other Directors, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Bruno Schroder was a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the notice Committees during the period.
He is not independent under the of meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days provisions of the Combined Code.
His continued membership of prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
the Committees was considered by the Board to be appropriate until such time as an additional independent non-executive Compliance with Code Provisions Director had been appointed to the Board and the Committees.
The Board is able to report substantial compliance with the Andrew Beeson joined the Board and the Remuneration requirements of the Combined Code.
The specific provisions with Committee on 1st October 2004 and the Audit Committee on which we have not complied during the reporting period, and the 1st January 2005.
Bruno Schroder stood down from both reasons why, are as follows: Committees on 31st December 2004.
Both Committees now comprise only independent non-executive Directors.
