28 In this section we report on our structure and corporate governance principles and processes.
The statement regarding compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority, is on page 34.
Corporate Structure The Board Corporate Structure Accountability and Audit Investment Trust Status Compliance with the The Second Alliance Trust PLC is an investment company.
After each accounting period it seeks approval as an investment trust Code of Best Practice under the Taxes Acts from the Inland Revenue.
Since receiving the last approval, which was for the year ended 31 July 2003, Directors Biographical the Company has conducted its affairs to enable it to continue Details to seek approval.
Structure The Company has a subsidiary, Second Alliance Leasing Limited SAL which administers a lease portfolio.
The Company also owns a 25% interest in both Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS and Alliance Trust Finance Limited ATF.
ATS, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provides a range of wrapper-products in the form of PEPs, ISAs, SIPPs and Investment Plans.
ATF carries out the administration, as agent, of lease finance portfolios for third parties and acts as agent for the acquisition of services and supplies required by the Company and the Alliance Trust PLC the Alliance Trust and its subsidiaries.
The Alliance Trust has a 75% shareholding in both ATS and ATF.
In the 1920s, the Company decided to conduct its operations alongside those of the Alliance Trust, another, larger, selfmanaged investment trust.
Staffing costs and the expenses of operating from Meadow House, Dundee where both companies have their office, are shared.
Since then, and in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the investment objectives and portfolios of both companies have been substantially aligned and the directors of both companies are the same individuals.
Should any potential conflict of interest arise, each company takes independent advice.
Corporate Governance Report 29 Non-Executive Directors The Board Lesley Knox Chairman The Second Alliance has a board of executive and non-executive William Berry Senior Independent Director directors, who are collectively responsible for the Company.
The William Jack Chairman of the Audit Committee boards main duties are: Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Risk Review Committee To set out the objective of the Company.
This is found on Christopher page 3 Masters Chairman of the Remuneration Committee To provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of The non-executive directors, who form a majority on the board, prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be are not salaried employees.
They receive fees in consideration assessed and managed.
How risk is managed is narrated on for carrying out their duties.
pages 33 and 34 As well as those collective duties which they have as members To set the policies, standards and values of the Company of the board, the non-executive directors scrutinise the and ensure that our obligations to our stockholders and performance of the executive, monitor the integrity of the others are understood and met financial information, and satisfy themselves that financial controls and systems of risk management of the Company are Executive Directors robust and defensible.
The non-executive directors, through the Alan Harden Chief Executive Remuneration Committee, also fix the remuneration of the David Deards Finance Director executive directors and, through the Nomination Committee, are primarily responsible for succession planning.
Sheila Ruckley Director of Risk Management Alan Young Investment Director There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, whose duty it is to run the board effectively, and that of the Gavin Suggett served as a director and Chief Executive until Chief Executive, who is charged with running the business of 31 December 2003, when he retired from both offices.
This separation of roles is documented Harden became a director and Chief Executive on 1 January in their respective job descriptions which are agreed by the 2004.
Gavin Suggett continued to be employed by the Company board as a whole.
in a consultative capacity until his retirement from the Company in May 2004.
Bruce Johnston retired as Chairman on 30 April 2004.
He has been succeeded in the Chairmanship of the Company by The executive directors are full-time salaried employees.
Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Gordon McQueen was appointed as a director on 2 June 2004.
Company and in doing this he delegates responsibilities to the other executive directors and other managers.
The Senior Independent Director is the director to whom stockholders should turn if they have issues which they consider are not being dealt with by the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
All the non-executive directors serve on committees of the board.
The main committees are the Nomination Committee page 30, the Remuneration Committee page 30 and pages 36 to 39, Audit Committee page 33 and the Risk Review Committee page 33.
30 Corporate Governance Report can be present regardless of any relationship or circumstance Nomination Committee and Appointments which may give rise to a presumption that it is absent, such as The board appointed a standing nomination committee with length of service on the board for a longer period than is effect from 1 February 2004.
Its members are Lesley Knox, currently recommended.
William Jack, Christopher Masters, Alan Harden and since 16 The board considers that all of the non-executive directors, July 2004, Gordon McQueen.
The Terms of Reference of the including William Berry who has been a director for more than Committee include the responsibility to have regard to the nine years, are indeed independent of mind, character and succession of the board and to identifying and nominating judgement and satisfy this independence test.
It is the Companys policy that the Chairman of the Company does not serve on any Nomination Meetings Committee dealing with the nomination of his or her successor, nor does any director proposed to succeed to such office.
The directors meet formally on a regular basis.
Ad hoc meetings may also be convened, and the committees of the board meet Before the appointment of the standing Nomination Committee, as required to discharge their specific duties.
the board as a whole considered succession issues and committees of the board were formed in respect of each appointment identified.
Decision-making Delegation to the executive is necessary for the efficient The nomination committee which considered the choice of Chief Executive comprised Lesley Knox Chairman, Bruce Johnston, running of the Company.
While the Chief Executive and his team Christopher Masters and Gavin Suggett.
The committee which are responsible for operational matters generally, there are some considered the appointment of a new chairman comprised issues which are specifically reserved for decision of the board William Berry Chairman, William Jack, Christopher Masters and as a whole, whether or not they are operational.
This may be because of their strategic importance such as borrowings or Gavin Suggett.
commencing a new business, their significance such as Both of these committees determined the process which was changes in the Companys management structure, or their followed for each nomination and each process was tailored reputational sensitivity such as litigation.
according to the appointment under consideration.
The executive directors were invited to give their views to the Nomination Audit Committee Committee and the decision on the appointment of any proposed director or of a Chairman of the board was made by the board as Please refer to page 33. a whole, taking into account the reports and recommendations made to it by the relevant Nomination Committee.
Risk Review Committee Please refer to page 33.
Information and Professional Development All directors receive a formal induction in the affairs and Remuneration Committee business of the Company, which may include, where appropriate, The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the meeting both with major institutional stockholders and private board, the remuneration of the executive directors and makes stockholders.
Training and professional development courses are recommendations to the board on the framework of executive also made available as required.
The Committee members are The Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, timely Christopher Masters Chairman since October 2003, William Berry and clear information for board meetings and, with the Chairman until October 2003, William Jack and since July 2004 Company Secretary, that good information flows are maintained Gordon McQueen.
Lesley Knox was a member until April 2004. between the management and the board.
For more detail on the remuneration of directors and the role of the Remuneration Committee, please refer to the Directors Independence of Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39.
The board has carefully considered the guidance on independence of non-executive directors including the principle that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
Independence 31 Gordon McQueen will stand for election, this being the first Executive Committee AGM since their respective appointments.
Lesley Knox, Sheila An executive committee, appointed by the Chief Executive, Ruckley and William Jack will retire by rotation and stand for considers and assists in the more significant day-to-day matters re-election.
concerning the running of the Company.
The committee Alan Harden and Sheila Ruckley have contracts of service with comprises all the executive directors plus the Company which are terminable by the Company on one Kevin Dann ATS Managing Director years notice.
Lesley Knox, William Jack and Gordon McQueen do Ian Goddard Company Secretary not have service contracts.
Grant Lindsay Head of Equities Biographical details of all directors are on page 35.
Rowland Strickland Chief Operating Officer Stockholders are referred to the Notice of the AGM, which is a separate document from this report and which gives more Material Interests information about the directors to be re-elected.
The notice During the year, no director had any material interest in any also includes a proposal for the Company to be given power to contract, being a contract of significance, with the Company or take out liability insurance for directors and officers, which is its subsidiary company or was connected to any adviser or not presently permitted.
supplier who had such an interest.
Directors Stockholdings Re-election of Directors All directors must hold at least 200 ordinary stock units and All appointments to the board are subject to approval by the newly appointed directors have two months from appointment stockholders at the next Annual General Meeting AGM to satisfy this condition.
Details of all directors holdings are following the appointment.
Additional to the requirements of shown in the table below.
the Articles of Association, the board has resolved that all No director has any interest in the Companys preference directors subject themselves to re-election by the stockholders stocks or debenture stock.
No director, nor any member of any at least every three years.
directors immediate family, has been granted options to At the AGM on 29 October 2004, a resolution incorporating this subscribe for stock or debentures in the Company, or in any principle into the Articles of Association will be put to the subsidiary company.
At this meeting, Alan Harden and Acquired between 31 July 2004 and As at 1 August 2003 As at 31 July 2004 17 September 2004 Directors Interests NonNonNonordinary stock units of 25p Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Lesley Knox Chairman 330 - 487 - 14 - Alan Harden 86 - 691 - 46 - William Berry 516 - 526 - -- David Deards 1,294 - 1,671 - 27 - William Jack 1,000 - 1,000 - -- Gordon McQueen - - 200 - -- Christopher Masters 531 - 541 - -- Sheila Ruckley 2,117 - 2,509 - 61 - Alan Young 1,542 - 1,583 - -- At date of appointment.
Acquisition of stock between 31 July 2004 and 17 September 2004 has been pursuant to standing instructions through plans provided by ATS.
32 Corporate Governance Report Relationships with Stockholders Political and Charitable Donations It is the boards collective responsibility to ensure that a We do not make political or charitable donations.
meaningful dialogue is maintained with stockholders.
Corporate Social Responsibility As well as meetings with institutional stockholders, which are largely conducted by the Chairman, Chief Executive and the In carrying out our activities and in our relationships with our Finance Director, the executive directors meet with private employees, suppliers and community, we aim to conduct stockholders at investor seminars which are held throughout ourselves responsibly, ethically and fairly and in a manner the UK.
It is also customary for the Chairman or one or more of which we ourselves would like to be treated.
the other non-executive directors to attend these seminars.
Payment of Creditors The Investor Relations programme also includes meetings with stockbrokers and investment analysts.
We always try to achieve favourable terms when buying supplies.
Contracts and payment terms are carefully scrutinised The AGM is a forum for all those who hold stock in the Company and we pay in accordance with the contract which is agreed, and we encourage attendance and participation by all stockholders, which may be the suppliers own terms.
Investment purchases including those who hold their stock through nominees.
are settled in accordance with the terms of the exchanges on All beneficial owners of stock through ATS are given the which the investments are listed.
The Company has not adopted opportunity, using a letter of direction, and at no charge, to any code or standard on payment practice.
instruct a proxy vote to be cast for them.
Whilst company law The Company anticipates no change in its purchasing practices does not provide for such beneficial owners to vote on a show in the current financial year.
of hands, those attending the AGM are given a courtesy show of hands vote at the meeting, in order that the directors can be At 31 July 2004 the Company had no trade creditors.
made aware of how they would vote on a show of hands, if so allowed by company law.
Green Disclosures We are required to report to you which stockholders have told In carrying out our activities over the last year, our UK us that they own more than 3% of our ordinary and preference greenhouse gas emissions by reason of the Companys activities stocks.
The table below shows who has notified us of a holding office heat and power requirements and employee travel, of 3% or more.
If the stock is in a nominee for beneficial calculated in accordance with reporting guidelines issued by the owners who retain voting rights, the holding must be notified Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions, amounted to the Company when it amounts to 10% of the ordinary stock.
to 45.3 39.8 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of operating 4.0 3.5 three bar electric fires for a year.
The table also states the percentage of stock held by the nominee for the ATS customers who retain voting rights.
We are often asked whether the investment managers take environmental factors into consideration when making Ordinary stock units investments.
Information is given on page 9. notified as at 15 September 2004 The Alliance Trust PLC and subsidiaries 4,807,526 25.0% Voting D C Thomson & Co Limited 1,903,428 9.9% It is the Company's policy to exercise, wherever practical, its The Standard Life Assurance Company 1,069,567 5.6% vote at meetings of companies in which it owns shares.
Any Legal & General Investment 595,140 3.1% proposal to vote against the recommendations of the board of Preference stock units the company in which the shares are held requires the approval notified as at of an executive director.
Decisions to vote against such 15 September 2004 recommendations are reported to the board.
More information is The Alliance Trust PLC 351,936 44.0% given on page 9, together with information on social Aboyne-Clyde Rubber Estates of Ceylon PLC 100,000 12.5% responsibility in the context of investment decisions.
Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC 80,592 10.1% Peter S Allen & Judith M Allen 65,363 8.2% Jennifer Claire Allen 56,505 7.1% The Investment Company PLC 29,356 3.7% This stock is held by ATS for its customers in PEPs, ISAs and Investment Plans and as trustee of the Select Pension.
33 The committee members are William Jack Chairman, William Accountability and Audit Berry and Christopher Masters.
Lesley Knox was a member until April 2004.
Directors Responsibility for the Accounts The directors are required by law to prepare financial Risk Management statements which give a true and fair view of the state of It is the responsibility of the board to understand the nature affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of and extent of the risks which are inherent in carrying out the the revenue and cash flows for the year.
In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring that The board determines an acceptable level of risk in each risk adequate accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding category identified as being relevant to the activities of the the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for Company, as well as the probability of the risks concerned the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
materialising and their potential impact.
A process is put in place to evaluate and manage risks within a framework which The Company has, in the opinion of the directors, adequate takes into account the costs of operating particular controls resources to continue operation as a going concern for the relative to the benefit obtained.
This process is a continuum foreseeable future, and the financial statements of the Company and therefore the balance between risk and return is managed for the year ended 31 July 2004 have been prepared on in a prudent manner, which does not compromise compliance that basis.
with statute and regulatory provision or adherence to good The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, business management.
Central to the risk management consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent framework is embedding an understanding of risk and ensuring judgements and estimates, have been used in their preparation that staff take responsibility for the management of risk in the and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
areas for which they are responsible.
In January 2004, the board charged one of the executive Audit Committee directors, Sheila Ruckley, with responsibility for risk The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing and reporting to management.
Consequent to that appointment, an executive the board on: Risk Management Committee has been established to ensure effective risk management across the business and to oversee The annual and interim financial statements and the risk identification, management and control.
This committee accounts, together with the content and form of proposed reports to the Chief Executive.
In addition, a non-executive Risk announcements and reports relating to the Company's Review Committee has been formed see below.
financial performance Compliance with banking and financial services legislation Risk Review Committee The integrity and effectiveness of accounting and financial The Risk Review Committee is a new committee of the board.
Its controls and the system of internal control, including the duties include reviewing the framework and procedures which are process for assessing and managing risk.
in place for controlling, monitoring and managing risks.
It will The Committee has a specific function to review the scope and consider whether the risk management framework is dynamic with effectiveness of the audits which are carried out by the external respect to both external and internal factors.
The Committee may and internal auditors.
It reviews the independence and objectivity commission reports and explanations from management and third of the external auditors, supervises the function of the internal parties where it considers risks are not being properly identified or audit and facilitates the work of both the external and internal managed, and it may agree appropriate action plans and monitor auditors.
During the year, the Committee put the external audit progress against them.
It will also review the minutes of the Risk out to tender and considered detailed proposals from three Management Committee meetings.
The Risk Review Committee leading firms prior to an interview process.
The result of the members are Gordon McQueen Chairman, Lesley Knox and tender process was that the Committee considers that the Christopher Masters.
stockholders best interests will be served by the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor.
The Audit Committee is also the forum where any member of staff may, in confidence, raise matters of concern about possible improprieties in matters such as financial reporting, and it has the power to investigate any matters raised.
34 Corporate Governance Report The Company does not seek to enhance returns by engaging in Internal Control trading activity itself, although it invests in companies that A robust system of internal control fits into the framework of trade.
The Company may borrow and may make use of financial risk management.
The board confirms that procedures which instruments and derivatives in order to enhance returns or to accord with the guidance published in 1999 the Turnbull mitigate risks.
Borrowing, financial instruments and derivatives guidance for compliance with principle D of the Combined Code carry their own risks, which must be managed effectively.
internal control have been in place for the year under review During the last financial year, except for our long term and continue to be in place.
debentures, we did not borrow or use any financial instruments These procedures include a review by the board, on at least an or derivatives.
annual basis, of the scope and effectiveness of the system for internal control.
This includes the consideration of financial, operational and compliance controls as well as of significant Compliance with the Code business risks and any changes in the nature and extent of those risks since the last review.
of Best Practice No system of internal control can give an absolute assurance Pages 28 to 35 of this report, together with the Directors against misstatement or loss.
It should prevent or detect areas Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39, disclose the of shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through application by the Company of the Combined Code on Corporate incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
Governance, as required by the UK Listing Authority.
The main control mechanisms in place include: The Combined Code which applies to the Company for the Separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on reporting year to 31 July 2004 is now defined by the UK Listing the board Authority as the Hampel Code.
Strong non-executive directors and a robust Audit Committee The board reports that it has complied with the Hampel Code except in two matters: Clear departmental structures, backed up by inter-departmental support functions In the year to 31 July 2004, performance related pay did not form a substantial part of the executive directors remuneration.
Clear authorisation limits This is explained in the Directors Remuneration Report on Segregation of duties page 37.
A rolling internal audit and compliance monitoring For part of the year there was no standing Nomination programme.
As explained on page 30, two appointments were considered for which separate Nomination Committees were Investment Risk and Financial Instruments appointed.
The membership of each committee was tailored to Risk is inherent in all forms of investment which aim to give a the post in question so that the most relevant board experience financial return.
We seek to manage this risk primarily through was brought to bear.
a judicious choice of investments diversified across different In July 2003, revisions to the Hampel Code were announced by business sectors and economies.
Notwithstanding the UK Listing Authority.
The revised Code, defined as the diversification, in the short term the aggregate valuation of 2003 FRC Code applies for reporting periods which commence these investments is subject to considerable fluctuation in on or after 1 November 2003.
Accordingly the board will report response to changes in, for example, inflation, interest rates, on its compliance with the 2003 FRC Code in its report for the currencies and market sentiment.
Cumulative effects of dividend year ended 31 July 2005. income and its reinvestment, along with long term growth can compensate for short term fluctuations in capital value.
By order of the board Ian Goddard, Company Secretary Dundee, 20 September 2004 35 Directors Lesley M S Knox MA Chairman 50 Joined the board 2001: appointed Chairman 2004: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Lesley Knox pictured centre qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and US advising companies on a range of commercial matters.
Subsequently she worked as a corporate finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where in 1996 she became a director, and then as a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
She was also Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment services to clients worldwide.
Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Company PLC and MFI Furniture Company PLC.
Non-Executive Directors From left to right Executive Directors From left to right William Berry MA LLB WS 64 Alan J Harden 46 Joined the board 1994: Senior Independent Director Joined the Company 2003: Chief Executive 2004 William Berry is a solicitor and the former chairman of Murray Beith Alan Harden started his career in the investment industry in 1978 with Murray, an Edinburgh law firm which has an important investment Abbey Life and JBI in the UK, Europe and Cyprus: before joining Wardley presence, managing and administering funds for many private clients.
He part of HSBC in 1984, running the asset management department in is Senior Governor of the University of St Andrews and was formerly Cyprus, before moving to Dubai UAE, and then to Hong Kong as senior chairman of Scottish Life Assurance Company.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore, Other directorships include Fleming Continental European Investment Trust responsible for activities and assets in South East Asia.
In 1994 he became PLC and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Global Head of Investment Services, leading Standard Chartered to become William H Jack 59 the largest fund distributor in Asia.
In 2000 he moved to Citigroup Asset Management, and from his base in Japan, was head of the asset Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the Audit Committee management business in the Asia Pacific region and a member of the William Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company in Global Executive Committee.
He joined the Company in November 2003 and 1973, and was the Managing Director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2004, the date on which he took with the responsibility for the UK life and unit trust business, from 1991 up the responsibilities of Chief Executive.
Other directorships include Skipton Company Holdings.
Alan M W Young MA LLB 58 Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC 57 Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at Christopher Masters took his doctorate in Chemistry at Leeds University and Gartmore as an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of worked for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then Shell Chemicals Gartmores pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development manager joining the Company he managed the UK and European portfolios before before becoming director of planning for its US operation and then Chief becoming Investment Director.
He was then appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He is Chairman of SMG Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 55 PLC and also chairs the Scottish Higher Education Funding Council and the Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 Festival City Theatres Trust.
Sheila Ruckley studied history and philosophy in the UK and US before Other directorships include British Assets Trust PLC and John Wood qualifying as a solicitor.
After joining the Company she became secretary Company PLC.
of the Company and compliance officer of ATS, before becoming responsible for the introduction of the Select Pension.
Initially appointed W Gordon McQueen BSc CA FCIBS 57 a director to develop the investor relations function within the Joined the board 2004: Chairman of the Risk Review Committee organisation, she was, in January 2004, appointed Director of Risk Management, retaining responsibility for investor relations.
Gordon McQueen graduated in Chemistry and trained as an equity portfolio fund manager before embarking on a banking career.
He is a former David A Deards BA ACA 44 Chairman and Chief Executive of HBOS Treasury Services PLC.
He is a former Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and served on the boards of Joined the Company and the board 2003 HBOS plc and Halifax plc as an executive director following their merger in David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered 2001 until the end of 2003.
He has experience in many areas of the accountant with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining financial services business, particularly in international banking, corporate Ansbacher & Co, where he gained considerable experience in corporate and commercial banking, treasury and finance.
finance and banking and investment product development, and became a Other directorships include Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC where director of Ansbacher & Co in 1995.
He joined the Company as Finance he is a non-executive director and chairs the audit committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Risk Review Committee All are also Directors of The Alliance Trust PLC and Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
