Corporate Governance each director prior to any recommendation being Combined Code made by the Committee to the full Board: and The objective of the Board is to ensure that the Group is run in such a way as to maximise value for Mr Hodson was employed on a rolling service shareholders.
Set out below is a summary of how the contract which was subject to two years notice by Board does this, and how it complies with the either party.
In May 2004 Mr Hodson reached his Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting 58th birthday and as the Companys normal Council in July 2003 the Code.
retirement age is 60, the term of his contract reduced on a daily basis from that date.
Mr Hodson The Board is committed to maintaining high standards took early retirement from the Company and left of corporate governance throughout the Group.
The the Company on 31 December 2004.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require UK listed companies to report on the manner The Board in which they apply the principles of Good Governance and the extent to which they comply with the The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that Provisions set out in the Code.
the Group is properly led and controlled, and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board approves the Statement of Compliance Group strategy and monitors its performance.
During the year, the Board implemented a review of its policies in the area of corporate governance and as In addition to ongoing matters concerning the a result has improved its practices in a number of management of the Company and of the Group, the areas, including a number of changes to Board Board has determined certain items which are procedures: the terms of reference for its Board reserved for decision by itself.
These matters include committees and an evaluation process for the the acquisition and disposal of other than minor effectiveness of directors.
The Board will continue to businesses, the issue of capital by any Group review and take whatever steps it considers company and any transaction by a subsidiary company appropriate to reflect the Code provisions.
that cannot be made within its own resources, or that is not in the normal course of its business.
The Board considers that during the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company had complied with The Board meets regularly throughout the year the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except and during the year the Board met formally on 10 for the following: occasions.
the recommendation that the Remuneration Board Membership Committee should comprise only independent nonThe Board comprises the non-executive Chairman, the executive directors.
The Board does not accept this Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and Chief recommendation for the Company as it considers Operating Officer, and the non-executive directors.
The that Mr Selway-Swift, as Chairman, should biographies of the directors appear on page 4 and 5. participate in any decisions concerning remuneration due to his experience and the fact As at 1 January 2004, the executive directors were that encompassed in his role is the supervision of Mr Hodson who was the Chief Executive and the Board: Mr Shearer, the Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer.
the recommendation that the Nomination Committee should comprise of a majority of Mr Hodson retired as a director of the Company on independent non-executive directors.
The 31 December 2004 and Mr Shearer was appointed as membership of the Committee consists of the the Chief Executive of the Company with effect from Chairman, the senior independent non-executive 1 January 2005.
Also with effect from this date director and one executive director.
The Board Mr Jones was appointed as the Group Finance believes that the Committee comprises the correct Director and Chief Operating Officer.
balance of independence together with detailed day to day knowledge of the Group to carry out the Mr Austen was appointed as an independent nonduties of the Committee.
Also all issues executive director and Mr Spence was appointed as surrounding the Nomination Committee, in an executive director of the Group on 11 March 2005. particular changes to the Board are discussed with 22 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance meet its strategic objectives: reviewing management Board Roles performance: and contributing to setting the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are Companys values and standards to ensure its distinct and separate.
The division of responsibilities obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met.
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The independent directors are of sufficient calibre that their views carry significant weight in the Boards Chairman decision making process.
The Board considers all the The Chairman of the Company is Mr Selway-Swift.
non-executive directors to be independent in character As Chairman, he is responsible for leadership of the and judgement.
Board and ensuring the effective running and management of the Board and the Group.
The The non-executive directors meet at least once a year Chairmans principal responsibilities include: without the presence of any executive directors.
ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting Senior Independent Director takes account of the issues and concerns of each Sir Brandon Gough is the senior independent nonBoard member, and that members of the Board executive director.
Sir Brandon is available to meet receive accurate, timely and clear information on shareholders on request and ensures that the Board is the Company and related matters to enable them to aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through monitor the Companys performance and take the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
sound decisions: ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and The Company Secretary constructive part in Board meetings, including the The directors have access to the advice and services development and determination of the Groups of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the strategy: Board for ensuring that, through the Chairman, ensuring that the composition of the Board is procedures are followed and that applicable rules, appropriate, that each member contributes, and that regulations and governance matters are complied there is a clear succession process for new and with.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to retiring members: and obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The schedule of matters being the guardian of the Boards decision making reserved for the Board provides that the appointment processes.
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for Chief Executive the full Board.
During 2004 the Chief Executive of the Company was Mr Hodson.
As Chief Executive, his principal Board Information responsibilities included: The Board is satisfied that it is supplied with all the information that it requires and requests, in a form to developing and implementing the Group strategy as enable it to discharge its duties.
Reports and papers set by the Board: are circulated to the directors in a timely manner in providing strategic vision and executive leadership preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These of the business: and papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the directors from time to time.
the effective running of the business and the management of the senior executives.
The non-executive directors also receive monthly management accounts, monthly business reports on Mr Shearer was appointed as the Chief Executive on each division and regular management reports, 1 January 2005, and has therefore taken on these including a report on the risks interpreted by responsibilities.
management and how those risks are being managed Non-executive directors and independence which enables them to scrutinise the Groups and During 2004 the Board included Sir Brandon Gough, managements performance against agreed objectives.
Mr Bernays and Dr Rutherford, as independent nonThe non-executive directors also receive regular executive directors.
They constructively challenge presentations from the Head of the Business Divisions.
proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards Re-election of Directors deliberations.
They are also responsible for providing At each Annual General Meeting, one third of the entrepreneurial leadership and promoting the highest directors retire and offer themselves for re-election, standards of governance within a framework of and each director must stand for re-election at least prudent and effective controls: establishing whether once every three years.
Subject to the Companys the Company has in place the necessary resources to Corporate Governance Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 23 Articles of Association and a satisfactory performance of questionnaires covering the operation of the Board evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for and its committees: Board structure: Board objectives: an initial period of three years.
Any non-executive Board administration: compliance with its corporate directors who have served for more than nine years governance obligations, and the operation and content will also stand for annual re-election.
The proposed of its meetings.
Each Board member was asked to re-election of directors is subject to prior review by complete the questionnaire and to add detailed the Board.
The feedback was analysed on a strictly confidential basis by the The names of the directors standing for re-election at independent advisor with the assistance of the the 2005 Annual General Meeting are contained Company Secretary.
A full report on the Board within the separate notice of Annual General Meeting evaluation was submitted to the Chairman.
The that accompanies this report, and further information Chairman considered that as the report was designed is given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders in to assist the Board in further improving its relation to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
performance it should be discussed by the full Board as a whole.
The full Board has reviewed the report, Professional Development and specific actions resulting from the evaluation have On appointment, directors take part in an induction been or are currently being implemented.
programme when they receive information about the The Chairman also led a review of the individual Group: the role of the Board and the matters reserved performance of each of the directors other than for its decision: the terms of reference and himself.
The review covered the effectiveness of membership of the principal Board committees, and each directors contribution and commitment to the the powers delegated to those committees: the Company.
Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: and the latest financial information about Sir Brandon Gough, the senior independent nonthe Group.
This is supplemented by meetings with the executive director, undertook a performance Heads of the Business Divisions and other key senior evaluation of the Chairman taking into account the executives.
Directors are also advised on appointment views of the executive and non-executive directors.
of their legal duties and obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face Relations with Shareholders meetings with the Company Secretary.
The Group has frequent discussions with institutional Throughout their period in office the directors are shareholders on a range of issues affecting its continually updated on the Groups business, the performance.
These include meetings following the competitive and regulatory environments in which it announcement of the annual and interim results with operates and other changes affecting the Group the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an including the industry it operates in, by written individual basis.
In addition, the Group responds to reports, meetings and presentations from senior individual ad hoc requests for discussions from executives.
Directors are reminded of their duties institutional shareholders.
All major shareholders are each year, and they are also updated on changes to given the opportunity to meet the Chairman, and new the legal and governance requirements of the Group, non-executive directors on appointment and upon themselves as directors.
Continuing Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to professional development is offered to all directors.
their shareholding and the business of the Group.
Furthermore, the Board welcomes the attendance of Performance Evaluation all shareholders at the AGM, in particular by private The Board has established a formal process, led by shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged to submit the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the their questions in writing in advance of the AGM so performance of the Board, its principal Committees that a considered response can be given.
The and individual directors, with particular attention to Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination those who are due for re-appointment.
The directors Committees are available at the AGM to answer are made aware that their performance will be subject questions.
Each matter to be voted on at the meeting to an evaluation on appointment.
is proposed as a separate resolution.
The Board undertook an evaluation of its performance The Company aims to present a balanced and including that of its committees with the assistance understandable assessment in all its reports to of an independent advisor Equity Culture Limited.
An shareholders, its regulators and the wider public.
Key evaluation pack was designed with assistance from announcements and other information can be found the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the at www.
This pack consisted of a series 24 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and individual attendance by members is shown below: Non-executive directors meeting without management Board Audit Remuneration Nomination present Total number of meetings in 2004 105553 Number of meetings attended in 2004 P Selway-Swift 10 5 5 3 J Hodson 9 2 R O Bernays 9 5 5 3 Sir Brandon Gough 10 5 5 3 Dr S Rutherford 10 5 5 3 A P Shearer 9 2 The Audit Committee Chairman invites the Chairman, Board Committees Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, Operating Officer, Head of Finance, Head of Internal the Board has established a number of committees Audit, Head of Compliance and senior representatives with particular responsibility.
The terms of reference of the external auditors to attend its meetings in full or of each Board committee outlining the authority and in part.
Other senior management are invited to duties of each committee are reviewed and approved present such reports as are required for the Audit annually by the Board.
Copies of the terms of Committee to discharge its duties.
reference are available from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference of each of the Board Activities undertaken by the Audit Committee to committees provides the opportunity for individual discharge its duties members to take independent professional advice if In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit necessary, at the Companys expense.
Committee receives and challenges presentations and reports from the Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
Audit Committee Membership of the Committee Financial Reporting The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Brandon Gough During the year the Audit Committee assisted the and its members are himself, Mr Bernays and Group Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to Dr Rutherford.
All the members of the Committee are the external financial reporting and associated independent non-executive directors.
The Committee reviewed the interim reference are in line with those recommended by the and annual financial statements, together with the Code.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the Stock Exchange announcements, having received outcome of meetings to the Board, and the Board information on the accounting principles: policies and receives the minutes of all the Audit Committee practices adopted in the Groups accounts: changes meetings.
proposed to those principles, policies and practices: significant accounting issues and the Groups Role of the Audit Committee compliance with statutory tax obligations.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to Control Environment external financial reporting and associated The Audit Committee assisted the Group Board in announcements: the independence of the Groups fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the adequacy external auditors: the resourcing and plans of the and effectiveness of the control environment and the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments: the Groups compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: these duties, the Committee has reviewed: and the Groups compliance with the Code.
the Groups Risk Framework and risk policies: Meetings Group Compliance Reports on key issues affecting The Audit Committee is required to formally meet four the Group: times per year, and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
Corporate Governance Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 25 Group Risk Reports on key issues affecting the The Audit Committee also reviewed: Group: the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties Internal Audit Reports on key audit areas and and scope of the audit as set out in the external significant control environment deficiencies: auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: reports on the systems of internal controls and risk the external auditors overall work plan for the management: and forthcoming year: the external auditors annual and interim Internal the external auditors fee proposal: Control Report.
recommendations made by the external auditors on External Auditors and Auditors Independence the internal control environment: The Audit Committee is responsible for the the major issues that arose during the course of the development, implementation and monitoring of the audit and their resolution: and Groups policy on external audit.
the key accounting audit judgements.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services that the external Internal Audit Function auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Group Group.
In considering the provisions of non-audit Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the services the Audit Committee considers that work adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal that is: Audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the Audit Committee reviewed the Internal Audits terms of so closely related to the statutory audit for reference, reporting lines and access to the Audit example, related assurance work, which would Committee and all members of the Board, its plans and include FRAG 21 work, regulatory reports and tax its achievement of the planned activity.
The results of compliance work: or key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy such that a detailed understanding of the Group is of managements response and the timeliness of necessary for example, due diligence and tax resolution are reviewed by the Committee.
The advisory work and work relating to shareholder Committee also reviewed the level and nature of circulars: non-audit activity performed by Internal Audit.
that, where there is no conflict of interest, and if it is Remuneration Committee considered to be in the best interests of the Group it Membership of the Committee can be carried out by the external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee members are, Other than work as detailed, the prior approval of the Dr Rutherford, Mr Selway-Swift and Mr Bernays.
Committee is required to engage the external auditors Mr Selway-Swift chaired the Remuneration for any piece of work when the fee is in excess of Committee until he relinquished the position on 50,000 or which would bring the total fees for such 26 October 2004.
Dr Rutherford chaired the work for the year to more than 100,000.
Mr Selway-Swift, however, remains a member of the Committee.
To fulfil the Audit Committees responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit The Committee meets as required, and during the Committee reviewed the changes in key external audit year the Committee held five meetings.
staff in the external auditors plan for the current year: Role of the Remuneration Committee the arrangements for day-to-day management of the The principal duties of the Committee are to: audit relationship: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and determine and agree with the Board the framework manage any conflicts of interest: and the overall extent and broad policy for the remuneration of the of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
executive directors of the Company or such other members of the executive management team as it It is also recognised that auditors have an internal is designated to consider: control process that aims to eliminate conflict and ensure objectivity in dealing with clients.
The external within the terms of the agreed policy, determine on auditors are specifically excluded from undertaking behalf of the Board the total individual remuneration any assignment or work that would involve them package of each executive director including, where either in auditing or reviewing their own work or in appropriate, basic salaries, bonuses, incentive providing services that would require them to function payments and share options: and as part of the management of the business.
to review the remuneration structure of the executive team.
26 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance Activities undertaken by the Remuneration appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis Committee to discharge its duties in preparing financial statements.
The directors Details of the activities that have been undertaken by consider that the Group has adequate resources to the Remuneration Committee are included within the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 29 to 32. future.
For this reason, the directors consider that the business is a going concern and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Nomination Committee statements.
Membership of the Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr SelwayInternal Control and Financial Swift and its other members are Sir Brandon Gough Reporting and Mr Shearer.
During the year the Committee held five meetings.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control, and for reviewing its Mr Hodson was a member of the Committee until effectiveness.
The system of control is designed to 26 October 2004 when he relinquished this position manage, rather than eliminate, risks which are and Mr Shearer was appointed as a member of the inherent in the Groups business, and can provide only Committee in his place.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for identifying and The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Before risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in making an appointment, the Committee evaluates the place for the year under review, and up to the date of balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the approval of the Financial Statements.
The Board Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of description of the role and capabilities required for a internal control at its meeting on 9 March 2005.
review covered all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The Committee also makes recommendations to the management.
The Company complied with the Board on succession for executive directors and on Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the the re-appointment of any non-executive director at Combined Code the Turnbull guidance throughout the conclusion of their specified term of office.
Activities undertaken by the Nomination The following is a summary of the means by which Committee to discharge its duties the Board discharges its internal control During the year the Committee reviewed the responsibilities.
structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where During the year a committee of the Board known as appropriate, it made recommendations for changes to the Risk Review Committee reviewed, monitored and the Board.
Where appropriate the Committee uses ratified or approved all risks arising within the Group.
external advisors to facilitate searches for potential The Chief Executive of the Group or his nominated candidates, and a wide range of backgrounds are deputy, normally the Chief Operating Officer, chaired considered for appointment to the Board.
the normally monthly meeting of the Risk Review Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the The Committee also reviewed the succession ongoing assessment of the adequacy of controls planning in the course of its work, taking into account established to mitigate and monitor risk.
Risks include the challenges and opportunities facing the Group, credit, market, operational and reputational risks, new and the skills and expertise that are required on the business products and other issues including liquidity, Board for the future.
funding and the management of equity capital.
The A number of changes were recommended by the Committee, under the delegated authority of the Committee to the Board during the year including the Group Board, administers the delegation of all limit appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, and approval authorities throughout the Group.
following Mr Hodsons announcement that he would be The Board has adopted a set of Group risk policies taking early retirement, and the appointment of a new and standards, which are applied throughout the Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Office.
Compliance with these standards is monitored by the Group Risk and Group Internal Audit functions, Going Concern and deficiencies are reported to the Risk Review The Code requires directors to report, under the terms Committee.
Within this framework, management are set out in the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the responsible for the identification and evaluation of Corporate Governance Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 27 significant risks applicable to their areas of business, business.
There are established procedures and together with the design and operation of suitable information systems for regular budgeting and internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a reporting of financial information.
Financial reports are continual basis and may be associated with a variety presented to the Board monthly detailing the results of internal or external sources, including control and other performance data.
The Group Audit breakdowns, disruption in information systems, Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory Groups system of internal financial control.
In January 2005 a review of the Risk Management The Group risk policies also set out a process of Structure was undertaken.
Following the review the control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting Risk Management Committee replaced the Risk which provides for a documented and auditable trail of Review Committee with new terms of reference.
These procedures are relevant across A Group Credit Policy Committee and an Assets the Groups operations, and provide for successive and Liability Committee were established as assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of sub-Committees of the Risk Management Committee.
management and finally, to the Board.
This process is These committees have a Group wide remit covering facilitated by Group Risk and Group Internal Audit the management, credit and market risk, respectively.
who also provide a degree of assurance as to the The Risk Management Committee will oversee the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
activities of its sub-committees, review operational Planned corrective actions are monitored by Group risk and undertake in depth reviews of specific areas Internal Audit to ensure timely completion, with any of business and risk within the organisation.
It is overdue actions reported to the Group Board on a considered that, as well as increasing the monthly basis.
effectiveness of the risk management process, the group-wide nature of the newly formed committee The Board has an established Group Standards for together with a review of the existing committee Compliance the Standards.
The Standards seek structures will enhance the co-ordination of risk to apply uniformly high standards of integrity, fair reporting within the Group.
dealing and market conduct to companies throughout the Group.
All Group companies which are subject to International Financial Reporting Standards regulation are required to have proper management International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS controls to ensure that their business is conducted in came into effect on 1 January 2005.
The Groups first accordance with local regulatory requirements at all set of consolidated financial statements to be times.
The Groups compliance officers have reported under IFRS will be for the year ended responsibility for compliance with regulatory 31 December 2005. requirements.
The Standards require that the board of The Group has reviewed the requirement of IFRS and each regulated company is provided with a report on has compared such requirement to the current UK compliance issues at least every quarter, and a accounting requirement UK GAAP.
Having summary of these reports is considered by the Group completed this review, the Group has identified the Audit Committee.
In addition, there is a requirement main areas of difference and the likely impact on for the immediate reporting of certain key events to future results.
These were detailed in the Interim both the local board, and centrally to the Group.
Report for 2004 in the Chief Executives Review of There is a well established internal audit function Activities.
Whilst there are several differences within the Group.
The internal audit functions role is between the Companys current accounting policies to provide independent assurance over the effective and IFRS, these are largely technical and have no operations of the Groups system of internal controls, effect on the underlying economics of the businesses designed to minimise the risks to which the Group is although implementation may have a significant faced.
A risk based audit programme is agreed impact on the presentation of the Groups results on annually in advance with the Group Audit Committee, the taxation charge and on regulating capital.
and the Head of Internal Audit attends each meeting We expect to provide more information on the likely of the Committee to present a summary of the audit financial impact, when we report the results for the reports completed during the period, and to provide six month period ended 30 June 2005. any explanations required by the Committee.
Additionally, the Head of Internal Audit has unfettered access to all members of the Audit Committee at By order of the Board all times.
Stephen Doherty Company Secretary The Groups system of internal financial control 11 March 2005 includes appropriate levels of authorisation, segregation of duties and limits for each aspect of the 28 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance
