Corporate Governance Report General principles Directors The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate The Board governance.
During the year to 31 December 2004, the Company The Company is led by a Board comprising three Executive and five complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout 2004, the Chairman and the Code on Corporate Governance July 2003, as detailed below and in Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Board and the Remuneration Report.
this continues to be the case.
With the exception of the Chairman, who previously was Group Chief Executive, each of the Non-Executive Ethics and business integrity policy Directors is considered to be independent of management.
They each Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity have wide areas of experience and have no business or other and ethics which underlies the Groups values of openness, relationship that could materially interfere with their independent collaboration, mutual dependency, professional delivery, focus on judgement.
Philip Rogerson is the Deputy Chairman and Roger sustainable, profitable growth and innovation.
The policy requires Dickens the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Carillion to conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
It applies to all employees and the way Carillion delivers this policy is and In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors will be reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
the quality and value of its work and the reputation of its employees.
A detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate governance The requirements of the policy in summary are: procedures and compliance was again conducted in 2004 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The internal business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes.
We do not evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or gifts-in-kind.
i the role of directors, ii the performance of the Board, the Chairman We will investigate fully all alleged breaches.
We will dismiss any and the Non-Executive Directors, iii Directors remuneration, employee who has breached this policy: iv relations with shareholders and v Board accountability and audit.
mutual respect: we do what we say we will do.
We treat our people The Board at its meeting in October 2004 reviewed the results of the fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding discrimination and internal evaluation and, where required, issues were acted upon in bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy working environment, order to further enhance the effectiveness of the Boards procedures and respect sustainable principles in all our dealings: and working practices.
trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
We respect the trust This is the third year that this process has taken place and will placed in us by others, not least when we are asked to take be repeated annually as it is considered satisfactory by the Board.
responsibility for aspects of their business or resources.
We maintain In addition, reviews of the performance of each of the Directors and demand high professional standards and demand honesty and has taken place.
We avoid conflicts of interest wherever possible, and we proactively declare any unavoidable conflicts for open scrutiny and The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the resolution: Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
We clearly the following parameters: communicate procedures for disciplining those who do not comply with the law or our standards and policies.
We maintain a system for the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide confidential reporting of breaches of our standards and policies: continuity, experience and governance while the Chief Executive human rights: we support the belief that human rights are universal provides leadership, energy, imagination and the driving force: and adhere to the principles of human rights in our operations.
We the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the support the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of their respective roles Our policy is carried into our business through a series of detailed encourages the Chairman and Chief Executive to work well together procedures and allows us to put into practice our reputation for to provide effective and complementary stewardship: conducting business to the highest ethical standard which is essential the Chairman must: to our relationships with customers, business partners, employees, take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of shareholders and the public.
the Board: consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
24 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability Section 05 the Chief Executive must: The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the activities: appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 30 to 37. shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the Audit Committee agreed strategy: Roger Dickens, Chairman ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management David Garman and control mechanisms.
Andrew Parrish The Board has a programme of seven meetings during the year and This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
For further information see the Report of the Audit matters reserved to the Board for consideration and decision is Committee on page 26. maintained.
These matters include: Nominations Committee statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim Sir Neville Simms, Chairman financial statements and the recommendation of dividends: Roger Dickens appointments to and removals from the Board and the terms David Garman of reference and membership of Board committees: Andrew Parrish approval of Group strategy and annual budgets: Philip Rogerson approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies: authorisation for any acquisition or disposal: The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Neville Simms, also review of the internal control arrangements and risk comprises all Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are management strategies: independent.
It reviews the structure, size, composition, balance review of corporate governance arrangements.
of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning to to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and regulations are observed.
The Board decides the appointment and and senior appointments.
removal of the Company Secretary.
Jean-Paul Parayre served on the Remuneration, Audit and Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent Nominations Committees during the year under review until he stood professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
down as a Director on 7 December 2004.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Attendance at meetings in 2004 The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the attended by each Director during 2004 was as follows: Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, Audit Remuneration Nominations markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Board Committees meetings held 7 3 3 3 The principal Board committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The Company Sir Neville Simms 7 3 Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
The terms of Roger Dickens 6 3 3 3 reference of each of the Board committees are available on the David Garman 3 1 1 Carillion website at www.
com or on request from the Chris Girling 7 Company Secretary.
John McDonough 7 Jean-Paul Parayre 6 1 2 3 The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: Andrew Parrish 7 3 3 3 Remuneration Committee Roger Robinson 7 Andrew Parrish, Chairman Philip Rogerson 2 Roger Dickens Appointed 7 September and 1 October 2004 respectively.
David Garman 25 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05 Corporate Governance Report continued Other Board matters The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and Policy on external appointments conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at the permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited Annual General Meeting.
number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
John McDonough and Chris Girling have such Induction and development of Directors appointments as Non-Executive Directors of Exel plc and Barlow Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on Group Limited respectively.
joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all Nomination and remuneration of Directors new Directors receive induction on their appointment covering The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board such matters as the operation and activities of the Group, the role as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
of the Board and the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external advisors, where For the Board appointments made in 2004, the Nominations appropriate, on changes to legislation, regulation or market practice, Committee used the services of executive recruitment consultants, as well as receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
Details of potential candidates were provided by Odgers Ray & Berndtson and initially reviewed by a At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in October sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with 2004, the Directors visited the Groups operations in Dubai.
Directors selected candidates were then held with Directors.
Subsequently, are also encouraged to visit other operations and staff.
the Nominations Committee met to recommend appointments which were then approved by the Board.
The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the Company In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
normally for three years: reappointment is subject to review and is not automatic.
At the AGM 2004, Sir Neville Simms announced his Relations with shareholders intention to stand down both as Chairman and as a Director of the In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time Company by the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Communications meet regularly with representatives of major The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation The details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the and the Deputy Chairman are available for meetings with business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the representatives of major shareholders as required.
policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Companys Annual General Meeting.
Directors is based on independent external advice.
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Report on pages 30 to 37.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on Retirement of Directors by rotation 11 May 2005 to respond to shareholders questions.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Director retiring and seeking re-election at the Accountability and audit Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2005 is Chris Girling.
Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at Directors: the first opportunity following their appointment.
Accordingly, David Garman and Philip Rogerson will seek election at the 2005 Annual Roger Dickens, Chairman General Meeting.
David Garman Andrew Parrish 26 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05 Roger Dickens is a chartered accountant who is Chairman of West Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to Bromwich Building Society and who formerly served on the Audit 31 December 2004 Committee of Tarmac plc.
Roger was appointed to the Audit Financial statements Committee in May 2000.
The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
In this context, the David Garman is Chief Executive of TDG plc and was appointed to the Committee also reviews the written reports of KPMG on issues arising Audit Committee in October 2004. from the annual audit and the review of the interim results.
Andrew Parrish is a member of the CBIs Manufacturing Council, is Internal controls Chairman of the National Stud and was previously Chief Executive The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal of Senior plc.
Andrew was appointed to the Audit Committee in control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control March 2000. environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the external Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk and the Head of confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it requires from time to and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial time.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the Group internal auditors.
including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
the review of the annual and interim financial statements: consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across and the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group: the Group is provided through a mix of techniques: compliance with statutory and other external requirements: reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results of Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and its audit work and the response of management: effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its business and reports its findings to management, the Executive cost-effectiveness: Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented to ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are and approved by the Audit Committee annually: complementary: recommendations to improve the system of control are made by monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is and ensuring that the services provided including non-audit services followed up and reported on quarterly: provide a proper balance between objectivity and value for money: Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification recommending to the Board the external auditors to be proposed to procedures and control processes implemented by management: shareholders for appointment.
a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any necessary controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also information to fulfil its duties ii call any member of staff to be confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively: iii obtain external professional advice, at the Companys expense, Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties.
internal controls in key business projects and on policy and procedure changes.
The members of the Committee receive fees for their Non-Executive Directorships which reflect their membership of the Audit Committee and other Board committees.
27 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures that significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It also ensures design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
The Audit risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee members.
disruption in information systems, competition, corporate social responsibility, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
During 2004, an internal appraisal of Internal Audit was carried out to Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of ensure that it continues to meet the needs of its stakeholders and fulfil business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies its governance role.
This exercise involved extensive consultation set by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance review across the Carillion Group.
As a result, minor amendments to the meetings are held where management reports to the Executive resourcing and processes of Internal Audit are being implemented.
Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
Risk management The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
The Group Head of the business and the external environment that affect significant Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee see below.
information, which includes key performance indicators see the This appraisal ensures that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 21 and a summary of have been properly identified so maximising the opportunities available: risk.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by with the project have been properly identified and considered.
In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals from This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis to assess the strategic risks facing the Carillion Group.
The conclusions of the Risk Audit independence Forum are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG, in their reporting to The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the shareholders.
sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has delegated authority Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating up to specified levels, beyond which Board approval is required.
Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to the guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditors, the Board operates a policy of prosecuting individuals found to have without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for on any judgmental areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory management are identified and action plans implemented to minimise to date.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistleblowing hotline Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local provided by an independent third party is available.
KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards.
The current audit director responsible for the Carillion engagement has held his role for five years following the last rotation: this will change shortly.
There is also rotation of key members within the audit team.
28 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05 Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
In summary, the procedures are: audit related services: as auditors this is the main area of work of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support is required then this is considered competitively: tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively: general and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects are subject to competitive tender.
Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Health and safety A review of the Groups progress on health and safety, environmental and social performance is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility section on pages 20 to 21.
R F Tapp Secretary 9 March 2005 29 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05
