CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to achieving high The process to achieve compliance with provision A.
3.2 standards of corporate governance and to maintaining has already commenced following the announcement of high levels of integrity and ethical standards in all of the resignation of Viscount Weir and Anthony Loehnis its business dealings.
with effect from the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2005, to be replaced subject to shareholder approval by Corporate Governance Simon Gulliford, further details of whom can be found on The Company has a policy of seeking to comply with page 24.
Further changes to the Board will be made over established best practice in the field of corporate the next year.
In addition, HBOS has confirmed that it will governance.
This report explains the approach the reduce the number of non-executive Directors it appoints Company has taken to apply the principles and provisions to the Board, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, set out in the revised Combined Code.
from three to two, should this be required in order to secure compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the revised During 2003 and 2004 the Board carried out a review Combined Code by the Annual General Meeting in 2006. of the Groups corporate governance policies following publication by the Financial Reporting Council of the In relation to provision C. 3.1, the Audit Committee revised Combined Code on corporate governance in July includes one non-independent non-executive Director 2003.
The Board considers that the Company has complied Phil Hodkinson as an appointee of HBOS plc in throughout the financial period ending 31 December accordance with the Relationship Agreement.
The Board 2004 with the provisions of the revised Combined Code believes that Mr Hodkinson makes a considerable on corporate governance, except in relation to provision contribution to the work of the Audit Committee, A.
3.2 that at least half the Board comprises non-executive particularly given his life assurance and actuarial experience.
Directors determined by the Board to be independent, provision C. 3.1 that the Audit Committee should wholly The appointment of Mike Wilson as Chairman of comprise independent non-executive Directors and the Board on 1 September 2004 was made following provision A.
2.2 regarding Mike Wilsons appointment as consultation with major shareholders.
Generally, major Chairman on 1 September 2004. shareholders, like the Board, were firmly of the view that it was highly beneficial to the Group for Mike Wilson to The Company currently complies with the provisions of become Chairman on Mark Lund being appointed Chief the previous Combined Code that at least a majority of the Executive, given the need for continuity following non-executive Directors are independent.
However, the the resignation of the co-founder of the Group Board intends to comply with provision A.
3.2 of Sir Mark Weinberg, his industry experience and his the revised Combined Code that at least half the Board close relationships with members of the St. Jamess comprises independent non-executive Directors by the Place Partnership.
Annual General Meeting in 2006, notwithstanding the difficulties of doing so given the right of HBOS plc, under The Board the Relationship Agreement referred to on pages 32 to 33, The Company applies the provisions of the Combined to appoint three Directors to the Board.
Code through the Board and its Committees, which meet regularly and have ready access to all relevant information required to enable effective decision making.
27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued With effect from 2005 the Board will meet six times a In addition, a Board Control Manual sets out the primary year, with additional meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group as required.
During 2004 there were four Board Meetings and defines the terms of reference of the Committees set at which all Directors were present with the exception of out below and the Groups risk policies.
It also contains the following: the detailed job descriptions of the Directors showing their individual responsibilities.
The Board Control Meeting Apologies Manual is reviewed by the Board annually.
July 2004 Ian Gascoigne AnthonyLoehnis The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing Viscount Weir the accounts is set out on page 33 and the statement from the auditor on its reporting responsibilities Board members are given appropriate documentation in is on pages 49 to 50.
The statement on going concern can advance of each Board meeting.
This will normally include be found on page 33. detailed reports on current trading, operational issues including compliance and risk issues, as well as papers The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive from the Finance Director on accounting and financial The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of matters.
The Board also receives reports from the the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Chief Executive, Mark Chairmen of the various Committees of the Board.
Lund, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman, Mike The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Wilson, to ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board reserved to it.
The primary responsibilities of the Board of Directors and he liaises with the Chief Executive, Mark are to: Lund, to make recommendations to the Board on Group strategy.
Any other significant commitments of the determine the overall strategy of the Group: Chairman are disclosed in his biography on page 22.
The ensure that the Groups operations are well managed Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the and proper succession plans are in place: Group and implement the strategies adopted by the review major transactions or initiatives proposed by the Board.
executive directors: implement appropriate corporate governance The Board delegates day to day business and risk procedures: management control to the executive Directors and other periodically review the results and operations of the senior executives, who meet twice a month to consider Group: operational issues as well as business development plans, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained financial and operating budgets and forecasts, capital and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets expenditure proposals and key performance indicators.
of the Group from fraud and other significant risks: Their decisions are communicated throughout the Group identify and manage risk: and as appropriate.
decide the Groups policy on charitable and political donations.
28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Directors and Directors Independence The Senior Independent Director Following the resignation of Mario dUrso in February 2004 The senior independent non-executive Director during the Board consisted of five executive and eight the year was Viscount Weir.
Viscount Weir is available to non-executive Directors.
With effect from 1 September meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board 2004, upon the appointment of Sarah Bates, the number of is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the non-executive Directors increased to nine.
Five of the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
It is non-executive Directors were considered by the Board to be intended that Michael Sorkin will replace Viscount Weir as independent of management and free from any business or the senior independent Director following the Annual other relationships which could materially interfere with the General Meeting.
exercise of their judgement, being Viscount Weir, Charles Bailey, Sarah Bates, Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin.
Professional Development Directors receive training in their duties and responsibilities The Board has considered the independence of Viscount on appointment as part of an induction process designed Weir, Charles Bailey and Derek Netherton with particular to assist them in their understanding of the business.
The care, given that they have been appointed to the Board for Directors are regularly updated on their duties and a period greater than six years.
The Board strongly responsibilities and have access to the advice of the believes that these Directors contribute significantly Company Secretary and to independent professional through their individual skills and their considerable advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
knowledge of both the Company and the financial services Further training is made available as necessary to ensure industry.
In particular, they continue to demonstrate a that the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant strong independence of management in the manner in developments applicable to their roles and topical issues which they discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
are also addressed at the start of each Board meeting.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied with, and believe their Non-executive Directors may also meet with major actions clearly demonstrate that, in the absence of any shareholders as necessary.
other relevant factors, Viscount Weir, Charles Bailey and Derek Netherton were independent non-executive Performance Evaluation Directors during 2004.
However, to ensure the progressive During 2004 the Chairman held separate meetings with refreshing of the Board, Viscount Weir and Anthony the non-executive Directors and the non-executive Loehnis will retire as Directors at the forthcoming Annual Directors also met without the Chairman present.
General Meeting and it is intended that further changes to The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own the Board will be made in the next year.
performance and of its committees and individual Directors by way of a detailed questionnaire.
Various The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonchanges were made to Board procedures as a result of executive Directors are available on request.
feedback arising from the Board evaluation process, for example changes to the information contained in Board packs and an increase in the number of Board meetings from four to six per year.
The non-executive Directors are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board Committees review the non-audit services provided by the external The Board has formally constituted five committees, auditors and to maintain responsibility for ensuring the being the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, Compliance independence, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the and Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and external auditors: Terms of Reference of the Board committees are reviewed monitor and oversee the Groups internal control at least annually and are available on request and procedures and risk management processes: summarised below.
approve the internal audit plan for the year and receive reports on, and review, the results of such internal Audit Committee audits including the response of management: The Audit Committee, chaired by Derek Netherton, review the activities, resources, organisational structure comprises two other independent non-executive and operational effectiveness of the internal audit Directors Charles Bailey and Viscount Weir and one nonfunction: independent non-executive Director Phil Hodkinson as receive reports from the internal audit function on an appointee of HBOS plc in accordance with the the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups control Relationship Agreement.
framework: carry out an annual review of the Groups system of The Committee members have considerable financial internal control: and experience, in particular Phil Hodkinson, as a Fellow assess the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing of the Institute of Actuaries.
It can be seen from procedures.
the Directors biographical details, appearing on pages 22 to 24, that the other members of the Committee also During the year, the Committee formally reviewed draft bring to it a wide range of experience.
interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focussing on key areas of During 2004 the Committee met five times with all judgement, accounting policies and any changes required members present with the exception of the April, July and to those.
It reviewed reports of the Risk Assurance and December meetings where Viscount Weir was absent and Internal Audit functions and external audit findings.
The the November meeting where Phil Hodkinson was absent.
Committee reviewed at each meeting a progress report on It meets with executive Directors and management, the internal audit plan and received regular updates on the as well as privately with both the external and internal implementation of that plan.
auditors and its responsibilities are to: The Audit Committee annually reviews the services being examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of provided by the external auditors.
In order to ensure the Group, including reviewing and advising the Board auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has on the Companys interim and annual financial established a financial limit of 100,000 on the fees statements, its accounting policies and compliance with that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of accounting standards: non-audit advice and consultancy work.
The Committee review the nature and scope of the work to be reviews the auditors independence annually.
Consideration performed by the external auditors, the results of the will be given to undertaking an audit tender process audit work and the responses of management: in 2006. make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and to monitor Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors their performance: during the year for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 69.
30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Remuneration Committee The Committee meets as required.
During 2004 the The Remuneration Committee comprises solely Committee members considered matters surrounding independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee, Board succession and the appointments of Sarah Bates and chaired by the Viscount Weir, also comprises Charles Andrew Croft.
As regards Sarah Bates, a detailed Bailey, Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin.
A summary specification of the role and capabilities required for the of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee appointment of a new independent non-executive is set out below: Director was prepared and this specification was then passed to an external search agency to identify potential to determine all aspects of executive Director and candidates.
As a result of this process, Sarah Bates was senior management remuneration: identified as a suitable candidate and following thorough to determine the discretionary bonus scheme for interviewing and referencing, the appointment was executive Directors and to review the performance of recommended to the Board by the Committee.
the Directors against the scheme: to determine appropriate incentives to executive In 2005 a similar process was carried out in relation to the Directors to encourage enhanced performance including appointment of Simon Gulliford.
grants of options or awards of shares and determining the policy and performance conditions of such grants or Andrew Crofts appointment as Group Finance Director awards: was announced in June 2003.
As a result of his to determine the policy for and scope of termination performance in the role, the Nomination Committee payments and severance terms for executive Directors: recommended his appointment to the Board with effect and from 1 September 2004. to be responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee is who advise the committee.
set out below: Further details on the work of the Committee is set out in to review the structure, size and composition of the the Remuneration Report on page 35.
Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required for a role and the preparation of a Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise.
The description of any new role and the capabilities Committee met twice during 2004 with all members required: present to determine remuneration issues for the year.
to consider new appointments and to make The Committee also met three times in early 2005. recommendations on suitable candidates to the Board: and Nomination Committee to consider succession planning for senior executive Mike Wilson took over the chair of the Nomination positions and the need for the progressive refreshing of Committee from Sir Mark Weinberg in September 2004. the Board.
The Committee considers appointments to the Board and the independence of any proposed new non-executive Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise and Directors.
The other members of the Nomination resolutions were passed by written resolution where it Committee are Viscount Weir and Michael Sorkin.
was impractical to convene a formal meeting.
The Committee held two formal meetings in 2004 and all members were present.
31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Compliance Committee the issue under consideration will be referred for decision The Compliance Committee, chaired by Anthony to the full Board.
The Committee did not meet during 2004.
Loehnis, is made up of executive David Bellamy, Ian Gascoigne, Mark Lund and Mike Wilson and nonDirectors and Officers Insurance executive Directors Anthony Loehnis and Charles Bailey The Group has taken out insurance covering Directors to deal explicitly with regulatory risks and issues.
The and officers against liabilities which they may incur in their Committees main responsibilities are: capacity as Directors or officers.
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Relations with Shareholders compliance and regulatory risk policies and procedures The Board maintains close relationships with institutional of the Group: shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
monitoring the results of regulatory visits to the Group: In addition, there are regular meetings with the approving the compliance monitoring plan for the year Companys brokers, Cazenove and Co Limited and and receiving reports on, and reviewing the results of, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, who facilitate meetings such compliance monitoring activity: and with other investors and their representatives.
Attendance making recommendations for changes in regulatory risk notes from such meetings are circulated to members related practices or procedures.
of the Board so they are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The senior independent Director is available During 2004 the Committee met five times to discuss a for consultation with shareholders should the need arise.
number of regulatory issues affecting the Group.
Non-executive Directors are also available to meet with major shareholders on request.
Investment Committee The Investment Committee, chaired by Sir Mark The Companys Annual General Meeting is held in Weinberg, is made up of executive Mark Lund and nonLondon where members of the Board are available to executive Directors Anthony Loehnis and Sarah Bates answer shareholders questions on the activities of the and is responsible for monitoring the performance and Board and its Committees.
Where possible, the timing and suitability of the external fund managers, with assistance location of the meeting is designed to encourage the from investment consultants Stamford Associates.
It met participation of small shareholders.
Its main responsibilities are to ensure that the fund managers follow the terms of their Relationship with HBOS plc agreements with the Company, to make recommendations A quoted company which has a majority shareholder must regarding the appointment or removal of fund managers be capable at all times of carrying out its business and to oversee market risk.
independently of such a shareholder and all transactions and relationships between the company and the controlling Urgent Issues Committee shareholder must be at arms length and on a normal Comprising the Chairman or the Chief Executive and at commercial basis.
To this end, the Company and Halifax least two other Directors, one of whom must be a nonGroup plc entered into the Relationship Agreement to executive Director, the role of the Urgent Issues regulate the relationship between the two companies after Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency the completion of the Partial Offer in June 2000. which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can Following the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland on act only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, 10 September 2001, the Relationship Agreement was novated to HBOS plc.
32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial ensure that the Company can operate independently of statements on pages 51 to 84, the Group has used the HBOS group and to provide that the relationship appropriate accounting policies, which have been between members of the HBOS group and the SJPC consistently applied and supported by reasonable and Group will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable the Agreement, the HBOS group has power to appoint a accounting standards have been followed.
The financial number of Directors to the Board and its committees.
The statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
number varies in relation to HBOS shareholding in the company.
At present, HBOS has exercised its right to The Guidance issued in December 2001 by the appoint three non-executive Directors to the SJPC Board Association of British Insurers entitled Supplementary and a representative to the Audit Committee of the Reporting for Long Term Insurance Business the Company.
Achieved Profits Method requires the Directors to prepare supplementary information presented under the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Achieved Profits Method in accordance with the guidance, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial as set out on pages 86 to 92. statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of In preparing the achieved profits supplementary the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
information, the Directors are required to: In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are also required to: select suitable methodologies and then apply them consistently: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them determine assumptions on a realistic basis, having consistently: regard to past, current and expected future experience make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and and to any relevant external data, and then apply them prudent: consistently: state whether applicable accounting standards have been state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed followed in relation to the residual assets, subject to any and explained in the financial statements: and material departures disclosed and explained in the prepare the financial statements on a going concern supplementary information: and basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the prepare the supplementary information on the going Group will continue in business.
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Going Concern time the financial position of the Company and which The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the enable them to ensure that the financial statements Company and the Group have adequate resources to comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the preparing the accounts.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk Management and Internal Control The processes set out above were in place for the year The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of under review and up to the date of approval of the annual internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This report and accounts and accord with the Turnbull includes financial, operational and compliance controls Guidance.
In February 2005, the Audit Committee and risk management.
The Audit and Compliance conducted an annual review that considered the Committees along with an appropriately staffed and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls qualified Risk Assurance internal audit function support during 2004, including financial, operational, compliance the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities.
and other risk management systems.
In establishing the system of internal control, the The review also includes the nature and scope of the Directors have regard to materiality of relevant risk, the ongoing monitoring processes, including the Risk likelihood of a risk occurring and the cost of mitigating Assurance function, and the potential impact on these risk.
It is therefore designed to manage, rather than processes as a result of any changes during the year to the eliminate risk and as such can provide only reasonable and Groups risk profile.
not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The Groups risk appetite and risk Statement of Business Practice policies are documented in a manner consistent with the To further the Groups continued commitment to Prudential Sourcebook.
Corporate Governance, the Company has published a statement of business practice.
This statement, in the form The Directors and senior managers of the Group are of a booklet entitled Our Approach, is provided to all committed to maintaining a strong controls culture within employees and members of the St. Jamess Place all business areas and have established processes for Partnership and covers areas such as: evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In particular, the Groups senior management the Groups objectives: adopts a risk management process that identifies the key the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and vulnerabilities and risks facing each business area and value is maintained: reports, via Risk Assurance, to the Audit Committee on the Groups corporate culture and management style: how these risks and vulnerabilities are being managed.
The how the Group deals with internal and external Risk Assurance audit function adopts a risk based communication: and approach, with their work plans being derived from the Groups commitment to the St. Jamess Place assessments of the key risks facing the business, adopted as Foundation, a charitable trust, more details of which necessary to deal with any emerging issues.
The Groups senior management have clear defined The booklet emphasises the values of integrity, trust, responsibilities and accountabilities for managing specific openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed areas of risk and these are documented in individual job to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions descriptions consistent with the Groups risk policies.
These are subject to frequent review to ensure that they remain aligned with business developments and any new or emerging risks.
