Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for ensuring Rules and that directors of the Company complied with this code proper standards of corporate governance are maintained and of conduct throughout the financial period.
The Board This report has been prepared in accordance with the principles The Board is made up of the Chairman, six executive directors and provisions of the Code of Best Practice in the Combined and nine independent non-executive directors and is collectively Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting responsible for the success of the Company.
All the directors are Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The directors subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General confirm that the Company complies with the principles of the Meeting AGM after their appointment and then to re-election at Combined Code except that meeting major shareholders is not intervals of no more than three years.
currently part of the induction programme for non-executive directors and that evaluation of the performance of the Board and The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters its committees was not carried out during 2004.
Explanations of specifically reserved for its decision.
These matters include these exceptions are given in the sections on Independent determining and reviewing the strategy of the Company and the Non-executive Directors and Performance Evalutation, below.
Group, overseeing the Groups compliance with statutory and Apart from the exceptions mentioned above, the following report regulatory obligations, issues relating to the Companys and the explains how the Company applies the principles of the Groups capital, the Groups structure and areas of operation, Combined Code.
financial reporting, ensuring there is a sound system of internal control and risk management, and appointments to the Board.
The Company is a public company, listed on both the London The Board delegates matters to the executive directors and other and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and has sufficient share capital senior management.
The Board has approximately eight scheduled meetings each The directors confirm that, throughout the financial year, the year.
Two of these meetings are usually held in countries where Company complied with the provisions of Appendix 14 of the the Group operates outside the United Kingdom.
The directors Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong the HK use these overseas visits to meet staff, corporate customers, Listing Rules.
and government and regulatory officials.
The directors confirm that Mrs A A Snow is the Companys The directors are given accurate, timely and clear information so qualified accountant for the purposes of Rule 3.24 of the that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, HK Listing Rules.
financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
The directors confirm that the Company has adopted a code of The following table shows the number of Board and Committee conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms meetings held during the year and the attendance of no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the HK Listing individual directors.
Board Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 84665 B K Sanderson 8 4 3 E M Davies 8 4 Sir CK Chow 7 3 M B DeNoma 8 4 J F T Dundas 7 4 V F Gooding Ho KwonPing 5 1 5 C A Keljik 8 4 R H P Markham 6 4 6 3 R Markland 8 4 6 4 R H Meddings 8 3 K S Nargolwala 8 4 H E Norton 73465 P A Sands 8 4 P D Skinner 8 3 4 O H J Stocken 4 1 1 Appointed to the Board on 15 March 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2005.
48 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The directors have a range of skills and experience and each Although not part of their induction programme, the non-executive brings an independent judgement and considerable knowledge directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major to the Boards discussions.
On appointment, each director shareholders and analysts and they receive, in a timely manner, receives a full, formal, tailored induction covering the Groups accurate information reflecting the views of the Companys business and operations and also the legal, regulatory and other institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Major shareholders obligations of a director of a dual listed company.
As well as are offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent formal induction, directors receive training through a formal Director to discuss any issues or concerns.
and structured programme to continually develop and update The Board is aware of the other commitments of its non-executive their knowledge and capabilities.
Where an independent directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their non-executive director is appointed to one of the Boards duties as directors of the Company.
standing committees, additional training is given which is relevant to the committee appointment.
Changes to the commitments of the non-executive directors are reported to the Board.
The independent non-executive directors appointed during 2004 have completed their induction programmes.
The terms and conditions of the non-executive directors appointments are available for inspection at the Companys The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in registered office.
respect of legal proceedings and other claims against its directors.
Board Committees The Boards executive directors are not allowed more than one During 2003, an external review of the Board committee non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
structure was carried out and in 2004, following this review, the Board appointed a separate Nomination Committee.
During the year, the Chairman of the Board, Mr B K Sanderson, stepped down as chairman of Sunderland PLC, but remained as a The Board now has three standing committees with specific non-executive director, Mr E M Davies was appointed as a nondelegated authorities: the Board Nomination Committee, the executive director of Tottenham Hotspur plc and Mr K S Nargolwala Board Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk was appointed as a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Details of these committees and their members are Details of the directors other directorships can be found on given below.
The Board Nomination Committee Chairman and Group Chief Executive The members of the Board Nomination Committee are: The roles and objectives of the Chairman, Mr B K Sanderson, Mr B K Sanderson Chairman Ms R Markland and the Group Chief Executive, Mr E M Davies, are separate and Mr R H P Markham Mr H E Norton have been approved by the Board.
All of the Committee members, with the exception of Mr Sanderson, Independent Non-executive Directors are independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are The Committees responsibilities include: independent and has received from each of them the annual reviewing the structure, size and composition of the confirmation of independence required by the HK Listing Rules.
Board and making recommendations with regard to any The names and biographies of the non-executive directors are adjustments that the Committee deems necessary to set out on page 45.
The non-executive directors are appointed ensure the Board has the optimum balance of skills, for specific terms and are subject to periodic re-appointment in knowledge and experience: accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The Chairman has regular meetings with the non-executive directors where Board vacancies arise, evaluating the skill, knowledge without the executive directors being present.
and experience needed to fill the vacancy, and identifying and nominating suitable candidates to the Board: and The proposals for the re-election of non-executive directors who have served on the Board for more than six years are keeping under review the succession plans for the Group covered in the section on the work of the Board Nomination relating to both directors and other senior executives and Committee below.
making consequential recommendations to the Board.
Mr H E Norton is the Senior Independent Director and can be The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations contacted in writing at the Companys registered office.
for the appointment of the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive or any other director.
The Group Chairman will not chair any meeting at which the Committee is considering the appointment of a successor to the Group Chairman.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 49 Corporate Governance Significant changes to the external commitments of the Group Mr H E Norton has served on the Board for more than nine years Chairman are reported to the Board for its approval.
and at the 2005 AGM will offer himself for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Having carried out a In the selection process for new directors, the Committee can rigorous review of Mr Nortons performance and contribution to consult external advisors and an external search consultant the decisions made by the Board during 2004, the Committee was used in the selection process for the three appointments believes Mr Norton continues to be independent in character and detailed below.
In addition, taking into account the changes to the Two independent non-executive directors were appointed Board over the previous year, it believes that Mr Nortons long during 2004, Mr J F T Dundas and Mr O H J Stocken, and a experience as a director will be invaluable to the Board in its further independent non-executive director, Miss V F Gooding, development over the next year.
The Committee therefore fully was appointed in January 2005.
Before recommending these supports the proposal to re-elect Mr Norton as an independent appointments the Committee considered the suitability of the non-executive director for a further year.
candidates against the skills, knowledge and experience required to produce a balanced board.
In addition, the Committee took The Board Remuneration Committee into account whether the candidates would have an appropriate The members of the Board Remuneration Committee are: amount of time to devote to their duties.
The Committee Mr H E Norton Chairman Mr P D Skinner considered that the candidates respective skills would Mr Ho KwonPing Mr O H J Stocken substantially contribute to the Board and unanimously Ms R Markland recommended that the Board consider their appointment.
All of the Committee members are independent non-executive The Committee considered carefully the cross directorships directors.
The Committee determines the pay and benefits of the which the Chairman and Miss Gooding would hold following her Group Chairman, executive directors and senior management.
appointment to the Board and after detailed deliberation was The remuneration of all directors and senior management is subject entirely satisfied that these cross directorships would not impair to regular monitoring to ensure that levels of remuneration and Miss Goodings independence in the conduct of her duties as a compensation are appropriate.
The Board fully debated the issue before reaching an informed decision to appoint Miss Gooding.
The A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors Chairman did not participate in the meeting of the Nomination and details of the work of the Committee are included in the Committee held on 2 November 2004 at which Miss Goodings Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 67. appointment and independence were considered.
In addition, the Chairman did not participate in the subsequent discussions The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board regarding her appointment and independence.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are: The Committee reviewed the performance of the three directors Mr R H P Markham Chairman Ms R Markland noted below and made recommendations to the Board on Mr J F T Dundas Mr H E Norton their re-election: All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive Sir CK Chow and Mr Ho KwonPing have served on the Board for directors.
The Committees chairman, Mr Markham, is a qualified more than six years and, at the 2005 AGM, will retire by rotation accountant and has recent and relevant financial experience.
in accordance with the Companys articles of association, and In 2003, the Committee increased the number of meetings it has stand for re-election.
The Committee has carried out a rigorous each year to six.
This reflects the importance the Board attaches review of the performance of these two independent nonto the role of the Committee and the amount of work it is required executive directors and their contribution to the deliberations of to carry out.
The Committee, as part of its review, has taken into account the need for progressive refreshing of the The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the Companys Board and it believes that both Sir CK Chow and Mr Ho continue annual and interim financial statements, circulars to shareholders to be committed to the Company and independent in character and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial and judgement.
The Committee therefore fully supports the performance, including significant financial reporting judgements re-election of Sir CK Chow and Mr Ho as independent non-executive contained in them.
It keeps under review the appropriateness of directors of the Company.
the Groups accounting policies and considers changes to them.
Ultimate responsibility for the approval of the annual and interim financial statements rests with the Board.
50 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 At least once a year, the Committee meets with the external In addition to audit related services, KPMG provided the following auditor and Group Head of Internal Audit without other types of services: management being present to discuss matters relating to the taxation advice, including planning and compliance: auditors remit and any issues arising from the audit.
advice and support with due diligence exercises: In relation to the Groups internal audit function the Committees advice on IFRS accounting: responsibilities include: regulatory reviews and reporting: monitoring and assessing the role and effectiveness of the anti-money laundering advice: Groups internal audit function and receiving reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on these matters: and corporate recovery services: and considering the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the risk and compliance advisory services.
Group Head of Internal Audit.
Details of the amounts paid to KPMG during the year for audit In relation to the Groups external auditor the Committees and non-audit services are set out in note 5 to the accounts.
responsibilities include: Terms of Reference considering and making recommendations to the Board on The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the terms the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or dismissal of of reference for the Board Nomination Committee, the Board the external auditor: Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee are approving the terms of engagement, nature and scope of the available on the Companys website and available for inspection at audit: the Companys registered office.
reviewing the findings of the audit including any major issues that arose during the course of the audit: and Independent Professional Advice reviewing and monitoring the cost effectiveness of the audit Directors may, in appropriate circumstances, take independent taking into consideration relevant UK professional and professional advice at the Companys expense.
All of the directors regulatory requirements and approving the audit fee.
have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable laws The Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and removal and the Groups internal control and risk management systems of the Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
and reports on these to the Board.
Details of the Companys internal controls and how risk is managed can be found below The Boards standing committees are able to take independent under the heading Internal Controls.
professional advice or use external consultants, where appropriate, at the Companys expense.
Arrangements have been put in place by which the Companys employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Performance Evaluation improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that a rigorous evaluation These arrangements are covered in the Companys Speaking is carried out of its performance, and that of its committees and Up policy, commonly known as a whistle-blowing policy.
Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing these arrangements and for ensuring that any matters of concern During 2003, an independent external consultant carried out are investigated.
an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Chairman and the Board as Auditor Independence and Objectivity a whole at the end of 2003.
Due to the substantial number of The Company has adopted a policy on the use of non-audit changes to the Board and its committees during 2004, it was services provided by the Companys external auditor, KPMG not considered appropriate to undertake an evaluation of Board Audit Plc KPMG.
The Committees pre-approval is required or committee performance.
A full and rigorous evaluation of the before the Company uses non-audit services that fall within Boards performance and that of its committees and individual definitions contained in the policy.
The non-audit services of directors will be carried out during 2005.
KPMG will only be used where the Company benefits in a cost-effective manner and the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 51 Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This ensures The Board recognises the importance of good communications that there are written policies and procedures to identify and with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional manage risk including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, shareholders and general presentations are made when the regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit financial results are announced.
The Board has established a management structure that opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are documented and communicated.
Executive risk The Combined Code and the HK Listing Rules require committees regularly review the Groups risk profile.
companies to post the notice of the AGM to shareholders at The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
The to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends Company aims to achieve this and will always give shareholders and forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets the 21 days notice required by the UK Companies Act.
and prior periods, are closely monitored.
Financial information is Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially prepared using appropriate accounting policies, which are applied separate issue.
The Company displays the proxy voting results consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have been on each resolution at the AGM.
The notice of AGM is also established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing available on audio cassette and CD.
of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls The Company encourages its shareholders to receive the Companys include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation corporate documents electronically.
The annual and interim of accounts, and the valuation of assets and positions.
financial statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all available electronically.
Shareholders are also able to vote The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM.
regularly by the Board, its committees, Group management, and Group Internal Audit.
Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with Going Concern policies and standards and the effectiveness of internal control The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Group has adequate structures across the Group.
The work of Group Internal Audit is resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For focused on the areas of greatest risk as determined by a risk this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis when assessment approach.
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the preparing the financial statements.
Audit and Risk Committee, the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Internal Control Group Chief Executive and immediate corrective action is required.
The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness business and financial activities in a manner which enables it to of the Groups system of internal control during the year ended maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks 31 December 2004 and reported to the Board.
The review was which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance supported by an annual business self-certification process, which with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to was managed by Group Internal Audit.
The Committee has also external events.
To achieve this, the Board has established a reviewed the recommendations for provisions against bad or process for the identification, evaluation and management of the doubtful loans and other credit exposures.
risks faced by the Group which operated through the year ended 31 December 2004 and to 16 February 2005, the date the Board During the year ended 31 December 2004, Standard Chartered approved this annual report and accounts.
It should be recognised Bank entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve that such a process can only provide reasonable, not absolute, Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process is to address deficiencies relating to compliance with applicable reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the requirements federal and state laws, rules and regulations governing anti-money of the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors laundering.
Significant remediation is underway and is being on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered closely monitored by the Board.
In February 2004, the Financial Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
The system of internal Services Agency FSA of Japan issued Standard Chartered Bank control of the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the with a Business Improvement Order BIO relating to Know Your United Kingdom and overseas.
Customer and Suspicious Activity Reporting.
Standard Chartered Bank has communicated to the FSA of Japan that all BIO related The Financial Review on pages 26 to 42 describes the Groups actions are complete.
The Groups business is conducted within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy 52 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Code of Conduct Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to work with line management to assist them in designing procedures the lawful and ethical conduct of business.
These requirements to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In every country, are linked to the Groups five core values.
The Group Code of the Country Management Committee Manco supported by the Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees Country Operational Risk Group CORG is responsible for ensuring are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing there are risk management frameworks in place to monitor, in relation to customers, staff, and regulators in the communities manage and report SEE risk.
The Country Chief Executives chair in which the Group operates.
both the Mancos and CORGs.
Compliance with these policies and procedures is the responsibility Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and rewarding In February 2005, the Board established a Corporate Responsibility performance, guidance to managers was published during 2002. and Community Committee, to help align business strategy with This explicitly states that account should be taken of adherence the Groups corporate responsibility aspirations.
to all relevant Group policies, including those associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging risks are escalated The Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee with to senior management through clearly documented internal the Group Chairman, Mr B K Sanderson, as its chairman, will reporting procedures such as Manco.
Group Internal Audit deal with matters relating to the environment, diversity and monitors compliance with policies and standards and effectiveness inclusion, sponsorship, community and social investment and of the Groups internal control structures through its programme other corporate responsibility and community matters as it or of business audits and annual Turnbull Review.
Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities issues and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
Standard Chartered complies with the guidelines issued by the The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks Association of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and that failure to manage them adequately would have an and reporting on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters adverse impact on the Groups business.
These risks are and is committed to the communities and environments in which implicitly recognised in reaching lending decisions explicitly it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high identified in the Groups lending policies.
During 2003, the Group standards of responsible business are maintained and that an adopted the Equator Principles that set procedures, based on effective control framework is in place.
Standard Chartered has the International Finance Corporation guidelines, for recognising established and maintains policies and procedures in relation to the environmental and social impacts and risks associated with SEE related risks.
Details of these policies can be found on the project finance.
The Principles have been embedded in our Companys website: www.
project finance lending policy and procedures.
Through the Groups risk management structure and control The Group continues to review and, where appropriate, framework, the Board receives regular and adequate information strengthen its money laundering prevention policies, procedures to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities arising and training.
Formal training arrangements are in place for key SEE issues, including arrangements for directors.
The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 53
