SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 32 Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance since it was listed on the London Stock of corporate governance.
In July 2003, a of their duties, to take independent Exchange in May 1996 and has played a revised Combined Code on Corporate professional advice at the expense of the pivotal role in the Companys development Governance the Code was published by Company has been reconfirmed during the since that date.
Process provisions of the revised Code formally apply Composition and independence The Nominations Committee and the Board to the Company for the first time for the year The Board currently consists of two executive with the exception of Nicholas Ferguson ended 31 December 2004.
The UK Listing and six non-executive Directors.
Profiles of were involved in the selection of a suitable Authority requires all listed companies to each of the Directors, including age and candidate as Chairman to succeed John disclose how they have applied the principles length of service, may be found on page 18.
of, and complied with, the provisions of the The Board considers each of the Chairman, Code.
Francis Finlay, Anthony Habgood, Edgar Criteria The Board has undertaken a strategic review Koning, Denis Raeburn and Charles Sinclair to SVG Capital is focused on the specialist area of its governance structure.
This review was be independent.
The independence of each of private equity.
It is self managed and the begun at the end of 2003 and finalised in Director is considered on a continuing basis.
key decisions on investment commitments to November 2004.
Prior to the conclusion new funds and to support new initiatives are A review of Board composition and balance, of the review, the Company substantially all taken by the Board.
It has a rapidly including succession planning for complied with the best practice provisions growing and valuable advisory business in the appointments to the Board, is included as in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code.
The nature of the part of the annual performance evaluation of Following the conclusion of this review, the business, the expectation of shareholders, the the Board, details of which may be found Board has amended the Schedule of Matters continuing growth and the issues the below.
During the year under review, two reserved for its decision and adopted revised Company will face over the next few years, non-executive Directors retired and the Terms of Reference for all its Committees.
The including its relationship with the key composition of the Board and its Committees Board has also appointed Anthony Habgood underlying advisers, lead the Board to was refreshed by the appointment of as Senior Independent Director with effect conclude that the key qualities the Company additional independent non-executives.
from 1 December 2004. required in its Chairman are as follows: The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient A formal and rigorous process for the extensive experience in private equity and a size, with an appropriate balance of skills and evaluation of the performance of Directors thorough understanding of the private experience, and that no individual or group of and the Board and its Committees has been equity investment process individuals is or has been in a position to developed and agreed.
ability to command respect of Board dominate decision making.
members, shareholders, employees and our The Board considers that the Company has, underlying private equity fund managers The role of the Chairman since the conclusion of the review, complied demonstration of a strong commitment to The Chairman is responsible for leading the with the best practice provisions in Section 1 creation of value for shareholders, both Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of the Code, save in respect of the matter through net asset and share price growth of its role and setting its agenda.
disclosed below, where departure from the a commitment to high standards of Code is considered appropriate.
corporate governance Succession a clear understanding of the role of The Chairman of the Company has decided Application of code principles Chairman to retire at the forthcoming AGM and Role of the Board Nicholas Ferguson, the current Chief The Board determines and monitors the Taking these qualities into consideration and Executive has agreed to step-down as Chief Companys investment objectives and policy, after careful consideration of all the options, Executive and succeed the Chairman.
decides on individual fund investments and the Board unanimously believes that Nicholas considers the future strategic direction of the Ferguson is the best candidate for the The Code requires an explanation in cases Company.
The Board is responsible for position of Chairman.
Whilst the Board and where an individual who previously held the presenting a balanced and understandable the Nominations Committee have considered position of chief executive is appointed assessment of the Companys position and, a search for an external candidate, the Board chairman of the board.
The Boards reasoning where appropriate, future prospects in annual believes that it is unlikely that any such search for its decision is provided in the Chairmans and interim reports and other forms of public will yield a better candidate.
statement and background is provided below: reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing As further outlined in the Chairmans Background and shareholder communication strategies, statement on pages 2 and 3, the Board is not Nicholas Ferguson has been active in the and evaluates the performance of all service proposing to replace Nicholas Ferguson as private equity industry for over twenty years.
providers, with input from its Committees Chief Executive.
He was formerly Chairman of Schroder where appropriate.
Ventures and was instrumental in its development since its inception in the early 1980s.
He has been a Director of SVG Capital SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33 Independence Induction and training The Board is satisfied that each of the Although Nicholas Ferguson, on appointment, When a Director is appointed he or she Chairman and the other non-executive will not meet the independence criteria set receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs out in the Code, the Board believes this Changes affecting Directors responsibilities of the Company to fulfil their duties as appointment to be in the best interests of the are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Information flows Consultation Directors may attend ad hoc seminars Management reports to the Board on at least As required by the Code, the Board has covering issues and developments relevant to a quarterly basis and as appropriate on consulted with major shareholders in the Company.
Shareholders representing The Chairman ensures that Directors are approximately 60% of the Companys share Performance evaluation provided, on a regular basis, with key capital at 18 March 2005 have indicated they The Board has adopted a formal and rigorous information on the Companys policies, are supportive of this succession.
annual evaluation of its own performance and regulatory requirements and internal controls.
that of its Committees and individual The Board receives and considers reports Senior Independent Director Directors.
The first evaluation began in regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports The Board has considered whether a Senior December 2004.
The evaluation is in two and information are supplied to the Board as Independent Director should be appointed.
First, the evaluation of individual required.
Following the completion of the governance Directors is led by the Chairman, and the review in November 2004, Anthony Habgood evaluation of the Chairmans performance is Committees was appointed as Senior Independent led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has delegated certain Director with effect from 1 December 2004.
Evaluation is conducted utilising a responsibilities and functions to committees.
The Senior Independent Director intends to questionnaire combined with one to one Terms of Reference, as well as details of lead the evaluation of the performance of the meetings.
Secondly, the Board evaluates its membership and activities for all Committees Chairman and is available to shareholders if own performance and that of its Committees.
of the Board, are set out on the following they have concerns, that cannot be resolved The Board has developed criteria for use at pages.
The Board keeps under review the through discussion with the Chairman.
As the evaluation, which focuses on the composition of each of its Committees to part of the evaluation process, the nonindividual contribution to the Board and its ensure that undue reliance is not placed on executive Directors will meet without the Committees made by each Director and the particular individuals.
Chairman being present, and the Senior responsibilities, composition and agenda of Independent Director will chair these the Committees and of the Board itself.
The Board believes that the maintenance of Meetings good relations with both institutional and Company Secretary The Board held five scheduled meetings, retail shareholders is important for the The Directors have access to the advice and including one strategy meeting, during 2004. prospects of the Company.
It has, since its services of the corporate Company Secretary Additional meetings were also arranged as launch, sought engagement with investors.
through its appointed representative, who is required.
Attendance at the five scheduled The Chairman, the Senior Independent responsible to the Board, inter alia, for meetings was as set out below: Director and other Directors where ensuring that Board procedures are followed appropriate, discuss governance and strategy and that applicable rules and regulations areDirector Attendance with major shareholders and the Chairman complied with.
J J McLachlan 5 ensures communication of shareholders views N E H Ferguson 5 to the Board.
The Board also receives Tenure C J Govett 3 feedback on the views of shareholders from The Directors have adopted a policy on D F K Finlay 1 its corporate broker.
tenure that they consider appropriate for the A J Habgood 5 Company as a self-managed investment trust.
E W Koning 3 The Board believes that the Annual General The Board does not believe that length of D Raeburn 5 Meeting provides an appropriate forum for service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship A F Sykes 1 investors to communicate with the Board, with the Executive.
The independence of A C Williams 5 and encourages participation.
The Annual Directors will continue to be assessed on a Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent Resigned as a Director on 30 September 2004 and did case by case basis.
In order to allow to shareholders at least 20 business days not attend the meeting in June 2004. shareholders the opportunity to endorse this Appointed as a Director on 1 October 2004 and before the Annual General Meeting, which is policy, however, any Director who has served attended the maximum number of meetings held in normally attended by the full Board of for more than nine years will be subject to 2004 following appointment.
Proceedings include a presentation Resigned as a Director on 31 March 2004 and attended annual re-election at the Annual General on the activities of the Company.
There is an the maximum number of meetings held in 2004 before Meeting.
opportunity for individual shareholders to question the chairmen of the Board, Audit SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 34 Corporate governance continued and Remuneration Committees.
Details of impact on the Companys performance or proxy votes received in respect of each condition.
resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Although the Board believes that it has a Companys policy of reporting to shareholders robust framework of internal control in place as soon as possible after the Companys yearthis can provide only reasonable and not end is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on absolute assurance against material financial pages 66 and 67 sets out the business of the misstatement or loss and is designed to meeting.
Going concern Following an annual review, the Company The Directors believe that it is appropriate to appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as its continue to adopt the going concern basis internal auditor and the initial programme in preparing the accounts as the Company of audit commenced in 2002.
The internal has adequate financial resources to continue audit process is on-going and the findings in operational existence for the foreseeable of the internal auditor are reported to the future.
For this reason, and in accordance with The Board has conducted an annual review FRS18, they continue to adopt the going of the effectiveness of the system of internal concern basis in preparing the financial control covering all controls including statements.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment took Internal control into account issues arising from the reports The Code requires the Board to review the reviewed by the Board during the year effectiveness of internal controls.
The Board together with any additional information has previously undertaken a full review of all necessary to enable the Board to take account the aspects covered by the Turnbull guidance of all significant aspects of internal control.
under which the Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has adopted an updated risk map that identifies significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider risks and adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis.
The Board believes that the key risks identified and the implementation of an on-going system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the Companys business as an investment trust.
The on-going risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control adopted by major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material
