Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance This statement, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 31, explains how the Company has applied the principles 22 set out in section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code in July 2003.
The revised Code comes into effect for listed companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is considering the principles and provisions of the revised Code, and will report on compliance in full in next years Annual Report.
The following statement is given in relation to the version of the Code, issued in June 1998, applicable to the year ended 1 May 2004 except for issues relating to the composition of the Board which are dealt with in this statement.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied as follows: The Board The overall strategy and objectives for the Group are agreed by the Board as a whole, with the day to day management being delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors, with each Executive Director being responsible for the performance of his area of the business.
The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
However, the Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior executive roles.
Directors The Board currently consists of five Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Simon Metcalf joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2004.
The Board met six times during the year under review and six meetings are scheduled for the current year.
The Non-Executive Directors, including Mr Metcalf, are considered by the Board to be independent under the terms of the new Combined Code, except for Sir Harry Djanogly who has been a member of the Board since 1993.
Sir Harry has confirmed his intention to retire from the Board next spring and he is no longer a member of any Board Committee.
When Sir Harry retires it is intended to appoint a further independent Non-Executive Director, making five in total.
Under the Companys Articles of Association one-third of the Board is subject to retirement and re-election each year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Directors have agreed that every Director will submit himself or herself for re-election at least every three years regardless of whether he or she would be required to retire by rotation under the Companys current Articles of Association.
The Board does not consider it necessary to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive at this stage of the Companys development.
The Board includes experienced Non-Executive Directors who ensure that there is no undue dominance by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is not a member of any Board Committee although he attends Committee meetings if invited.
All major decisions are taken after full consultation with the Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the period Sir Harry Djanogly was the Senior Non-Executive Director.
Baroness Noakes became Senior Independent Director with effect from 29 June 2004.
Each Board member receives monthly trading results, commentary and an update on key business issues and prior to each Board meeting receives a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board covers key areas of the Companys affairs.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings 23 For the year to 1 May 2004 the Directors attendance at meetings was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings: 6324 Lord Harris 6 M J Harris 6 J Kitching 6 2 D Shapland 6 C Sollesse 6 Sir Harry Djanogly 6 3 2 Baroness Noakes 5 2 4 M Toogood 5 2 Baroness Wilcox 6324 Scheduled meetings for 2004 05 6423 Board Committees The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, as described below.
Executive Directors attend both the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on the request of the respective Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprised Mr John Kitching, Mr Martin Toogood and Baroness Wilcox Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee considers the re-appointment of Directors retiring by rotation and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
Baroness Wilcox Committee Chairman, Baroness Noakes and Sir Harry Djanogly served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
On 18 June 2004 Mr Metcalf replaced Sir Harry Djanogly and all the Committee members are now independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of this Committee are described fully in the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 31.
During the year Baroness Noakes was Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other Committee members were Sir Harry Djanogly and Baroness Wilcox.
With effect from 18 June 2004, Sir Harry was replaced by Mr Metcalf and Mr Toogood succeeded Baroness Wilcox.
All the Committee members are now independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, which will meet at least four times a year going forward, reviews the Companys interim and annual financial statements before submission for approval by the Board and considers any matters raised by the auditors.
In addition it reviews the Companys internal controls and internal audit procedures and advises the Board on such matters.
Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings include the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee regularly meets with the external auditors without the presence of management and from the 2004 05 financial year will meet similarly with the Head of Internal Audit.
The Directors intention is that the auditors independence should not be jeopardised and Carpetrights policy is for the auditor to carry out audit and assurance related activities.
Any other consulting work or other professional advice will be undertaken by a separate professional firm of advisers.
Internal control In accordance with the Turnbull Report the Directors are required to report on their review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In order to fulfil this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The key elements of the Groups systems of internal control are as follows: Identification of business risks The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
For a number of years now the Group has operated a Risk Management Committee.
To further improve this procedure, starting in 2004 05, the Group Finance Director, the Commercial Director, the Managing Director and the Sales Director will meet bimonthly with the Head of Internal Audit with the objective of identifying and assessing risks to the Companys three-year strategy.
This Executive Directors Group will report separately on the control environment to the Audit Committee.
The Group will direct the Risk Management Committee to provide a risk response to each of the identified risks.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance The Risk Management Committee comprises the senior management team and reviews, on a bimonthly basis, the risk management 24 and control process and considers the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others and the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
The Risk Management Committee oversees the maintenance of risk registers for each department which are an essential tool in the ongoing management of risk throughout the business.
The Risk Management Committee receives reports from the Environmental, Corporate Social Responsibility, Health and Safety and Reputational Risk Sub-Committees.
The key elements of the Groups internal control and risk management system are: Health and Safety Enforcing the Health and Safety policy is a high priority for management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work or following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Procedures documentation Business Procedures and Systems Procedures Manuals are available to provide staff with a reliable source of reference on all Company procedures.
Procedures are reviewed regularly and updates are issued as necessary via a weekly bulletin to all stores and central departments.
Compliance with procedures and controls has been augmented by the introduction of a Store Action Report Book to assist managers with planning.
Planning The Group operates a comprehensive planning system together with formal reviews and approval of annual budgets by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the Budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Key performance indicators are monitored weekly.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Where necessary, separate working parties are set up to investigate and recommend means of addressing significant areas of concern, in addition to the work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee.
The Internal Audit function undertakes regular field visits at varying frequencies based upon a risk model.
Monitoring and effectiveness On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by reviewing the internal audit programme and its findings, by reviewing the work of the Risk Management Committee, reviewing the half year and annual financial statements, and the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identifiable risks are closely examined so that appropriate action may be taken, or directed.
The Risk Management Committee reports on risk management developments to the Audit Committee: from 2004 05 the Executive Directors Group will perform this function.
The Audit Committee in turn reports on risk management developments to the Board.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified the appropriate action is taken, which may entail application to the Board for approval for items involving substantial expenditure.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems of internal control during the year.
In particular, a corporate Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant risks which affect the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
These processes and organisational procedures enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains good communications with shareholders.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss the strategies and objectives of the Company.
Major investors are welcome to meet with the Non-Executive Directors if they wish to do so.
In accordance with the Companys usual practice, there will be a brief statement by the Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on current trading conditions, followed by further trading updates as listed on the Calendar on the inner back cover.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate web site.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Accountability and audit 25 The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 32.
The Statement by the auditor on its responsibility in respect of the accounts is contained in its report on page 33.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 1 May 2004 and 3 May 2003 are disclosed in Note 3 to the Accounts.
Going concern The Group and Company accounts have been prepared on the basis that the Group and Company will continue to be going concerns for the foreseeable future.
In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Group and Companys budgets for the year ending 30 April 2005 and outline projections for the subsequent two years, including capital expenditure and cash flow forecasts.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Company is very aware of its responsibilities to the wider community and is drawing up a Corporate Social Responsibility policy which will be available on the corporate web site www.
The policy will include relations with staff, shareholders and the community, trade bodies and suppliers and charitable and political donations.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period ended 1 May 2004 except that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, as discussed above.
During the year the Chairman and Chief Executives notice period was reduced to 12 months.
In addition, the Board has redesignated Sir Harry Djanogly as non-independent in line with the new Combined Code and he has ceased to be the Senior Non-Executive Director.
The way in which the Company will achieve future compliance in relation to the Board is detailed above.
Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has reviewed the Directors statement on the Companys compliance to the extent required by the listing rules and its report appears on page 33.
