Corporate governance APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE enabling directors to probe on matters of concern or PRINCIPLES seek clarification on certain issues.
The Board attaches great importance to ensuring There were seven Board meetings, two audit that the Company operates to high ethical and committee meetings and three nomination compliance standards.
In addition, the Board seeks committee meetings held during the year and the to observe the principles set out in the UK Listing attendance by directors was as follows: Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate Number of meetings attended Governance insofar as these are consistent with the Companys status and objectives as an investment Audit Nomination trust.
Board Committee Committee The Board also complies with the Code of Corporate John Reeve 7 2 3 Governance published by the Association of Gary Allen 4 2 3 Investment Trust Companies as far as practical.
The John Hudson 7 2 1 Code provides a guide to best practice in certain Richard Jewson 7 2 3 areas of governance where the specific Martin Riley 2 characteristics of investment trusts suggest that Field Walton 7 2 3 alternative approaches to those set out in the Combined Code may be preferable.
appointed a director on 20 September 2004 COMPLIANCE WITH THE DETAILED Independence of the Directors PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE Each of the directors is independent of any Operation of the Board association with the management company and has Each of the directors is independent of any no other relationships or circumstances which might association with the management company which be perceived to interfere with the exercise of might interfere with the exercise of independent independent judgement.
Three of the five directors judgement.
There is a formal schedule of matters to Mr Reeve, Mr Hudson and Mr Walton have served be specifically approved by the Board and individual on the Board for more than nine years from the date directors may seek independent advice at the of their first election, but given the nature of the expense of the Company within certain limits.
The Company as an investment trust and the strongly Board has delegated the investment management, independent mindset of the individuals involved, the within clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, Board is firmly of the view that all of the directors can and the administration of the business to Investec be considered to be independent.
In arriving at this Investment Management Limited IIM.
The Board conclusion the Board makes a clear distinction makes all strategic decisions, reviews the between the activities of an investment trust and a performance of the Company at Board meetings conventional trading company.
An investment trust and sets the objectives for the Managers.
Mr G J has no employees or executive directors, the only Allen is the Senior Independent Director.
significant relationship being with the management company.
In overseeing this relationship it is the view The Company Secretary is responsible to the of the Board that long service aids the understanding, Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures judgement, objectivity and independence of the are followed and for compliance with applicable rules directors and in no way detracts from any of these and regulations including the Combined Code.
All of the non-executive directors are, Appointment or removal of the nominated therefore, considered to be independent.
representative of the Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter Re-election of directors for the Board as a whole.
Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and, The content and presentation of Board papers thereafter, are subject to retirement by rotation at circulated before each meeting contain sufficient intervals of no more than three years.
In addition, the information on the financial condition of the Company.
appointment of each director is reviewed by other Key representatives of IIM attend each Board meeting members of the Board every year.
Directors are not, TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 18 Corporate governance continued therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Nonannual accounts are considered and any other executive directors are not appointed for specified meetings that the Committee deem necessary.
Because of the nature of an investment trust Nomination Committee the Board believes that the contribution and A nomination committee has been established to independence of a director is not diminished by long oversee a formal review procedure governing the service and, conversely, that a more detailed appointment of new directors and to evaluate the knowledge of the Company and its business has a overall composition of the Board from time to time, beneficial impact.
taking into account the existing balance of skills and The directors due to stand for annual re-election at knowledge.
During the year it was decided to the forthcoming AGM as per the requirements of the appoint a new director to the Board.
A search Combined Code are Mr Reeve and Mr Walton, both consultant was used to identify suitable candidates having served on the Board for more than nine for review by the Board.
Mr Allen and Mr Jewson are due to retire by The committee is also responsible for assessing the rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles individual performance of directors and for making of Association.
Mr Riley is due to stand for rerecommendations as to whether they should remain election at the AGM, being the first since his in office.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
appointment as a director in September 2004.
The Upon appointment to the Board each director Board has carefully considered the position of each receives relevant background information on the of these directors and believes it would be Company together with a summary of the duties and appropriate for them to be proposed for re-election.
When a director is In arriving at this recommendation the Board is appointed an induction meeting is arranged by the mindful of the fact that three of the directors manager covering details about the Company, its currently on the Board have served for less than four manager, legal responsibilities, investment years.
The Board was, therefore, altered relatively processes and investment trust industry matters.
Furthermore, as stated above, it is the view Directors have also taken part in various training of the Board that long service in no way reduces the specific to non-executive directors, including independence and objectivity of the directors.
Each courses and conferences run by the AITC.
of the directors continues to be effective and to display an undiminished enthusiasm and Board Audit Committee Nomination commitment to the role.
Committee Director ongoing evaluation On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its Chairman performance, together with that of the audit and The Chairman is also non-executive chairman of one nomination committees and the effectiveness and other quoted company and a director of a number of contribution of the individual directors within the other companies.
He does not have a full time context of service on those bodies.
The review executive role in any organisation and the Board is encompasses an assessment of how cohesively satisfied that he has sufficient time available to these bodies work as a whole as well as the discharge fully his responsibility as Chairman of the performance of the individuals within them.
Relations with Shareholders Audit Committee Shareholder relations are given high priority by both The audit committee is a formally constituted the Board and the manager.
The principal medium committee of the Board with defined terms of by which the Company communicates with reference.
It meets twice yearly and among its shareholders is through the interim and annual specific responsibilities are the review of the reports.
The information contained therein is Companys annual and half yearly results together supplemented by regular NAV announcements and with associated documentation and the review of by a monthly factsheet available on the Companys the internal and financial controls applicable to the website.
Each of the non-executive directors is a member of the audit committee and The Board largely delegates responsibility for the Chairman is Mr Allen.
The auditors are invited to communication with shareholders to the attend the audit committee meeting at which the TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 19 Corporate governance continued management company and, through feedback, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a expects to be able to develop an understanding of portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets their views.
The current shareholding constituency of is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian the Company is such that there is only one major with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
All members of the Board are willing to The effectiveness of the overall system of internal meet with shareholders at any time for the purpose control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
of discussing matters in relation to the operation and Such a system can provide only reasonable and not prospects of the Company.
absolute assurance against material misstatement The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM or loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust and encourages questions and discussion on issues framework of internal controls in place to meet the of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In addition, requirements of the Code.
special arrangements have been established to The Board receives reports from its advisers on allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme investors to internal control matters and does not believe that participate fully at annual general meetings.
A there is scope or necessity for an internal audit separate resolution will be proposed at the AGM in function in addition to that employed by the respect of each substantially separate issue.
This matter is subject to periodic review.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the manager Based on the foregoing the Company has a makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the continuing process for identifying, evaluating and key investment issues that face the Company.
managing the risks it faces.
This process has been Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit in place for the reporting period and to the date of The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in documents released by the Company, including the accordance with the requirements of the Internal Annual Report, present a fair and accurate Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined assessment of the Companys position and Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined prospects.
After making enquiries, the directors have a Socially Responsible Investment reasonable expectation that the Company has The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in adequate resources to continue in operational the best financial interests of the Company and its existence for the foreseeable future, including shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility with ethical stance of investee companies on matters HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the directors continue to such as the environment or society as a whole, the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment accounts.
Accordingly, while the Board seeks to favour companies which pursue best The directors are responsible for the Companys practice in these areas this must not be to the system of internal control and for reviewing its detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
In order to facilitate the control process the Board has requested the Managers to Exercise of Voting Rights confirm annually that they have conducted the The Managers have been instructed to vote on Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and behalf of the Company in accordance with regulatory obligations which apply to the Company recommendations put forward by the National and to report on the systems and procedures within Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the Investec which are applicable to the management of Managers wish to vote in a different way to the Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven recommendation of the NAPF this requires the scheduled occasions in each year and at each specific approval of the Board.
meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 20
