TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standard of Corporate Governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for governance of the Companys affairs and this statement describes how the Company has applied the relevant principles.
Compliance with Combined Code June 1998 The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code June 1998 throughout the year ended 30 April 2004.
Compliance with Combined Code July 2003 The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published in July 2003 and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Financial Services Authority Listing Rules require that listed companies report to their shareholders on how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied by the Company.
The Directors of TEMIT have considered the provisions of the Combined Code July 2003 and the AITC Code of Corporate Governance and have taken steps to achieve compliance with all material aspects of these Codes.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the Company, which are designed to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, that the financial information on which the business decisions are made and which are issued for publication is reliable, and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
The Combined Code also requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Directors, through the procedures outlined below, have kept procedures under review throughout the period covered by these financial statements and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review.
This accords with the guidance in Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness and believes that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
Process of Board Evaluation The Board is introducing a process of self-evaluation so that a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors occurs.
The evaluation is to be carried out by each of the Directors completing an annual Board Evaluation Questionnaire, which covers various areas including, Board Meeting processes, Composition of the Board, Culture, Continuing Professional Development & Training, Board Communication, Remuneration & Executive Contract Issues and Audit Issues.
The Chairman will follow up the Board Evaluation Questionnaire with each Director so that the Board can focus on its goals going forward for the forthcoming year and identify potential areas of additional contribution by each Director.
Induction of new directors and training The Board are taking steps to ensure that new directors are provided with the necessary background materials and training to bring them up to date with the workings of the Company, its unique structure and investment process.
A review is being undertaken of ongoing training requirements for all Board members.
All directors are participating in training on their legal responsibilities as investment trust directors and the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
34 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Directors The Board currently comprises eight Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the management group.
The Chairman is Non-Executive and independent from the management.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee have been asked to recommend to the Board a Senior Independent Director to be appointed later in the year.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 5 to 9.
Following the Annual General Meeting, assuming shareholder approval to the director elections and re-elections, only one non-independent director will remain on the Board to ensure full compliance with the Board composition requirements under the Listing Rules.
The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of Templeton Asset Management Ltd. the Investment Manager.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board has contractually delegated the day-to-day administration and management of the Companys investments to the management team of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited and Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Each of these contracts is only entered into after proper consideration of the quality and cost of services.
The Directors are authorised to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board established a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in February 2002, which currently comprises Sir Ronald Hampel Chairman, Nicholas F Brady and Geoffrey A Langlands.
The role of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
To date, no external agencies or advertising has been used in the recruitment process for new candidates to the Board because of the specialised nature of the investment trust director role.
In addition, the Committee reviews the Investment Managers fees and the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
All Directors serving longer than nine years as well as Directors over the age of 70 offer themselves for annual re-election.
Accountability and Audit In 1994 the Board established an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Smith Chairman, Peter C Godsoe and Andrew S B Knight.
The audit committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment and remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are being updated to reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code.
35 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole, be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are currently determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
Proxy Voting As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to vote its shares of the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
Contact with Shareholders At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, the investment manager, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders throughout the year to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
