Corporate Governance Background In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to directors also attend a number of informal meetings to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied represent the interests of the Group.
with the provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the Throughout the year under review the Code in force was purchase and sale of individual investments, and also the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all the London Stock Exchange in 1998: this statement relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
refers principally to that Code.
A revised Combined Code Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each on Corporate Governance was issued by the Financial Board meeting enabling the directors to probe further on Reporting Council in July 2003 and is effective for matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board addition, the AITC Code of Corporate Governance was have been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent in July 2003 and updated in January 2004.
The Board has professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The commenced a review of the additional requirements of directors have access to the advice and services of the both documents.
corporate company secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Application of the Codes Principles that Board procedures are followed.
The Board attaches great importance to the matters set out in the Code.
It should be noted that, as an investment trust, When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a most of the Companys day to day responsibilities are training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
delegated to third parties and the directors are all nonDirectors are also provided, on a regular basis, with key executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code are information on the Companys policies, regulatory and directly applicable to the Company.
statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board The Board and Committees as they arise.
The Board currently consists of five non-executive directors, all of whom are deemed to be independent of Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to Henderson Global Investors Limited the Investment re-election and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
Their biographies, on page 21, demonstrate a accordance with the Companys articles of association, new breadth of investment, property and professional directors stand for election at the first Annual General experience.
Meeting following their appointment and every director stands for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The Board meets at least six times a year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including The Chairman is a non-executive director.
A senior the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the non-executive director has not been identified as the Board review of investment performance.
The number of formal considers that all the directors have different qualities and meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee held during areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues the financial year, and the attendance of individual directors, arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
are shown below: Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee with Meetings Board Audit defined terms of reference and duties.
of meetings in the year 6 2 Committee is set out on page 21.
A Ross Goobey 6 2 C M Burton 5 2 The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of the J H M Newsum 4 1 annual report and the interim report, the nature and scope P L Salsbury 6 2 R A Stone 6 2 of the external audit and the findings therefrom, and the 26 TR Property Investment Trust Corporate Governance continued terms of appointment of the auditors, including their into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the remuneration and the provision of any non-audit services by quality and cost of the services offered, including the control them.
It also meets with representatives of the Investment systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of Manager and receives reports on the quality and the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular effectiveness of the accounting records and management reports from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information maintained on behalf of the Company.
information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the The Board has decided not to establish a Nominations investment trust companies managed by the Investment Committee, and has disestablished the Management Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry Engagement Committee.
The functions of both Committees matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
will be carried out by the full Board as part of the agendas of normal board meetings.
The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable assurance on the Directors Remuneration effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration and its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk Committee.
Since the Company is an investment trust department on an ongoing basis.
company and all its directors are non-executive, the Internal Control Company is not required to comply with the provisions of the The Board has established an ongoing process for Code in respect of the remuneration of executive directors.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Directors fees are detailed in the Remuneration Report set faced by the Company.
This process is subject to regular out on page 22. review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Relations with Shareholders Guidance for Directors on the Code published in September The Investment Manager has an ongoing programme of 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
The process was fully in meetings with major shareholders and matters raised at place up to the date of approval of this annual report and these meetings are reported to the Board.
has operated throughout the year under review.
In addition the Board has conducted its annual review of the The Board considers that shareholders should be effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General covering all the controls, including financial, operational and Meeting.
This is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and compliance controls and risk management.
This review took attended by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the into account points raised during the year in the Boards remaining directors.
Details of the proxy votes received in regular appraisal of specific areas of risk.
respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
Representatives of the Investment Manager The Board is responsible for the Companys system of make a presentation to the meeting.
The Company has internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, adopted a nominee share code which is set out on page 51. such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business Accountability and Audit objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute A Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accounts is set out on page 28.
The Report of the Independent Auditors is set out on page 29.
The Board has The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook delegated contractually to external agencies, including the a full review of the Companys business risks and these are Investment Manager, the management of the investment analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The Board receives portfolio, the custodial services which include the each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report safeguarding of the assets, the day-to-day accounting, which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, company secretarial and administration requirements and the including those that are not directly the responsibility of the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered Investment Manager, and which reports the details of any TR Property Investment Trust 27
