Corporate Governance Background investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose with an international perspective.
how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the most the Code.
important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the monitoring of investment strategy, the Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the review of investment performance and the extent to which Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 which is effective for to the Board for the overall management of the Company.
His financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In duties include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, addition, the AITC Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and Association of Investment Trust Companies in July 2003, applies their terms of reference, on the use of derivatives and for all other to the Company the AITC Code.
aspects of the Companys affairs, including shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust industry matters, administration and Application of the Principles of the Code the remaining unquoted investments.
The Chief Executive officer The Company is committed to high standards of corporate reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set conrmation from each of the investment managers that they out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their investment trust company, most of the Companys day to day investment mandates and conrmation that the Boards responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all but one of investment limits and restrictions have been adhered to, including the directors are non-executive.
those which govern the Companys tax status as an investment trust.
The investment managers take decisions as to the purchase The Board and sale of individual investments and are responsible for effecting The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
those decisions on the best available terms.
The Chairman is Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of prudent and responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
manner, with management, regulatory and financial information that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the Executive officer or otherwise.
Companys memorandum and articles of association, and to such approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required Representatives of the investment managers attend Board from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in meetings on a regular basis, enabling the directors to monitor the place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
management of the Companys assets, to seek clarification on specic issues or to probe further on any points of concern.
The Board currently consists of eight directors, the majority of Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board have whom are independent of Henderson Global Investors Limited been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in which was the Companys Manager for the first eight months of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional the year under review and remains one of the Companys advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The directors investment managers and all of whom are independent of the have access to the advice and services of the corporate company Companys five new investment managers.
With the sole secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible exception of the Chief Executive officer, the directors are all to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Their biographical details, set out on page 2 and When a director is appointed he or she is offered a tailored expanded on pages 20 and 21, demonstrate a breadth of introductory programme.
Directors are also provided, on a 26 regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead when regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
In addition the Board has appointed separate Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the chairmen to lead its two permanent committees.
Accordingly, Board as they arise.
Directors are encouraged to attend suitable any concerns can be conveyed to the director most qualied to training courses on an ongoing basis at the Companys expense.
Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election Board Committees and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Companys articles of association, new directors stand for The dened terms of reference of both committees were revised election at the first annual general meeting following their during the year.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility appointment.
The Board has agreed that every director will stand for the duties of the former Nominations Committee.
The duties for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The of the former Management Engagement Committee are now the Boards report on the independence of the directors is set out on responsibility of the Chief Executive officer.
The membership of pages 20 and 21. the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 2 and 21.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of Audit Committee new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to The Committee comprises three non-executive directors replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms The Committee was reconstituted in July 2004 and with its of time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current smaller membership held one meeting, at which representatives experience of various areas, the most important skill-sets being of the auditors were present, before the end of the year.
Its investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk programme is to meet at least three times a year: in advance of management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
the publication of both the annual and the interim results and on at least one other occasion with an agenda that is focused on The Boards procedure in 2004 for evaluating the performance its broader responsibilities.
of the Board, its Committees and the individual directors was by means of individual meetings of the Chairman with each The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors in of the directors.
A meeting of the directors was then held, applying financial reporting and internal control principles and to without the Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The evaluation process is designed to show whether individual directors continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the clarify the strengths and weaknesses of the Boards composition Companys financial statements, including consideration of the and processes.
The Chairman is taking the lead in acting on the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting results of the evaluation process, mindful of the requirement to judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial controls refresh the composition of the Board from time to time without and risk management systems.
It reviews the scope and reducing the stability, sense of purpose and effectiveness of the effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the auditors Board that was highlighted by the evaluation process.
It makes recommendations in relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including their The Chairman of the Company is an independent director.
A remuneration and the provision by them of any non-audit services.
senior non-executive director has not been identied as the The Committee has established a procedure to ensure that the Board considers that, by design, the directors have different engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services cannot 27 Corporate Governance continued exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees without due with shareholders, investors and analysts and from the consideration being given by the Committee to the proposed Companys stockbrokers on contact it has with shareholders and appointment.
The Committee also reviews major contracts investors.
The Chairman, and other members of the Board if undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment restrictions requested, expect to be available to talk to major shareholders.
and the values attributed to the unquoted investments.
It reviews the Companys policy on matters of corporate social responsibility The Board considers that the annual general meeting should and the exercise of voting rights.
It ensures that the Company provide an effective forum for individual investors to maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of communicate with the directors.
The annual general meeting is regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee also expect Remuneration Committee to be present and able to answer questions from shareholders as The Committee comprises three non-executive directors appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief The Committee was reconstituted in July 2004 and held one Executive officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The meeting before the end of the year.
Its programme is to meet at Company has adopted a nominee share code which is set out least once a year, in advance of the year end, and on other on page 50. occasions as necessary.
Accountability and Audit The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the review the Companys remuneration policy, to establish the accounts is set out on page 30. incentive arrangements for and to evaluate the performance of the Chief Executive officer, to assess the effectiveness of the Board and The report of the independent auditors is set out on page 31. to consider the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and for The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, proposing nominations for appointment to it.
Each director is including the six investment managers, the management of the invited to submit nominations and external advisers may be used investment portfolio, global custody which includes the to identify or assess potential candidates.
The nominations list is safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, considered by the Board as a whole, although the Chairman would management and financial accounting, company secretarial and not expect to be involved in the selection of his successor.
certain other administration requirements and the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and No Board appointments were made during the year but the directors proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the are reviewing the skills and experience required of potential new services offered, including the control systems in operation in so directors and expect to make an appointment in due course.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the investment Directors Remuneration managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors the Board from its other contractors as required.
Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25.
Internal Control Relations with Shareholders The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Board seeks to develop an understanding of the views of the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the major shareholders by receiving reports from the Chief Executive Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is officer and the Marketing Director on meetings that they have subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully 28 in place during the year under review and up to the date of this custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys administrators is responsible for investment administration, for system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of maintaining accounting records and for preparing financial the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, accounts, management accounts and other management including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk information.
The investment performance of the investment management systems.
This review took into account points raised managers, both individually and collectively, is measured by an during the year in the regular appraisal of specic areas of risk.
The corporate company secretary is a However, such a system is designed to manage rather than company with long experience in servicing investment trusts.
eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business The appointment of these and other professional contractors objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal assurance against material misstatement or loss.
controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to provide During the year the Board undertook a full review of the assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an a risk map.
The Board receives each quarter from its main internal audit is needed.
contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any Going Concern known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are from its UK based investment managers and its investment readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate administrator reports on their internal controls FRAG 21 type financial resources to continue in operational existence for the reports, each of which includes a report from the relevant foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system preparing the accounts.
of internal control and risk management into the operations and culture of the Company and of its key suppliers.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Board has approved a corporate governance voting policy with The Company did not during the year have a formal policy for all of its investment managers which, in the view of the Board, staff to raise in confidence any concerns about possible balances current best practice with the underlying investment improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or management philosophies of the investment managers.
otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises only three people including the Chief Executive Statement of Compliance officer, all of whom are well known to and have frequent and The directors consider that the Company has complied during informal contact with the members of the Board.
the year ended 31 December 2004 with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code, with the exception that the The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It Board has not appointed a senior independent director Code delegates to third parties the management of its investments Provision A.
3.3 and did not during the year have formal and most of its other operations and employs only a very arrangements for the staff to raise in confidence concerns about small staff.
The investment managers and certain other key possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting or other contractors are subject to external regulation and most have matters Code Provision C. 3.4.
The directors also consider compliance and internal audit functions of their own.
The that the Company has complied throughout the year ended Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global 31 December 2004 with the AITC Code.
