qxd 13 3 05 12:12 pm Page 24 Directors report continued Each year, a Sharesave scheme enables eligible UK employees to Auditors acquire shares in the company at the end of a threeor five-year  LLP have expressed their willingness saving period.
A total of 13,456 employees participate in the scheme.
to be reappointed as auditors of the company.
Upon the The company also operates a share incentive plan, which recommendation of the audit committee, a resolution to reappoint enables eligible UK employees to buy Centrica shares, subject them as the companys auditors and authorise the directors to to monthly limits, out of pre-tax pay.
In addition, the company determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
awards one free matching share for every two shares an employee buys, subject to a monthly limit of 20 matching shares.
A total of 5,435 employees participate in the plan.
Corporate governance In North America, the group operates an employee share purchase plan, which allows eligible Canadian and US employees to buy Centrica shares, subject to monthly limits, out of after-tax The group is committed to the highest standards of corporate pay.
In addition, after two years, the company awards one free governance.
During 2003, the board reviewed its governance matching share for every two purchased shares held.
A total of arrangements in the light of the new Combined Code on 796 employees participate in the plan.
Corporate Governance the Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees the Smith Report and made changes as necessary Corporate responsibility and appropriate at the time.
Although the company did not fully Information relating to the groups impact on society, the economy comply with all the provisions of the Code throughout 2004, and the wider environment is given on pages 15 to 18.
A separate further governance changes were approved by the board in the corporate responsibility report will be published in April and will year that will ensure full compliance throughout 2005 and beyond.
also be available on the companys website www.
The changes made in 2004 and details of non-compliance during the year are explained below together with a report on how the Charitable and political donations principles of the Code were applied.
An outline of the groups involvement in the community appears on pages 17 to 18.
Charitable donations in the UK during the year The board amounted to 5.8 million 2003: 5.3 million.
In line with group An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
In the The board, which met 11 times during the year, has a schedule normal course of business, Centrica has paid for its management of matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule and the terms to attend events at which politicians and other opinion-formers of reference for the board committees have been made available have been present but does not consider these payments to be on request throughout the year and, since December 2004, on political donations.
Share capital The board is responsible for: The companys authorised and issued share capital as the development of strategy and major policies: at 31 December 2004, together with details of the share the review of management performance: consolidation conducted in October 2004 and shares issued and the approval of the annual operating plan, the financial repurchased during the year, is set out in note 20 on page 54. statements and major acquisitions and disposals: the system of internal control: and Authority to purchase shares corporate governance.
The directors were authorised at the 2004 AGM to purchase the One of its meetings each year is substantially devoted to companys own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the development of strategy.
Comprehensive briefing papers, the articles of association.
A share repurchase programme of up including financial information, are circulated to each director one to 500 million was announced on 1 July 2004 and commenced week prior to board meetings.
A procedure is in place for directors on 9 August.
The authority to purchase the companys own shares to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their was renewed at the extraordinary general meeting EGM held on duties.
They also have access to the advice and services of the 21 October 2004.
The directors will seek to renew their authority general counsel and company secretary.
Overall attendance at meetings during 2004 was: 97% for the A total of 84,875,000 shares were repurchased and cancelled board Helen Alexander, Paul Rayner and Paul Walsh each having during the year for an aggregate consideration of 205 million.
given their apologies in respect of one meeting : 100% for the audit This comprised 1.32% of the issued share capital from committee: 90% for the remuneration committee Helen Alexander 9 August 2004 until the share consolidation on 25 October 2004 and Paul Rayner each having given their apologies in respect of one 5 56.5 million shares of 5 9 pence each for a consideration of meeting : and 100% for the nominations committee.
138.2 million and 0.75% of the issued share capital from that 14 date until the end of the year 28.3 million shares of 6 81 pence Board membership each for a consideration of 66.5 million.
Between 1 January The names of the directors and their details, including the board 2005 and 21 February 2005, a further 19,670,500 shares of committees on which they serve, appear on page 22.
There is a 14 6 81 pence each were repurchased and cancelled for an clear division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief aggregate consideration of 45 million.
It is intended that further executive, which has been formalised in writing and agreed by shares will be repurchased under the programme during the the board: and there is a balance of executive and independent current financial period see note 30 on page 72. non-executive directors.
Throughout the year, the chairman both former and Material shareholdings current and the other non-executive directors were independent At 21 February 2005, the following material shareholdings were of management.
In December 2004, as part of its annual recorded in the register maintained in accordance with the review of corporate governance, the board considered the Companies Act 1985: independence of the non-executive directors other than the chairman against the criteria in the Code and determined that each was independent.
Legal & General Group 155,248,806 4.13% Roger Carr was determined as being independent by Lloyds TSB Group 139,775,319 3.72% the board prior to his appointment as chairman in May 2004.
qxd 13 3 05 12:12 pm Page 25 Throughout the year, the senior independent director was Executive committee Patricia Mann.
Her responsibilities include being available to The executive committee comprises the executive directors, the shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the general counsel and company secretary, the managing director normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact of Centrica North America and the group human resources is inappropriate.
All of the independent non-executive directors director.
It is chaired by Sir Roy Gardner.
It meets weekly to are members of the audit and remuneration committees, as the oversee the management of the group and is the decision-making board believes that each of them adds value to the business body for those matters not reserved to the board and within the of those committees.
This membership structure gives the limits set out in the groups delegated authority and expenditure non-executive directors detailed insight into the nature of the control policies.
matters being discussed, brings continuity to membership and There are four sub-committees of the executive committee: avoids undue reliance on particular individuals.
Immediately the group risk management committee: the group financial risk prior to his appointment as chairman, Roger Carr resigned from management committee: the corporate responsibility committee: membership of those committees although he attended their and the health, safety and environment committee.
The former chairman of the company membership of these committees is drawn from among the was a member of both the audit and remuneration committees executive directors and senior management.
until his retirement in May 2004.
Accordingly, during the period January to May 2004, the composition of those committees Audit committee was not fully compliant with the Code requirement that all the From January to May 2004, the committee comprised the former members should be independent non-executive directors.
chairman of the company and the independent non-executive Throughout the year, the non-executive directors, including directors.
During that period the committee was chaired by the chairman, met independently of management on a regular Roger Carr.
Immediately prior to his appointment as chairman of basis.
To ensure compliance with the Code, arrangements have the company in May 2004, Roger Carr stood down as a member been made, from 2005, for the senior independent director of the audit committee.
The July 2004 audit committee was to chair a meeting of the independent non-executive directors chaired by Paul Walsh.
Mary Francis and Paul Rayner became in the absence of the chairman to appraise the chairmans members of the committee upon their respective appointments performance.
In 2004, the chairmans performance was to the board.
The board was of the view throughout the year that, appraised as part of the board evaluation process see below.
collectively, the members of the audit committee had appropriate financial experience.
However, the Code provision requiring at Board appointments, evaluation and training least one member of the committee to have recent and relevant There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the financial experience was only strictly satisfied upon the appointment of new directors to the board.
This is described appointment in September of Paul Rayner, a finance director in the section on the nominations committee below.
All directors of a FTSE 100 company.
Paul Rayner was appointed chairman joining the board are required to submit themselves for election of the committee in November 2004. at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, they The audit committee, which reports its findings to the board, are subject to re-election every third year.
The non-executive is authorised to: directors are initially appointed for a three-year term and, subject monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial to review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three statements, including a review of significant financial reporting such terms.
The names of the directors subject to re-election judgements contained in them: appear on page 23. review the companys internal financial controls and internal During the year, the board conducted, with the assistance control and risk management systems: of an independent external facilitator, Spencer Stuart, a formal monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its audit function: and committees and individual directors, including the chairman.
establish and oversee the companys relationship with the The process involved the facilitator meeting separately with each external auditors, including the monitoring of their of the directors and the general counsel and company secretary.
The output from those interviews was compiled into a report In 2004, the audit committee met four times and discharged its prepared by the facilitator and presented to the board at its responsibilities, as set out in its terms of reference, by receiving meeting in July.
At that meeting, a number of recommendations comprehensive reports from the director of business assurance, to address the issues raised by the board evaluation process other senior management and the external auditors.
The committee was presented by the chairman and discussed and endorsed commissioned further reports in response to developing issues, by the board.
Subsequently, the chairman acted upon all as appropriate.
At two of its meetings, the committee met with of the recommendations endorsed by the board.
The board the external auditors in the absence of the director of business intends to conduct a further evaluation of its performance assurance and other management.
The issues discussed by during 2005. the committee and the conclusions reached are reported by the The directors receive ongoing training including an committee chairman to the next board meeting.
induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the Note 4 v to the financial statements on page 45 sets individual.
The directors also receive regular updates on out the groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major changes and developments to the business, legislative consultancies and advisory projects.
The board has approved and regulatory environments.
policies that restrict the types of non-audit work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and restrict the employment Board committees by the group of former employees of the external audit firms.
The board has delegated authority to a number of committees The award of non-audit work within categories that the external to deal with specific aspects of the management and control of auditors are permitted to carry out under the board approved the group.
These committees have specific terms of reference policies is subject to pre-clearance by the audit committee if available on www.
com and meet on a regular basis.
the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
All non-audit assignments The minutes of the meetings of these committees are made awarded to the external auditors are reported to the audit available to all the directors on a timely basis.
During the year, committee on a quarterly basis, along with a full breakdown the activities of the customer service committee were assumed of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
