qxd 13 3 05 12:12 pm Page 26 Directors report continued As a matter of best practice and in accordance with auditing Shareholders can register to receive all their communications standard 610, the external auditors have held discussions with online, benefiting both themselves and the company.
the audit committee on the subject of auditor independence The company also holds regular meetings with its major and have confirmed their independence in writing.
The chairman attends the meetings at which the preliminary and interim results are presented to major investors Remuneration committee and analysts.
In the six-month period following his appointment From January to April 2004, the remuneration committee as chairman of the company, Roger Carr met with a number of comprised the former chairman of the company and the major institutional shareholders to gain a first-hand understanding independent non-executive directors.
Immediately prior to his of any issues or concerns they may have had.
The chairman appointment as chairman of the company in May 2004, Roger reported his findings to the board on an ongoing basis.
This Carr stood down as a member of the committee.
The committee was in addition to the formal reports of investor feedback that met four times during 2004 and was chaired throughout the year are presented to the board at least twice a year.
The board has by Patricia Mann.
The role of this committee and details of how commissioned an independent survey of shareholder opinion the company applies the principles of the Code in respect of for 2005. directors remuneration are set out on pages 27 to 33.
Internal control Nominations committee The board of directors is responsible for the groups system The nominations committee comprises Helen Alexander, of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than Sir Roy Gardner, Patricia Mann, Paul Walsh and Roger Carr, who eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and has chaired it since his appointment as chairman of the company can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance in May 2004.
Prior to that, the committee was chaired by Sir against material misstatement or loss.
The composition of the committee was not fully compliant with the Code requirement for a majority of its members Identification, assessment and management of risks to be independent non-executive directors until the appointment The company places great importance on internal control of Paul Walsh in December 2004. and risk management.
A risk-aware and control-conscious The committee makes recommendations to the board for environment is promoted and encouraged throughout the group.
the appointment of replacement or additional directors.
The The board, either directly or through its committees, sets nominations committee is also responsible for succession objectives, performance targets and policies for management planning and board evaluation.
of key risks facing the group.
These include strategic planning, In 2003, the committee considered the succession to acquisitions, political and regulatory, investments, expenditure Sir Michael Perry as chairman of the company as described in the control, treasury, social, environmental and ethical, health and 2003 corporate governance report.
It concluded that Roger Carr safety, trading and customer service.
At each of its four meetings was the most appropriate person to succeed Sir Michael Perry as in 2004, the audit committee received a comprehensive internal chairman of the company, having sought and received assurance control report, which allowed it to track a number of issues and that he had sufficient time available to devote to the position.
The chairman of the In 2004, the committee met five times and considered the audit committee reported the issues discussed and conclusions reappointment of directors retiring by rotation at the AGM, the board reached at the following board meeting.
evaluation process described above, succession planning and the Across the group, each business has a risk management appointment of additional executive and non-executive directors.
committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the The committee regularly reviews the balance of skills, management of operational risks.
In addition, the group risk knowledge and experience on the board against current and management committee considers the risks that might affect future requirements of the company and, as appropriate, draws the company at group level.
The processes of newly acquired up a list of required attributes.
Following the publication of the companies are integrated with those of the group.
Centrica Code in 2003, the committee was mindful of the requirement that Storage, which is subject to undertakings given to the Secretary at least one member of the audit committee should have recent of State for Trade and Industry, operates separately but to the and relevant financial experience.
The search for an appropriate same standards of internal control and risk management as the individual was undertaken as a priority, leading to the appointment rest of the group.
of Paul Rayner in September 2004.
External search consultants were engaged in connection with Assurance the appointment of the new chairman and non-executive directors.
The business assurance function undertakes internal audit reviews according to a plan approved by the audit committee.
Relations with shareholders The results of their work are reported to the audit committee The company has a programme of communication with its on a quarterly basis.
As well as share price information, news releases and the annual report, the Centrica website includes speeches The boards review of the system of internal control from the AGM, presentations to the investment community and The board of directors, with the advice of the audit committee, a section for shareholder services.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system The board believes that the AGM presents an important operated described above throughout the period from opportunity for dialogue with private shareholders, many of 1 January 2004 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the whom are also customers.
At the AGM, the chairman and the group complies with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
chief executive present a review of the businesses of the group.
Representatives from across the group are available to answer Going concern questions both before and after the meeting.
After making enquiries, the board has a reasonable expectation All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes that the company has adequate resources to continue in at the AGM by proxy, by post or via the internet.
Shareholders operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, who hold their shares within Crest can cast their votes by proxy we continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the using the Crest electronic proxy appointment service.
financial statements, which are shown on pages 36 to 78.
