AstraZeneca Annual Report and Audit Committees Report 58 Form 20-F Information 2004 Audit Committees Report The Audit Committee is also charged The members of the Audit Committee performed by the external auditor during are John Buchanan Chairman of the with promptly bringing to the attention the year, subject to fee limits agreed with Committee, Jane Henney, Dame Bridget of the Board: the Audit Committee in advance.
The Group Ogilvie, Marcus Wallenberg and Michele Financial Controller and the Director of Hooper.
Dr Buchanan succeeded Karl von Any significant concerns of the external Group Tax monitor the status of all services der Heyden as Chairman of the Audit auditor about the conduct, results or being provided by the external auditor.
Committee following Mr von der Heydens overall outcome of the annual audit The procedures also deal with the placing retirement from the Board in April 2004. of the Company.
of non-audit work out for tender, where Ms Hooper was appointed as a member appropriate.
Authority to approve work of the Audit Committee with effect from Any significant concerns of the Chief in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is the end of the AGM in April 2004.
They Internal Auditor about the conduct, delegated to the Chairman of the Audit are all Non-Executive Directors.
With the results or outcome of internal audits.
Committee in the first instance.
Regular exception of Mr Wallenberg for the reasons reports to the full Audit Committee are also explained in the Directors Report, the Any matters which may significantly provided for and, in practice, a standing Board considers them all to be independent affect or impair the independence agenda item at Audit Committee meetings under the UK Combined Code.
Marcus of the external auditor.
covers the operation of the pre-approval Wallenberg, although not independent procedures.
under the UK Combined Code, is Any significant deficiencies or material independent under the criteria of the weaknesses in the design or operation The full remit of the Audit Committee is NYSE's corporate governance listing of the Companys internal control over available on the Companys website: standards concerning the composition financial reporting.
Any significant deficiencies or material The Audit Committee met six times in 2004.
The Board remains satisfied that various weaknesses in the design or operation Each meeting was attended by all of its members of the Audit Committee have of the Companys other internal controls members except that Mr Wallenberg was recent and relevant financial experience.
and any significant breaches of those unable to attend part of the December At its meeting in December 2004, the internal controls.
meeting due to a prior engagement.
At the Board determined that Dr Buchanan and invitation of the Audit Committee, the Ms Hooper are audit committee financial Any serious issues of non-compliance.
Chairman of the Board, a Non-Executive experts for the purposes of the US Director, attended three of its meetings in Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The Audit Committee also oversees the 2004.
The Audit Committee is currently establishment, implementation and scheduled to meet seven times in 2005.
The core remit of the Audit Committee is maintenance of the Code of Conduct.
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings to review and report to the Board on: It establishes procedures for the receipt are circulated to all Board members.
and handling of complaints concerning The scope of and plans for audits of accounting or audit matters.
It also appoints During the year, in line with its normal the Company by the external auditor and agrees the compensation for the practice, the Audit Committee also held and the internal audit function.
external auditor subject, in each case, a number of private meetings, without to the approval of the Companys management present, with both the The implementation of the external shareholders at a general meeting and, Companys Chief Internal Auditor and the and internal audit plans and the if necessary, recommends to the Board lead partner from the Companys external handling of any material issues arising that a resolution be proposed at a general audit firm.
The purpose of these meetings from those audits.
meeting of the Company authorising the was to facilitate free and open discussions removal of the external auditor.
Additionally, between the Audit Committee members The Companys overall framework for the Audit Committee reviews and approves and the Chief Internal Auditor and the internal control over financial reporting the appointment and any dismissal of the external lead audit partner separately from and its financial reporting processes.
the main sessions of the Audit Committee, which were attended by the Chief Financial The Companys overall framework The Audit Committee maintains policies Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
and procedures for the pre-approval of all audit services and permitted non-audit During 2004, the business considered The Companys overall framework services undertaken by the external auditor.
and discussed by the Audit Committee for risk management with particular The principal purpose of these policies included: emphasis on financial risks.
and procedures is to ensure that the independence of the external auditor is The financial disclosures contained The accounting policies and practices not impaired.
In January 2004, the Audit in the Companys annual and quarterly of the Company.
Committee renewed its pre-approval reports to shareholders and other policies and procedures.
The annual and quarterly financial three categories of work audit services, reporting carried out by the Company.
audit-related services and tax services.
Various accounting matters, including The policies define the type of work which the Companys critical accounting falls within each of these categories, as policies, raised by management and well as those non-audit services which the external auditor in the context of the the external auditor is prohibited from financial disclosures.
Specific examples performing under the rules of the US SEC.
of areas reviewed by the Audit The pre-approval procedures permit certain Committee included the reporting of the audit, audit-related and tax services to be effect of wholesaler stock movements in AstraZeneca Annual Report and Audit Committees Report Form 20-F Information 2004 59 Areview at the beginning of 2004 of the Companys financial disclosures, During 2004, the Companys US business the implementation of Inventory the performance of the external auditor and its facility at Dunkirk in France Management Agreements with a which resulted in the Audit Committee successfully implemented major new number of wholesalers in the US, the unanimously recommending that a accounting software.
Other than this, there handling of managed care rebates resolution for the re-appointment of was no change in the Companys internal and product returns in the US, and the KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys control over financial reporting that effect of currency exchange rates on external auditor be proposed to occurred during the period covered by this the Companys financial statements.
shareholders at the AGM in April 2004.
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information that has materially affected, or is reasonably Reports from the external auditor Areview of the performance of the likely to materially affect, the Companys concerning its audit of the financial internal audit function and, in particular, internal control over financial reporting.
recruitment and career development plans for internal audit staff.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Reports from management on the Dr J G S Buchanan Companys general risk profile and the Areport from the Development Non-Executive Director and assessment and management of risk.
function concerning the Companys Chairman of the Audit Committee clinical development programmes 27 January 2005 Reports from management, the internal and the key risks managed by the audit function and the external auditor drug safety and quality management on the effectiveness of the Companys teams within Development.
system of internal controls and, in particular, internal financial controls.
Areport from the Director of Group These included a review and discussion Tax about the Companys approach of the results of the Companys letter to risk management in relation to of assurance process for 2004 and taxation matters.
reviews of quarterly activity reports from the internal audit function and the status The amount of audit and non-audit of follow-up actions with management.
fees of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout Areport of calls made by employees the year that the objectivity and to the Companys Code of Conduct independence of the external auditor helpline seeking guidance on corporate were not in any way impaired by either responsibility issues or raising concerns the nature of the non-audit work and the results of the reviews of these undertaken by the external auditor matters.
To date, no material issues during the year, the level of non-audit have been identified through this route.
fees charged for such work or any other facts or circumstances.
Full details of Areview of the Companys preparations the audit and non-audit fees for the year for the adoption in 2005 of International are disclosed in Note 32 to the Financial Accounting Standards International Statements.
Financial Reporting Standards, including the approval of proposed The Companys continuing work to changes to certain of the Companys comply with the applicable provisions accounting policies.
The Audit of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Committee also reviewed and approved The Audit Committee regularly the Companys publication in October reviewed, in particular, the Companys 2004 of its financial information for 2003 work to prepare for the implementation and the first half of 2004 re-stated in in 2005 of section 404 of the Act accordance with IAS IFRS subject to concerning internal control over any subsequent changes made to the financial reporting.
Areview and assessment of how the Continuing review of the Companys Audit Committee operates.
US sales and marketing compliance programme, including the five year At the scheduled meeting of the Audit Corporate Integrity Agreement Committee held at the end of January 2005, between the Company and the the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Office of Inspector General for Officer presented to the Audit Committee the US Department of Health and their conclusions following the evaluation of Human Services signed in 2003. the effectiveness of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures Proposals from the internal audit required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F as at 31 function and the external auditor about December 2004.
Based on their evaluation, their audit programmes for 2004. the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at that date, the Company maintains an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures.
