52 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Corporate governance BTs policy is to achieve best practice in our standards Board is kept properly informed, is consulted on all of business integrity in all our operations.
This includes issues reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a commitment to maintaining the highest standards of a timely and considered way that enables the directors corporate governance and ethics throughout the to full their duciary duties.
that the views of the shareholders are known to the The company took part in the consultations Board and considered appropriately.
He represents the leading up to the publication in July 2003 of the UKs company in specified strategic and Government new Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
BT is relationships, as agreed with the Chief Executive, and obliged this year to report on how it has applied the generally acts as the bridge between the Board and the previous version of the Combined Code.
The directors Companys executive team, particularly on the Groups consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied broad strategic direction.
The Chief Executive has final with the provisions of that version of the Code.
This executive responsibility to the Board for the success of section also reports on BTs position in respect of the the group.
provisions introduced by the new Combined Code.
The The Secretary manages the provision of timely, company will report fully on its compliance with the accurate and considered information to the Board for new Code next year.
its meetings and, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at other appropriate times.
He The Board recommends to the Chairman and the Chief Executive, Composition and role for Board consideration where appropriate, the The Board, which operates as a single team, is companys corporate governance policies and practices currently made up of the part-time Chairman, the and is responsible for their communication and Chief Executive, four other executive directors and implementation.
All of the non-executive directors meet the criteria for independence set out in BTs non-executive directors the new Combined Code and are therefore considered The desired combination of experience, skills and other by the Board to be independent.
It is BTs policy that attributes that the non-executive directors as a whole the Board will comprise a majority of independent nonare to bring to the Board is agreed and reviewed by executive directors.
The directors biographies are set the Nominating Committee.
This prole is used by the out on pages 49 and 50.
Committee to assess the suitability as non-executive The Boards principal focus is the overall strategic directors of candidates put forward by the directors direction, development and control of the group.
In and outside consultants before the Committee meets support of this the Board approves the groups values, short-listed candidates and goes on to recommend to business practice policies, strategic plans, annual the Board a candidate for appointment.
budget, capital expenditure and investments budgets, The non-executive directors provide a strong, larger capital expenditure proposals and the groups independent element on the Board.
Between them, overall system of internal controls, governance and they bring experience and independent judgement, compliance authorities.
It also has oversight and gained at the most senior levels, of international control of the groups operating and financial business operations and strategy, marketing, performance.
These responsibilities are set out in a technology, communications and political and formal statement of the Boards role which is available international affairs.
The Chairman and the nonon the companys website.
The Board has agreed the executive directors hold regular dinners at which they groups corporate governance framework, as part of discuss matters without the executive directors being which it has empowered the companys key present.
At least annually, these provide an occasion management committee, the Operating Committee, to for the non-executive directors, led by the Deputy make decisions on operational and other matters.
The Chairman, Sir Anthony Greener, to meet, without the roles and powers of these committees are set out later Chairman present to review the Chairmans in this report under Principal Board committees.
powers and the authorities delegated to individual Sir Anthony Greener, the Deputy Chairman, is the members of the Operating Committee are available to senior independent director.
He chairs the Audit and everyone in the group on the groups intranet site.
In his capacity as the The Board meets every month, except in August.
chairman of the Remuneration Committee, he meets Additionally, it meets on an ad hoc basis to consider with BTs major institutional shareholders.
The Deputy matters which are time critical.
The Board met 11 Chairman also continues to be available to discuss times during the 2004 financial year.
matters with institutional shareholders where it would The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive be inappropriate for those discussions to take place are set out in written job descriptions.
In addition to with either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
He chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for will also attend, at his discretion and in consultation consulting the non-executive directors, particularly the with the Chairman and the Chief Executive, other Deputy Chairman, on corporate governance issues, meetings with shareholders during the year.
The other matters considered by the Nominating Committee, non-executive directors may attend, at their request, which the Chairman chairs, and the individual meetings with the companys major shareholders and performances of the non-executive directors.
Chief Executive and the Secretary, he ensures the 53 Corporate governance BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three changes affecting BT and the communications industry years, subject to three months termination notice as a whole, by written briengs and meetings with from either BT or the director.
At the end of the first senior BT executives.
Directors are also advised on three years the appointment may be continued by appointment of their legal and other duties and mutual agreement.
Each non-executive director is obligations as a director of a listed company, both in provided, upon appointment, with a letter setting out writing and in face-to-face meetings with the the terms of his or her appointment, including Secretary.
They are reminded of these duties each year membership of Board committees, the fees to be paid, and they are also updated on changes to the legal and the time commitment expected from the director and governance requirements upon the company and covering such matters as the condentiality of themselves as directors.
During the 2004 financial information and the companys share dealing code.
year, for example, they have been advised on the The appointment letter was reviewed by the changes to UK corporate governance brought about by Nominating Committee following the publication of the the new Combined Code, continued to receive new Combined Code and new letters sent to all briengs on the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which non-executive directors which align the companys affects BT because its securities are registered with the letter, as appropriate, to the sample letter annexed to US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, and the new Code.
various corporate proposals from the European Commission.
They also received an updated brieng Election and re-election on UK, US and international financial reporting All directors are required by the companys articles of developments.
association to be elected by shareholders at the first Guidelines are in place concerning the content, AGM after their appointment, if appointed by the presentation and delivery of papers for each Board Board.
A director must subsequently retire by rotation meeting, so that the directors have enough at an AGM at intervals of not more than three years.
information to be properly briefed sufciently far ahead The director may seek re-election.
of each Board meeting and at other appropriate times.
Service agreements Board evaluation The Chairman and executive directors have service During summer 2003 the Board carried out, through a agreements, which are approved by the Remuneration questionnaire and discussion with directors, an Committee.
Information about the periods of these evaluation of its performance and the quality of board contracts is in the Report on directors remuneration.
The results of that exercise were considered by the Board in July 2003 and a number of actions Independent advice agreed.
A further evaluation, including on the The Board has a procedure for directors, in furtherance performance of directors and the Boards committees, of their duties, to take independent professional advice will be carried out during 2004. if necessary, at the companys expense.
In addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of the Directors and ofcers liability insurance and Secretary, the appointment and removal of whom is a indemnity matter for the whole Board.
He advises the Board on For some years the company has purchased insurance appropriate procedures for the management of its to cover its directors and ofcers against their costs in meetings and duties and the meetings of the defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken companys principal committees, as well as the against them in that capacity and in respect of implementation of corporate governance and damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of compliance within the group.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the company also indemnifies its directors and ofcers.
Training and information Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provide cover On appointment, the directors take part in an where the director has acted fraudulently or induction programme when they receive information dishonestly.
about BT, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and Principal Board committees membership of the principal Board and management To meet best corporate governance practice, Audit, committees, and the powers delegated to those Remuneration and Nominating Committees have long committees, the companys corporate governance been an established part of BTs system of governance.
practices and procedures, including the powers Each committee has written terms of reference, which reserved to the groups most senior executives, and are available on the companys website.
The minutes the latest financial information about the group.
This is of Audit and Nominating Committee meetings are supplemented by visits to key BT locations and sent, at their request, to directors who are not a meetings with members of the Operating Committee member of a committee.
In the case of the and other key senior executives.
Throughout their Remuneration Committee, minutes are circulated, on period in ofce the directors are continually updated request, to other non-executive directors as well as to on BTs business, the competitive and regulatory members of the committee.
environments in which it operates, technology and corporate social responsibility matters and other 54 Corporate governance BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Anthony Greener, standards of risk management and internal control, the the Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting, The other members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay accounting policies and procedures, and the Brendish, Lou Hughes, John Nelson and Carl Symon.
companys statements on internal controls before they They are all independent non-executive directors.
They are agreed by the Board for each years annual report.
were members of the committee throughout the 2004 It also reviews the companys internal audit function financial year.
The Board considers that the and its relationship with the external auditors, Committees members have broad commercial including internal audits plans and performance.
It experience and extensive business leadership, having reviews the arrangements for dealing, in confidence, held various roles in accountancy, financial with complaints from employees about accounting or management and supervision, treasury and corporate financial management impropriety, fraud, poor finance and that there is a broad and suitable mix of business practices and other matters.
At each of its business, financial and IT experience on the meetings, the Committee sets aside time to seek the Committee.
The Board has reviewed membership of views of the companys internal and external auditors the Committee and is satisfied, for the purposes of the in the absence of executives.
new Combined Code, that collectively the Committee The Group Finance Director, the Secretary, the has recent and relevant financial experience.
groups chief internal auditor and the companys The Committee recommends the appointment and external auditors attend the Committees meetings.
reappointment of the companys external auditors and The Committee met four times during the 2004 considers their resignation or dismissal, recommending financial year.
At its meetings the Committee has to the Board appropriate action to appoint new reviewed the companys full year and quarterly results auditors.
It ensures that key partners are rotated at and its Annual Report and Form 20-F and considered appropriate intervals.
It discusses with the auditors the the adequacy of the financial systems that have scope of their audits before they commence, reviews produced those results.
It has reported its views to the the results and considers the formal reports of the Board so it has been able to approve the results auditors and reports the results of those reviews to the announcements and the annual report for publication.
It reviews the auditors performance, including It has also during the 2004 financial year considered the scope of the audit, and recommends to the Board the groups risk register, as submitted to it by the appropriate remuneration.
Management Council, and reviewed the companys As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it internal control, accounting systems, IT security and may be necessary to employ the companys external related matters.
It also approved the arrangements for auditors for certain non-audit work.
In order to employees to make condential complaints about safeguard the independence and objectivity of the accounting and other issues and adopted, for the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a code of ethics to what non-audit services can be provided by the for the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and companys external auditors and the approval Director Group Financial Control and Treasury, which processes related to them.
Under those policies work is consistent with BTs overall statement of business of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the ethics.
external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
The overall Remuneration Committee policies and the processes to implement them were The Remuneration Committee comprises solely reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sir Anthony Greener.
It met four times during the relating to non-audit services that external auditors 2004 financial year.
Further details about the may not perform.
The Audit Committee monitors the Committee are included in the Report on directors extent of non-audit work being performed by the remuneration.
companys auditors and approves such work before it is undertaken.
It also monitors the level of non-audit Nominating Committee fees paid to the external auditors.
The Nominating Committee consists of the Chairman, The Audit Committee reviews the companys the Deputy Chairman, John Nelson and Maarten van published financial results, the Annual Report and den Bergh.
Its members have not changed during the Form 20-F and other published information for 2004 financial year.
It ensures an appropriate balance statutory and regulatory compliance.
It also reviews of experience and abilities on the Board, using this the disclosure made by the Chief Executive and Group evaluation to review the size and composition of the Finance Director during the certication process for Board and to recommend any proposed changes to the the annual report about the design or operation of Board.
It keeps under review the need for internal controls or material weaknesses in the appointments to the Board, prepares a description of controls, including any fraud involving management or the specic experience and skills needed for an other employees who have a significant role in the appointment, considers candidates who are put companys financial controls.
The Board, as required forward by the directors and external consultants, and by UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the recommends to the Board the appointments of all annual report.
directors after having met short-listed candidates.
It 55 Corporate governance BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 also reviews the time required from the Deputy the group and divestments.
It is authorised to delegate Chairman and other non-executive directors to carry these approvals, up to its own limits, to senior out their duties and advises the Board on succession executives.
planning for the positions of the Chairman, Deputy A sub-committee of the Operating Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive and all other Board Management Council, meets monthly.
It consists of the appointments.
The Committee met once during the Operating Committee members plus a number of other 2004 financial year at which time it reviewed the senior executives.
It is an advisory forum supporting current structure prole and balance of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Operating Committee in reviewed and recommended to the Board the policy formulation, in areas such as cultural change, continued appointments as non-executive directors of public policy, reputation and business practices Sir Anthony Greener and Maarten van den Bergh policies, human resources, pensions matters and neither of whom took part in the review of his own employment policies.
position and agreed changes to the non-executive directors letter of appointment to align it to Internal control and risk management recommended best practice.
The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for Meetings attendance reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
Such The following table shows the attendance of directors systems are designed to manage, rather than at meetings of the Board and Audit, Remuneration and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Nominating committees during the 2004 financial year.
objectives: any system can provide only reasonable and Audit Remuneration Nominating not absolute assurance against material misstatement Board Committee Committee Committee or loss.
attendance is shown only for a committee The Board also takes account of significant social, member environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs Number of meetings businesses and reviews annually BTs corporate social Director 11 4 4 1 responsibility.
The companys workplace practices, Sir Christopher Bland 11 1 specic environmental, social and ethical risks and Maarten van den Bergh 9431 opportunities and details of underlying governance Clay Brendish 11 3 processes are dealt with in the Our people and Our Pierre Danon 11 commitment to society sections of this report.
Andy Green 11 BT has processes for identifying, evaluating and Sir Anthony Greener 10 4 4 1 managing the significant risks faced by the group.
Lou Hughes 11 4 4 These processes have been in place for the whole of Margaret Jay 11 3 the 2004 financial year and have continued up to the Ian Livingston 11 date on which this document was approved.
The John Nelson 11 4 1 processes are in accordance with the guidance for Paul Reynolds 11 directors published in the UK in September 1999.
Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an Carl Symon 11 4 4 integral part of the groups annual strategic planning Ben Verwaayen 11 cycle.
The group has a detailed risk management process, culminating in a Board review, which Operating Committee and Management Council identies the key risks facing the group and each The Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, chairs the business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior Operating Committee, which meets weekly.
The other management as part of the strategic review.
The members are the Group Finance Director, the Chief groups current key risks are summarised in Risk Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global factors of this document.
Services and the Chief Broadband officer.
The The key features of the risk management process Secretary attends all meetings.
The Committee has comprise the following procedures: collective responsibility for running the groups & senior executives, led by the Secretary, review the business end-to-end.
To do that, it develops the groups key risks and have created a group risk groups strategy and budget for Board approval, register, describing the risks, owners and recommends to the Board the groups capital mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the expenditure and investments budgets, monitors the Management Council before being reviewed and financial, operational and customer quality of service approved by the Board.
performance of the whole group, allocates resources & the lines of business carry out risk assessments of across the group within plans agreed by the Board, their operations, have created registers relating to plans and delivers major cross-business programmes those risks, and ensure that the key risks are and reviews the senior talent base and succession plans addressed.
Within the groups corporate governance & senior management report regularly to the Group framework, approved by the Board, the Operating Finance Director on the operation of internal Committee is empowered to approve up to limits after controls in their area of responsibility.
& which Board approval is required, capital expenditure, the Chief Executive receives annual reports from disposals of xed assets, the making of investments by senior executives with responsibilities for major 56 Corporate governance BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 group operations with their opinion on the companys shareholder communications and share effectiveness of the operation of internal controls registration services.
We are continuing our policy that shareholders & the groups internal auditors carry out continuing vote on the annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders assessments of the quality of risk management will also again be asked to vote on the Report on and control.
Internal Audit reports to the directors remuneration.
management and the Audit Committee on the It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully status of specic areas identied for improvement.
in the affairs of the company and to give them the They also promote effective risk management in opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the the lines of business operations.
We also give the & the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, shareholders the opportunity to vote on every considers the effectiveness of the operation of substantially different issue by proposing a separate internal control procedures in the group during the resolution for each issue.
The Boards opinion is that financial year.
This follows consideration of the the re-election and the fees of the auditors are intermatter by the Management Council.
The Audit related matters and should therefore be dealt with in Committee reviews reports from the internal one resolution.
auditors and from the external auditors and The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM Committee has carried out these actions for the and the results will be made available at the meeting 2004 financial year.
after the shareholders have voted on each resolution Material joint ventures and associates, which BT on a show of hands and at the end of the meeting.
does not control, outside the UK have not been dealt It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at with as part of the group for the purposes of this all possible.
Whilst, because of ill health or other internal control assessment.
pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in The Board has approved the formal statement of normal circumstances this means that the chairman of matters which are reserved to it for consideration, the Audit, Nominating and Remuneration committees is approval or oversight.
It has also approved the groups at the AGM and is available to answer relevant corporate governance framework, which sets out the questions.
high level principles by which the group is managed The Annual Review and, if requested, the Annual and the responsibilities and powers of the Operating Report and Form 20-F, together with the Notice of the Committee, Management Council and the groups senior AGM, are sent to shareholders in the most costexecutives.
As part of this framework the development effective fashion, given the large number of and implementation of certain powers relating to shareholders.
We aim to give as much notice as group-wide policies and practices are reserved to possible and at least 21 clear days, as required by the identied senior executives.
In practice, these documents are being sent to shareholders more than Relations with shareholders 20 working days before the AGM.
Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Established procedures ensure the timely release of Group Finance Director and including, as appropriate, share price sensitive information and the publication of the other executive directors, hold meetings with the the companys financial results and regulatory financial companys principal institutional shareholders to statements.
discuss the companys strategy, financial performance and specic major investment activities.
The Deputy Statement of business practice Chairman also attends, at his discretion and in To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice consultation with the Chairman and the Chief in our standards of business integrity and ethics, BT Executive, meetings with shareholders during the year.
has a written statement of business practice The Way As explained in the Report on directors We Work.
The statement covers all our operations and remuneration, we also maintain contact, when reects the expectations in the area of corporate appropriate, through the chairman of the Remuneration governance and business practice standards.
A copy of Committee and other senior executives to discuss the statement has been sent to every employee and is overall remuneration policies and plans.
Contact with also available on the companys intranet site.
institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, These high-level principles are supported by a brokers and the media is controlled by written continuing and comprehensive communications guidelines to ensure the protection of share price programme and online training.
A condential helpline sensitive information that has not already been made and e-mail facility are also available to employees who generally available to the companys shareholders.
The have questions about the application of these directors are provided with reports and other written principles.
We also continue to require our agents and briengs from the companys major shareholders and contractors to apply these principles when representing analysts, either in full or through summaries from the BT.
companys brokers and are regularly informed by the Secretary about the holdings of its principal Political donations shareholders.
The Secretary also surveys the It has always been BTs policy that no company in the companys retail shareholders about the quality of the group shall make cash contributions to any political 57 Corporate governance BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 party.
This policy continues and appropriate accountancy, financial management and supervision, arrangements are in place to implement it throughout treasury and corporate finance and that there is a the group.
However, the Companies Act 1985 requires broad and suitable mix of business, financial and IT companies to obtain shareholder authority before they experience on the Committee.
The Board and its can make donations to EU political organisations committees will keep under active review the financial which includes UK political parties.
The denition of expert matter during the 2005 financial year as part of political donations used in the Act is very much their nomination and succession planning activities.
broader than the sense in which these words are The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, ordinarily used.
As a result, it covers activities which after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure form part of normal relationships between BT, controls and procedures as of the end of the period individual politicians and the principal political parties.
covered by this Annual Report and Form 20-F, have These activities are not designed to provide support to concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure or to inuence public support for any political party.
controls and procedures were effective to ensure that They would not be thought of as political donations in material information relating to BT was made known to the everyday sense of these words.
They are entirely them by others within the group.
The Chief Executive non-political in nature and are designed so that BT can and Group Finance Director have also provided the make MPs and others aware of key industry issues and certications required by the Act.
There were no changes in BTs internal control The authority we are requesting from shareholders over financial reporting that occurred during the year at the AGM is not designed to change the companys ended 31 March 2004 that have materially affected, or stated policy of not making cash contributions.
It will, are reasonably likely to materially affect, BTs internal however, ensure that BT acts within the provisions of control over financial reporting.
the current UK law when carrying out the above The code of ethics for the Chief Executive, Group activities.
They are carried out on an even-handed Finance Director and Director Group Financial Control basis related broadly to the major UK political parties and Treasury, adopted for the purposes of the Act, is electoral strength and the company believes that they posted on the companys website at make an important contribution to the success of BT.
com Thegroup Companyprole The level of political donations split as between the Ourcodesofethics CodeofethicsCEO.
htm major UK political parties is shown in the Report of the directors.
The New York Stock Exchange In November 2003, the SEC approved the new Pension funds corporate governance listing standards of the New BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The company, as a and the BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by the foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed Board but by separate trustees who are company and on the NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways union nominees, under independent chairmen.
The in which its corporate governance practices differ from trustees look after the assets of the funds, which are these standards.
held separately from those of the company.
The The company has reviewed the NYSEs new listing pension funds assets can only be used in accordance standards and believes that its corporate governance with their respective rules and for no other purpose.
practices are consistent with them, with one exception where the company does not meet the strict Financial requirements set out in the standards.
The standards A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for state that companies must have a nominating preparing the financial statements is included in the corporate governance committee composed entirely of Statement of directors responsibility.
The directors independent directors and with written terms of report on page 72 that the company is a going reference which, in addition to identifying individuals concern.
qualied to become board members, develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governance principles applicable to the company.
BT BT has securities registered with the US Securities and has a Nominating Committee.
Information about it is set Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged out on pages 54 and 55.
It does not develop corporate to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley governance principles for the Boards approval.
The Act the Act applicable to foreign issuers.
BT will Board approves the groups overall system of comply with the legal and regulatory requirements governance internal controls, governance and introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they compliance authorities.
The Board and the Nominating are applicable to the group.
Committee are made up of a majority of independent, Given the narrow and prescriptive denition under non-executive directors.
the relevant SEC rules, it is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee does not include a member who is an audit committee financial expert.
However, the Board considers that the Committees members have broad commercial experience and extensive business leadership, having held various roles in
