Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance 26 US Corporate Governance 26 Board of Directors 26 The Non-Executive Directors 27 How the Board Operates 27 Board Effectiveness 28 Board Committees Audit Committee 28 Nomination Committee 29 Remuneration Committee 30 Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee 30 Relations with Shareowners 30 Internal Control 30 Contents Inside Front Cover Glossary 174 Cross reference to Form 20-F 175 Index 178 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 25 Corporate Governance Report In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Cadbury Board of Directors Board Composition: Currently, the Board has ten members: Schweppes plc is committed to achieving high standards of business integrity, ethics and professionalism across all its four Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
As a fundamental part of this commitment, the No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards Board supports the highest standards of corporate decision-making.
Collectively, the Non-Executive Directors governance.
The Group has a financial Code of Ethics that bring a valuable range of international experience and applies to the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial expertise as they all currently occupy or have occupied senior officers in the Group.
All members of the Board and senior positions in industry and public life.
managers sign the Cadbury Schweppes Business Principles, entitled Our Business Principles.
Both the Code of Ethics The role of the Board: The Board has responsibility for the and Our Business Principles are available on the Groups overall management and performance of the Group and the website, www.
approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy.
It is responsible for ensuring that any necessary corrective UK Corporate Governance action is taken promptly to ensure the Groups objectives In 2004, the Company fully complied with the provisions of are met.
the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Chairman: John Sunderland is the Companys Executive In early 2004, the Board completed a review of Group Chairman and is responsible for managing the Board and its corporate governance policy, started in late 2003.
He provides close support and advice to the Chief it has implemented a number of changes to take account Executive Officer and participates in the ongoing dialogue of the 2003 revisions to the Combined Code.
This includes between the Company and its major shareowners.
more emphasis on training for Directors, a more formal Board performance evaluation, disclosure of Directors The Chief Executive Officer: Todd Stitzer is the Companys attendance at Board meetings, the formal evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for providing work of the Audit Committee and making the terms of leadership to, and working with, the Chief Executives reference of all Board Committees more easily accessible Committee in planning, developing, implementing and and transparent via publication on the investor centre page managing business strategies for the Group.
of the Companys website www.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Roger Carr, US Corporate Governance the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Following the introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of Companys Deputy Chairman.
Rogers responsibilities include 2002 in the US, the Company took steps to comply with its meeting with major shareowners and chairing meetings requirements and the consequent changes to the Securities of the Non-Executive Directors without executive and Exchange Commission and to the New York Stock management being present.
Exchange Corporate Governance rules and regulations.
The Disclosure Review Committee has responsibility for the Interested persons who wish to communicate with the design, periodic review and modification of internal controls Non-Executive Directors may do so by writing to Roger Carr and procedures to collect, process and disclose information to at the Companys registered office.
External directorships for Executive Directors: The Board The revised NYSE Corporate Governance rules, approved by considers that Executive Directors can gain valuable the SEC in November 2003, took effect for Cadbury experience and knowledge by being a non-executive director Schweppes on 21 May 2004.
As a listed non-US issuer, the of another listed company.
Subject to certain conditions, and Company is required to comply with some of the rules, and unless otherwise determined by the Board, each Executive otherwise must disclose any significant ways in which its Director is permitted to accept only one appointment as a corporate governance practices differ from those followed non-executive director of another company.
Details of the by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
fees received by Directors for this can be found in the Report The Company complies with all the NYSE rules which apply on Directors Remuneration on page 41. to non-US issuers.
The Audit Committee considers some corporate governance matters on behalf of the Board and is composed entirely of independent directors.
The NYSE rules allow a committee other than the Nomination Committee to fulfill this role as long as all of its members are independent directors.
26 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 The Non-Executive Directors Other matters are delegated to Board Committees.
Independence: All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no relationships The full schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board are which could materially interfere with the exercise of their available to view on the investor centre page of the independent judgement.
The Board has considered the Companys website, www.
position of Wolfgang Berndt and determined that he is Alternatively, they are available in hard copy format from the independent, notwithstanding that he is also a non-executive Group Secretary.
director of Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Lloyds TSB Group plc, with which the Group has a number of commercial Information flow: Senior executives below Board level attend relationships.
The Board based its decision on, amongst other certain Board meetings and make presentations on the things, the fact that Dr Berndt is not involved in any decisions results and strategies of their business units.
Board members taken by the Company regarding Lloyds TSBs suitability or are given appropriate documentation in advance of each performance.
He has no executive responsibilities in either Board and Committee meeting.
In addition to formal Board group and is independent of management in the Cadbury meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain Schweppes Group.
regular contact with all Directors and hold informal meetings with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting Terms of appointment: Subject to satisfactory performance, the Group.
all Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve one or two Independent professional advice: The Board has approved a additional three-year terms, with a cap of nine years being procedure for Directors to take independent professional the general rule.
Their terms and conditions of appointment advice if necessary at the Companys expense up to a are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration maximum of 25,000 p. a. each.
Before incurring on page 42 and more details are given on the investor centre professional fees the Director concerned must consult the page of the Companys website, www.
Chairman of the Board or two other Directors one of whom is Non-Executive.
Such advice was not sought by any Meetings of Non-Executives: The Non-Executive Directors Director during the year.
meet separately at least once a year without the Chairman being present principally to appraise the Chairmans Group Secretary: The Group Secretary is responsible for performance.
During 2004, they held two meetings.
advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, ensuring How the Board Operates good information flow, facilitating induction programmes for Delegated authorities: The Board has a formal schedule of Directors and assisting with Directors continuing professional matters reserved to it for decision, which includes: development.
All Directors have direct access to the advice Responsibility for the strategic direction of the Group: and services of the Group Secretary.
The appointment and Committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions and removal of the Group Secretary is subject to approval by the disposals: Board as a whole.
Authorisation of any material borrowings and any issue of equity securities: Agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign currency and interest risk parameters: Senior executive appointments: Approval of annual and interim results: Dividend policy: Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information: and Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management process.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 27 Corporate Governance Report Board meetings and attendance: The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2004 was as follows: Corporate & Social Board Strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility 1 7 meetings 1 meeting 4 meetings 6 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings Wolfgang Berndt 7 1 4 n a n a 2 2 Rick Braddock 7135 n a n a Roger Carr 71462 n a 3 Ken Hanna 5 1 n a n a n a n a 4 David Kappler 3 n a n a n a n a 5 Bob Stack 6 1 n a n a n a 2 Todd Stitzer 7 1 n a n a n a 2 John Sunderland 7 1 n a n a 2 2 David Thompson 7146 n a2 6 Rosemary Thorne 3111 n a n a Baroness Wilcox 7 1 n a n a 2 2 NB.
n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of that committee.
1 In addition to the seven full Board meetings, there are two Board meetings attended by the Executive Directors only for the final approval of year end and interim results, which were considered previously by the full Board.
2 Rick Braddock missed one Audit and one Remuneration meeting due to a conflict in his schedule.
3 Ken Hanna was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 13 April 2004 and has attended all Board meetings since his appointment.
4 David Kappler retired as Chief Financial Officer on 13 April 2004.
He attended all Board meetings up to his retirement.
5 Bob Stack missed one Board meeting due to a family commitment.
6 Rosemary Thorne was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 6 September 2004 and has attended all Board and Committee meetings since her appointment.
Board Effectiveness Board Committees Induction and continuing professional development: The Board has the following three main committees: On joining the Board, Directors are given background information describing the Company and its activities.
For Audit Committee new Directors, site visits to the major business units are Members: David Thompson Chairman, Wolfgang Berndt, arranged.
For those Non-Executive Directors who are also Rick Braddock, Roger Carr and Rosemary Thorne appointed members of Board Committees, meetings are arranged with to the Committee on 22 October 2004. the Group departments who provide support to the relevant Board Committee.
During 2004, the majority of the The following ordinarily attend meetings of the Audit Non-Executive Directors attended training on International Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Financial Reporting Standards, changes in company law and Committee: the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive directors responsibilities, which was provided by Deloitte & Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Business Touche LLP.
The Group Secretary reported to the Board on Risk Management, the Head of Group Audit, the Director Directors responsibilities and recent case law developments.
of Financial Control and the external auditor.
The members of this Committee all held office at the year end and at Performance evaluation: A formal and rigorous external the date of this Report.
The Board has determined that evaluation of the Board its members and its committees was David Thompson is the Audit Committee financial expert as conducted during 2004 by the Zygos Partnership.
The defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
evaluation, undertaken by meetings with Directors and senior management, included reviewing, amongst other things, the The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
In composition of the Board: succession planning: the role of 2004, it met four times.
The Audit Committee is responsible the Nomination Committee, the Boards contact with for exercising the full powers and authority of the Board shareowners and the role of the Group Secretary.
The results in accounting matters and financial reporting matters.
were considered by the Board in September 2004 and The detailed Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee certain action points were proposed for further consideration are available to view on the investor centre page of the during 2005.
All of these proposals were agreed and will Companys website, www.
Alternatively, they are available in hard copy format from the Group Secretary.
Board evaluation will continue and will be undertaken by a combination of internal processes and advice from external consultants.
28 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Its work during 2004 included consideration of the Other issues: In appropriate circumstances, the Audit following: Committee is empowered to dismiss the external auditor and The 2003 full year results announcement, the 2003 appoint another suitably qualified auditor in its place.
The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the re-appointment of the external auditor is approved annually 2003 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F, and the report by the shareowners at the Annual General Meeting.
on the 2003 Report & Accounts from the external auditor.
The 2003 full year report on internal audit and the Details of the fees paid to the external auditor can be found effectiveness of internal control: on pages 105 and 106.
The 2004 Interim Report: The provision and scope of audit and non-audit work by the The composition and role of the Audit Committee has been external auditor: reviewed against the recommendations made in the Smith External audit fees for 2003 and 2004: Report published in 2003.
The Audit Committee complies The introduction of the Groups Speaking Up protocols with all of these recommendations.
the Groups whistle-blowing policy : Nomination Committee Security arrangements for Information Technology: Members: John Sunderland Chairman, Roger Carr and The annual report on Group legal matters: An annual review of the effectiveness of the Audit Baroness Wilcox.
Committee: Corporate governance developments in the UK and US and The Chief Human Resources Officer attends meetings at the the Groups response to these developments: invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
This Committee Monitoring the Groups risk management and business is empowered to bring to the Board recommendations ethics processes: as to the appointment of any new Executive or Reviewing the Groups internal audit process and the audit Non-Executive Director, provided that the Chairman, in plan for 2005: developing such recommendations, consults all Directors and Developments in accounting standards including the reflects that consultation in any recommendation of the Groups preparations for the adoption of International Nomination Committee.
The mixture of Non-Executive Financial Reporting Standards: and and Executive Directors on the Committee ensures that a Preparation for the Groups compliance with the internal review of Board candidates is undertaken in a disciplined control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Non-audit services: The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Nomination Committee, in discussions with the Nonidentifies certain categories of non-audit services which are Executive Directors, is responsible for succession planning no longer to be performed by the external auditor.
The Board as a whole is responsible for Company has incorporated that prohibition into its own development plans, including the progressive refreshing policy regarding services from the external auditor.
The list of of the Board, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
prohibited non-audit services may only be varied by the Audit No Director participates in the discussions considering Committee.
The external auditor is permitted to undertake some nonThe members of this Committee all held office at the year audit services, for example due diligence activities associated end and at the date of this Report.
with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses by the Group.
Permitted non-audit services, and their associated The Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee fees, must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
are available to view on the investor centre page of the Where such services are considered recurring in nature, Companys website, www.
approval may be sought for the full financial year at the Alternatively, they are available in hard copy format from beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted nonthe Group Secretary.
audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis.
Where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate During 2004, the Committee met twice to discuss the time frame, the approval is sought from the Chairman of the appointment of Rosemary Thorne as a new Non-Executive Audit Committee subject to confirmation at the next meeting.
Director and to make a recommendation to the Board.
Spencer Stuart, external search consultants, were engaged to Auditor independence: The Audit Committee reviews the produce a list of 18 candidates.
This list was then reduced to a work undertaken, and the fees incurred, by the external short list of candidates which was discussed between the auditor at each meeting, along with a complete list for the Chairman and the members of the Nomination Committee previous financial year, to ensure that the external auditor on an individual basis.
The Nomination Committee met, remains independent of the Company.
In addition, the Audit as a whole, with Rosemary Thorne and then met again Committee receives written confirmation from the external to endorse her nomination which was then presented to auditor as to any relationships which may be reasonably the Board for approval.
thought to influence its independence.
The external auditor also confirms whether it considers itself independent within the meaning of the UK and US regulatory and professional requirements, as well as within the meaning of the securities laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US and the requirements of the Independence Standards Board.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 29 Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, Individual shareowners have the opportunity at the Annual together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments General Meeting to question the Chairman, and through him and interests in the Companys share capital, are set out the chairmen of the various Board Committees.
The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are available to view on the Details of the Annual General Meeting AGM are set out in investor centre page of the Companys website, the Notice of Meeting in the separate AGM booklet which is www.
Alternatively, they are sent to shareowners.
A copy of the booklet is also placed on available in hard copy format from the Group Secretary.
the investor centre page of the Companys website, www.
The booklet contains the text Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and Members: Baroness Wilcox Chairman, Wolfgang Berndt, explanatory notes, where necessary, relating to them.
Bob Stack, Todd Stitzer, John Sunderland, David Thompson, and Mike Clark.
At the AGM there will be a statement by the Chairman regarding the Companys performance in 2004 and a brief This Committee focuses on corporate and social responsibility statement on current trading conditions.
It is intended that all matters in relation to the environment, employment Directors will, as usual, attend the AGM if at all possible.
practices, health and safety, equal opportunities and diversity, Whilst illness or other pressing reasons may mean this is not community and social investment, ethical trading and human achieved, in normal circumstances the chairmen of the rights, and other aspects of ethical business practice.
The Committees detailed on pages 28 to 30 and 34 will attend members of this Committee all held office at the year end the AGM and will be available to answer questions.
and at the date of this Report.
Further details of the Groups approach to corporate and social responsibility matters Shareowners attending the AGM will be advised of the can be found in the Description of Business section on pages number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the 14 to 16. categories For and Against, together with the number of Votes withheld.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a Other Committees poll, the results of which will be announced to the London In addition to the four committees described above, the and New York Stock Exchanges and placed on the Companys following committees have also been established: website within 48 hours of the meeting concluding.
Chief Executives Committee Institutional Investors Members: Todd Stitzer Chairman, Executive Directors On a day-to-day basis, the Boards primary contact with except for John Sunderland, the Group Secretary and Chief institutional shareowners is via the Chief Executive Officer Legal Officer, President of Supply Chain, President of Global and the Chief Financial Officer, but the Senior Independent Commercial Strategy, Chief Science and Technology Officer Non-Executive Director and other members of the Board and the five Regional Presidents.
are available to meet with major shareowners on request.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Non-Executive The Chief Executives Committee deals with major Director, Roger Carr is available to shareowners when operational and management issues, including the review of contact with the Executive Directors or the Chairman may four-weekly financial results and forecasts, proposals for not be appropriate.
capital expenditure and major operating issues.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer visit Disclosure Review Committee the United States and Continental Europe on a regular basis Members: Mike Clark Chairman, Ken Hanna, Director of and meet with major shareowners there.
Business Risk Management, Director of Financial Control, Investor Relations Director, Corporate Communication The Directors are supported by the Companys investor Director: other representatives of Group Legal and Finance, relations department, who are in regular contact with the external auditors and UK and US external counsel also institutional investors, analysts and brokers.
Their reports are attend meetings of this Committee by invitation.
circulated to the Board on a regular basis and this enables the Directors to develop an understanding of the views of major Prior to submission to the Board and Audit Committee, this shareowners.
Committee reviews the Groups Report and Accounts and Form 20-F: interim statement and trading update to assess Company Website the accuracy and completeness of disclosures, based on The Companys website, www.
com, applicable laws and regulations.
provides financial and other information about the Group and contains an archive of past announcements and report and Relations with Shareowners accounts.
It also has the facility to send a notification when The Companys relationship with shareowners is given a high any press releases are made.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareowners and a Internal Control full Annual Report and Form 20-F is available by election or The Directors have responsibility for the Groups system of on request.
Regular trading updates are published via the London Stock Exchange and by press release.
internal control that covers all aspects of the business.
In recognition of that responsibility the Directors set policies and seek regular assurance that the system of internal control 30 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 is operating effectively.
Strategic, commercial, operational potential impact and the likelihood of them materialising.
and financial areas are all within the scope of these activities Decisions are then taken as to the most appropriate method which also include management of the related risks.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system These may include regular monitoring, investment of of internal control, however, the Directors are aware that additional resources, transfer to third parties via insurance or such a system cannot totally eliminate risks and thus there hedging agreements and contingency planning.
For insurance, can never be an absolute assurance against the Group failing there is a comprehensive global programme which utilises an to achieve its objectives or a material loss arising.
internal captive structure for lower level risks and the external market only for cover on major losses.
Hedging activities The key elements of the system may be described as the relate to financial and commodity risks and these are managed control environment, and this is represented by the following: by Group Treasury and Procurement functions with external a the key business objectives are clearly specified at all levels cover for the net Group exposures see pages 71 to 73. within the Group: b Purpose and Values, a framework for our strategic In August each year, all business units are required to report intent, and Our Business Principles, a set of guidelines on on their principal business risks with details of the mitigation legal compliance and ethical behaviour, are distributed strategies i. e. the chosen management methods.
The throughout the Group: internal assurance departments and other Group functions c the organisation structure is set out with full details of report on any further business risks evident at a regional, reporting lines and appropriate limits of authority for global or corporate level.
different processes: d a wide range of corporate policies deal, inter alia, with Each year, a consolidated summary of the most significant control issues for corporate governance, management risks for the Group as a whole is reviewed by the Board accounting, financial reporting, project appraisal, of Directors or by the Audit Committee.
environment, health and safety, information technology, and risk management generally: The Groups associates, DPSUBG and Camelot, have not e individual business units operate on the basis of multi-year been treated as part of the Group for the purposes of the contracts with four-weekly reports on performance and Turnbull guidance on internal control.
They are instead regular dialogues with Group senior management on managed in line with their respective shareholder agreements.
progress: f various internal assurance departments, including the Accordingly the Directors confirm that the system of internal internal audit department, overseen by the Director of control for the year ended 2 January 2005 and the period Business Risk Management, carry out regular reviews of up to 11 March 2005 has been reviewed in line with the the control activities and report their findings to both the criteria set out in the Turnbull guidance as it currently stands.
business unit involved and Group management: and g the Audit Committee approves plans for control reviews The Turnbull guidance on internal controls is currently being and deals with significant issues raised by internal reviewed and consulted upon.
The Company has provided assurance departments or the external auditor.
a detailed response to the Flint review group and one of the members of the working party is a senior member of our The management of all forms of business risk continues to be finance team.
an important part of ensuring that the Group creates and protects value for its shareowners.
The processes involved call John Sunderland for the identification of specific risks in the many different Chairman areas, the assessment of those risks in terms of their 11 March 2005 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 31 This page has been left blank intentionally 32 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004
