CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Thissectiondiscusses Smith& Nephewsstructures .
Eustace...........  10November1999 2006 JohnBuchanan..............  3February2005 2005 ...... Executive Director, Chief 1September 1992 2007 Executive Peter Hooley................ Executive Director responsible 2April1991 2006  Technology Dr. Pamela J. Kirby...........  1March2002 2005 WarrenD.
Knowlton..........  1November2000 2007 BrianLarcombe..............  1March2002 2005 RichardDeSchutter..........  1January2001 2007 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg.......  1January1998 2007 DirectorsBiographies Dudley G. Eustace, Chairman, 68 was appointed Deputy Chairman in 1999 and Chairman in January 2000.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Sendo Holdings plc and nonexecutive , .
John Buchanan 61 was appointed a director on 3 February 2005.
He is the Deputy Chairman.
He is a nonexecutive , AstraZeneca PLCandBHPBilliton.
Sir Christopher ODonnell, Chief Executive, 58 joined the Group in 1988 as managing director of the Groups medical division and was appointed a director of Smith & Nephew in 1992.
He was appointed Chief Executive in 1997 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a non-executive director of BOC Group plc.
Peter Hooley, Finance Director, 58 joined the Group and was appointed Finance Director in 1991.
Dr. Pamela J. Kirby 51 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
She is non-executive Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and a non-executive director of T&F Informaplc, .
Warren D. Knowlton 58 was appointed a director in November 2000.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee anda memberofthe .
Brian Larcombe 51 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a &C Asset Management plc.
Richard fide Schutter 64 was appointed a director in January 2001 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director ofVarianInc.
Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg 64 was appointed a director in 1998.
He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of Management ConsultingGroup plc and Lanxess AG and a  ofScaniaAB, Reed Elsevier plc, HoyerGmbH, TPG Groupplc, DeutscheBPAG andBiesterfeld AG.
49 EXECUTIVEOFFICERS The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Group Executive Committee GEC, which comprises the executive directors and certain other senior executives of Smith & Nephew the Executive Officers, assists the Chief Executive in the management of the business.
The following are Executive Officers of Smith & Nephew and all, apart from the CompanySecretary, are members ofthe GEC: Dr. Peter Arnold 43 Group Director of Technology.
He joined the Group in 1997 and worked in corporate business development and corporate research and development roles.
He was appointed to the GEC in January 2004.
Prior to joining the Group he was responsible for research and development for Johnson & Johnsons woundcarebusiness.
James L. Dick 52 President Advanced Wound Management.
He joined the Group in 1977 and was appointed to the GEC in January 1999.
He has worked predominantly in sales, marketing and general management roles  , .
Peter W. Huntley 44 Group Director Indirect Markets.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in April 1998, responsible for the Groups strategy and business planning.
He was appointed to his current role in December 2003.
Prior to joining the Group, he was a consultant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells, and the  Clarkplc.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in May 2002.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Officer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory critical care company and President of a technology incubatorcompany.
James A. Ralston 58 Chief Legal Officer.
He joined the Group in 1998 as Executive VP and Chief Legal Officer for North America and was appointed to the GEC in February 2002.
Prior to joining the Group he was in private practiceandVPGeneral CounselandSecretary , Inc. James M. Taylor 48 President Endoscopy.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in June 2000.
Prior to his appointment in 2003 as President of Endoscopy, he was Group Director Indirect Markets.
Previously he was President of DePuy International and has held senior positions with British Leyland and ChlorideGroup.
Paul M. Williams 58 Group Director Human Resources.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in December 1998.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior human resources director roles with NCR, Heinz, Glaxo andRolls-Royce.
Company Secretary Paul R. Chambers 60 Company Secretary.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Assistant Company Secretary and was appointed CompanySecretary inApril2002.
50 GOVERNANCE AND POLICY The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as appended to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, requires UK listed companies to make a disclosure statement on the application of the Principles and Supporting  Provisionsofthe Code.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and considers that it has complied with the new Code throughout the year with the exception that no member of the Audit Committee has recent financial experience.
However, all members have relevant financialexperience and the Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee have the skills and experience of corporate financial matters to discharge properly the .
In accordance with the Code, the following paragraphs describe Smith & Nephews Corporate Governance  the  newCode.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as the US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board believes that it has complied throughout the year with both SEC and NYSE requirements related to corporate governance with the exception that, in accordance with the Combined Code, the Nominations Committee consists of a majority of  , as requiredbythe NYSE.
The Board The Board of Directors of Smith & Nephew consists of an independent non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
In 2004, the Board met on eight occasions and individual attendance was: Dudley Eustace 8, Sir Christopher ODonnell 8, Peter Hooley 8, Dr Pamela Kirby 8, Warren Knowlton 7, Brian Larcombe 8, Richard fide Schutter 8 and Dr Rolf Stomberg 8.
The Board is responsible for the strategic direction and overall management of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects, acquisitions, divestments and treasury arrangements but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described on page 52.
It reviews the key activities of the businesses  the workundertakenbythe Committees.
Non-executive directors meet regularly without management in attendance and the Senior Independent Director .
, ifnecessary, to independent professional advice.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place and induction programmes and training are offered to new directors.
Further training for all directors, which would include such issues as risk, is available as appropriate.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company .
Whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Group, there is a clear division of respective responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board, including ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, whilst the Chief Executive is responsible for managing and supervising the day-to-day business of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved bythe Board.
TheGEC advises andassists the Chief Executive inthe managementofthe Group.
The Senior Independent Director is Dr Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on  in the absence of the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available to shareholders if they have .
In 2004, a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was undertaken by an external consultant with the emphasis on continuous improvement and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Each director and the Company Secretary were interviewed separately and the result of the review presented to the whole Board.
A number of recommendations were made which have been acted upon.
Individual evaluation is carried out by the Nominations Committee with particular emphasis on the evaluation of those directors standing for re-appointment at the AGM.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, evaluate the performanceofthe Chairman.
51 The Board has determined that none of the independent non-executive directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Group.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is provided with healthcare cover, they do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option schemes or performance related pay schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes.
No director of Smith & Nephew is a director of a company or an affiliate in which & Nephewisa director.
None of the directors or executive officers or any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same address as the director or officer, or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of Smith & Nephew has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or werea party fromthe beginningoffiscal year2003to8March2005.
Details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are included in the RemunerationReport.
Board Committees The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, whichmay be found on the Groups web site at www.
The Company Secretary is secretary toeachofthe committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee met onsix occasions in2004 individualattendance is showninparenthesis.
The Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Warren D. Knowlton 6.
Theothermembersofthe Committee are Brian Larcombe 6 who was appointed to the Committee in January 2003, Richard fide Schutter 6 whowas appointed inFebruary2001and DrRolf Stomberg 5 whowas appointed inFebruary1998.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, met three times in 2004 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis and is chaired by Dr Rolf Stomberg 3.
The other members of the Committee are Dr Pamela Kirby 3, Warren Knowlton 2 and Richard fide Schutter 3.
The Remuneration Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive directors and members of the GEC, approves their main terms of employment and determines share options and long-term incentive arrangements.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, consisting of two independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive, met three times in 2004 and its chairman, Dudley Eustace, and members, Dr Rolf Stomberg and Sir Christopher ODonnell, attended all meetings.
It oversees plans for Board of Directors succession, recommends appointments to the Board of Directors and determines the fees of the non-executive directors.
It provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Candidate profiles are agreed by the Committee before external consultants are engaged to advise on prospective Board appointees.
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee who then recommend candidates to be interviewed by all members of the Board.
The final decision is made by the Board.
This procedure was followed for the appointment of John Buchanan as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman.
The Senior Independent Directoroversees the process forthe appointmentofa newChairman.
 Under Smith & Nephews Articles of Association, any director who has been appointed by the Board of Directors since the previous annual general meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the next annual general meeting and then is eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
Subsequently, directors retire and offerthemselves forre-electionat the third annualgeneralmeeting after the meeting at which they were last reappointed.
The directors are subject to removal with or without cause by .
On 3 February 2005 John Buchanan joined the Board as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman and in accordance with the Articles of Association will be proposed for re-election at the AGM to be held on 5 May 2005.
Brian Larcombe and Dr Pamela Kirby retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-electionat the AGM.
52 ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDITAND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems, which accord with the Turnbull Guidance, have been in place for 2004 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts, involving: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks througha Risk Committee, whichreports tothe Boardannually:business reviews bythe Board: and the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impactthe achievementofthe Groupsobjectives.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee comprises the members of GEC and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
Areas ofpotential majorimpactare reported tothe  its bi-annualmeetings.
The most significant Group risks are reported to the Board quarterly, which will include new or increased risks.
The annual Group Risk Report by the Risk Committee to the Board details all principal risks categorised by potential  price.
In 2004 the effectiveness of the business unit systems put in place to identify and manage material risk were evaluated andthe findingsreported tothe Audit Committee.
DisclosuresCommittee and evaluation of DisclosureControls and Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and also comprises the Finance Director and the Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
The secretary is the Company Secretary.
The Committee approves the releases of all major communicationsto investors, to the UK Listing Authority and the London and New York stock exchanges.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2004.
Based upon, and as of the date of, that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in all material respects, to ensure that informationrequired to be disclosed in the reports the Group files and submits under the Exchange Act in the US is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and when required.
As a consequence of the preparatory work to convert the accounts from UK GAAP to IFRS, management has identified certain adjustments that were needed to the UK US GAAP reconciliations in prior years and has restated for these as disclosed in Note 39 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Under US reporting these adjustments, when taken together, are indicators of a material weakness in the disclosure controls relating to US GAAP which management is remediating.
This does not affect reporting under UK GAAP.
There have been no other changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal .
Code of BusinessPrinciples The code of business principles, which is available at www.
com sustainability and is available on request, applies to all directors, officers and employees.
Any breaches of the code are directed in writing to the Company Secretary who is obliged to raise the issue with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
During 2004 and up until 8 March 2005 there have been two breaches of the Code alleged, bothofwhichhave been investigated and foundtobe unsubstantiated.
Nowaivers have been put inplace noranyamendments made tothe Code.
Code of Ethicsfor SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which is available at www.
com sustainability and is available on request.
It applies to the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any ofthe Codes  made tothe .
53 Activitiesof the Audit Committee for 2004 TheAudit Committees remit, whichisset outinits terms ofreference, : monitoring the integrity of the Companys accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal  containedinthem:  :  effectiveness ofthe : making recommendations to the Board, for shareholder approval, regarding the appointment,  external auditors, as appropriate: approvingthe remunerationandterms ofengagement ofthe external auditors:  external  effectiveness ofthe auditprocess:  ofthe external auditorstosupply non-auditservices: monitoringthe effectiveness : reviewingthe operationofthe : and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Company regarding financial .
TheGrouphas : the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors which prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors duringthe yearwerepre-approved bythe Audit Committee:and audit partner rotation, which is in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years has expired  Group.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of management attend the meetings when necessary andthe external auditorshave unrestrictedaccess tothe Audit Committee.
 ofthe Audit Committeeduringthe yearended : considerationofthe reports onthe quarterlyreports, : considerationofthe proposed changesinUK GAAP andIFRS: considerationofthe  introductionofs404 ofthe Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: a reviewofthe , its processes, : a review of the Internal Review departments activities for the year, together with its resource requirements andfindings: a : a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance , includingthe rotationofpartners: a reviewofthe audit, audit-related andtax services providedbyErnst & YoungLLP: the pre-approval of all  by the auditor together with associated fees, to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP was not compromised.
Ernst & Young LLP provided noconsultancywork: consideration of Ernst & Young LLPs in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and : 54 recommendingthe  & YoungLLPas the Groupsauditors: confirmation that no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of : reviewing the Committees terms of reference to ensure they reflect recent developments in corporate governanceinthe UK andthe US: and considerationofthe .
The Committee may obtain legal and other independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as it deems necessary.
Duringthe year, nosuchadvicewas soughtbythe Committee.
Future Reporting Developments On 2 March 2005 the SEC announced the postponement by a further year for foreign registrants of the deadline for compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
When s404 is effective in 2006, management will be required to report on the Groups internal controls over financial reporting.
Work has been carried out during  Act andwillcontinuetobe progressed during2005.
Auditrelated fees principally include accounting consultation in relation to International Financial Reporting Standards and advice regarding compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley in 2004.
Tax fees include tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services.
The amount included in Other in 2003 related to tax and corporate finance work in relation to the unsuccessful public offer for Centerpulse AG and InCentive Capital AG.
No such fees were incurred in 2004.
A moredetailed breakdownofauditfees maybe foundinNote37ofthe Notes tothe GroupAccounts.
55 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders The Group issues a summary report on the year, the Summary Financial Statement, to shareholders outside the US unless a shareholder requests the Groups full Annual Report.
Over 90% of shareholders have chosen to only receive a copy of the Summary Financial Statement.
At the half year, an Interim Report is sent to all shareholders and quarterly reports are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups web site.
Copies of the full Annual Report, the Summary Financial Statement and the Interim Report are also available on the Smith& Nephewweb site alongwithpress releases,  andaudiowebcasts.
There is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations twice a year.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to do so if shareholders request a meeting.
In 2004, no such request was received.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM, at which the level of proxy votes received are advised, and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a rangeofissues.
All the shares, includingthose , rankparipassu witheachother.
Share capital At the AGM, the Company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased or contracted for or are the subject of an option under the  the AGM of6May2004.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, which have been approved by the Audit Committee, willbe proposed at the AGM.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the  bythe Grouptothe SEC maybe accessed throughthe SEC web site.
