C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:24 AM Page 65 Corporate governance continued the issue of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: We are also required to disclose any significant ways in which the issue of instructions restricting the employment of former our corporate governance practices differ from those typically employees of the audit rm: and followed by US listed companies.
We should therefore alert our establishment of standards of professional conduct for US US shareholders to the fact that the membership of our attorneys.
Nomination Committee currently includes the Chairmen CEOs of NV and PLC.
This is common practice in the UK and is done in In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or order to ensure that the Committee will have the benefit of their documented in such a way as to conform to the new extensive knowledge of the executives under consideration.
has been particularly relevant for a company like Unilever which has a practice of predominantly promoting to senior positions The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial from within the Group.
The practice is permissible so long as the and accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed Chairmen CEOs are in a minority to the Independent Nonby the US Securities and Exchange commission SEC, Executive Directors and they absent themselves when their own and a copy has been posted on our website at positions are under consideration.
As already explained, from www.
The Code of 2005 no Executive Director will be a member of the Nomination Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Committee and three of the four members will be Independent.
Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct that implement it.
The only amendment to these preIn addition to the information we have given you in this existing provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code document about our corporate governance arrangements, further of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee and details are provided in The Governance of Unilever, which is on consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep our website at www.
No waiver from any provision of the We would also confirm, as our longer term shareholders will Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling within be aware, that it is our practice, in accordance with our home the scope of the SEC requirement in 2004. country laws and practices, to give our shareholders the opportunity to vote on equity compensation plans.
We also took into account the US requirements taking effect in 2004 and 2005 applicable to both foreign and US listed It goes without saying that we must be compliant with applicable companies in preparing the changes to its corporate governance US legislation, including the relevant regulations enacted by the arrangements that became effective from the NV and PLC Annual SEC.
In addition to being fully compliant with the Listing General Meetings held on 12 May 2004.
Standards of the New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign issuers, we believe ourselves also to be compliant with the These changes included the appointment of Non-Executive substance of the Corporate Governance Standards applicable to Directors to join our top tier of executives, who comprise the US domestic issuers, with one exception.
This is the composition Executive Directors and the Executive Committee, on the Boards.
of the Nomination Committee, as already noted.
This board structure is not the one most familiar to our shareholders in the US, where the most senior executives draw Nomination Committee report their authority primarily from their corporate ofce rather than their appointment, if any, as a Director.
Composition In 2004 the Nomination Committee comprised three Independent The changes we are making in 2005, in particular with the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
It was appointment of a Group Chief Executive on the Board and the chaired throughout 2004 by Bertrand Collomb.
Other members creation of a Group Executive that is immediately below Board throughout 2004 were Antony Burgmans, Lord Simon and Jeroen level, will bring our arrangements closer to those of a typical van der Veer.
Patrick Cescau joined the Committee on 1 October model for US issuers.
However, the situation remains that the following the retirement of Niall FitzGerald.
The Joint Secretaries laws in the Netherlands and the UK only give limited recognition act as secretaries to the Committee.
to the existence of any corporate officer other than that of a Director.
The composition of the Committee was included as part of the review of corporate governance arrangements during 2003 and We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards of early 2004, and again in 2004 and early 2005. the New York Stock Exchange, with effect from 1 August 2005, to have an Audit Committee that satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the The Committees standing was strengthened in 2004 by the Exchange Act and the Listing Standards of the New York Stock change in status of the independent majority of its members from Exchange.
The change of status of our Advisory Directors to that Advisory Directors to Non-Executive Directors.
This, combined of Non-Executive Directors with effect from the 2004 Annual with the existence from May 2004 of a majority of Independent General Meetings means that our Audit Committee is already Non-Executive Directors on the Boards of NV and PLC, ensures fully compliant with these requirements.
that Independent Non-Executives control the procedure for nominating the candidates for election as Directors of NV and PLC.
This is reinforced by the members of the Nomination Committee comprising the directors of NV Elma and United Holdings Limited see pages 57 and 58.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 65
