C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:25 AM Page 90 Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in External auditors fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of The report from  conrming Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal their independence and objectivity was reviewed by the control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the Committee.
It also reviewed the audit, audit-related, tax and external auditors performance, qualications and independence, other services provided by , and and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the compliance with Unilevers policy, introduced in January 2002, year ended 31 December 2004 the principal activities of the under which the types of engagements for which the external Committee were as follows: auditors can be used are prescribed.
All non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors were reviewed and Financial statements authorised by the Committee in advance.
For further information, The Committee considered reports from the Financial Director on see page 67. the quarterly and annual financial statements and reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts prior to publication.
It also reviewed The Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the critical accounting policies including proposed changes in effectiveness of the external audit process and held independent accounting principles in response to the changes in Netherlands meetings with the external auditors, and have reported on their and UK law and UK and US GAAP.
Audit of the Annual Accounts The Committee has approved the extension of the current , Unilevers external auditors, reported in external audit contract by one year and recommended to the depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual Boards the reappointment of the external auditors.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and control, and accounting Internal audit function developments.
The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, together Risk management and internal control arrangements with its budget and resource requirements.
The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk management and control, and its processes, outcomes and The Committee approved the appointment of a new Chief disclosure, including specically: Auditor following the scheduled retirement of the previous holder of this post.
Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of Risk Management & Control, and managements response: The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief The Corporate Risk Committees annual report, which included Auditor.
its recommendation for the Boards statement on internal control and its analysis of the 2004 risk assessment process: Audit Committee Charter The reports from the Code of Business Principles Compliance The Committees terms of reference were updated to reect the Committee: revised corporate governance structure with Non-Executive Implementation of recent corporate governance requirements Directors as approved by shareholders in May 2004. as outlined on page 53 : Monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the The Audit Committee Charter terms of reference can be viewed global Ethics hotline which included a procedure for handling on Unilevers website at www.
complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control and auditing matters: The Committee conducted a self-assessment of its own Risks and safeguards from extending the role of the Unilever performance for review with the Boards.
brand: Monitoring progress of the implementation of the requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting: The implications of the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : The experience gained from the setting up of financial shared service centres: and Hilmar Kopper Chairman of the Audit Committee Risk management and goodwill impairment of the Slim Fast Oscar Fanjul business.
Claudio Gonzalez 90 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
