C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:20 AM Page 52 Corporate governance Structure Business organisation Our operations are currently organised into two global divisions Unilever Group Foods and Home and Personal Care headed by Division NV and PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever Group Directors.
These have been supported by their Business of companies.
They are separate companies, with separate stock Presidents, responsible for the profitability of their regional or exchange listings and different shareholders.
Shareholders cannot global businesses.
For details of the Business Presidents, see convert or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other, page 69. and the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, uctuate.
This happens for a number of reasons, including This divisional and regional structure has facilitated complete changes in exchange rates.
However, over time the prices of alignment with the divisional objectives and strategy while NV and PLC shares do stay in close relation to each other, in ensuring that close operational control is maintained within particular because of our arrangements to pay dividends on regions which are largely homogenous.
In 2005 we will introduce a new, simpler structure that comprises NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap three Regions, Europe, The Americas and Asia AMET, whose Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927.
PLC was incorporated managements will be responsible for our market operations, and under the name Lever Brothers Limited in Great Britain in 1894. two category managements, Foods and Home and Personal Care, Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, responsible for innovation and category management.
Our together with their group companies, have operated, as nearly as objective is enhanced clarity of role and responsibility, whilst is practicable, as a single entity.
They have the same Directors, retaining the advantages of control and alignment.
The existing adopt the same accounting principles, and are linked by a series Division and Business Group structures will disappear.
The Equalisation Agreement see below, which structure will be effective from April 2005. regulates the mutual rights of the two sets of shareholders, is particularly important.
Co-operation Under Unilevers constitutional arrangements, NV and PLC have NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Our businesses agreed to follow common policies, to exchange all relevant are carried out by our group companies around the world.
The business information, and to ensure that all group companies act holding companies have agreed to co-operate in all areas and to accordingly.
They aim to co-operate in all areas, including in the ensure all group companies act accordingly.
Usually, shares in the purchase of raw materials and the exchange and use of technical, group companies are held ultimately by either NV or PLC, with financial and commercial information, secret or patented the main exceptions being that the US companies are owned by processes and trade marks.
both and, as a result of the legal integration of Bestfoods into Unilever, a number of the group companies are partly held by These arrangements are designed to create a balance between Unilever United States, Inc.
These group companies are therefore the funds generated by the NV and PLC parts of the Group for also ultimately owned jointly by NV and PLC.
See pages 165 to the benefit of their respective sets of shareholders.
168 for a listing of the Groups principal subsidiaries.
The Equalisation Agreement The Equalisation Agreement makes the position of the Legal structure shareholders of both companies, as far as possible, the same as if they held shares in a single company.
NV shareholders PLC shareholders Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is Directors required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or terminated without the approval of shareholders see page 59.
In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that NV Equalisation PLC PLCs Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that and other agreements the provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards NV owned Jointly owned PLC owned operating operating operating to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or companies companies companies terminated with the approval of the shareholders of both companies.
If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement, shareholders can compel them to do so under Netherlands and United Kingdom law.
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
