C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:21 AM Page 53 Corporate governance continued Under the Equalisation Agreement NV and PLC adopt the same The Board level changes lead to a reduction in the number of financial periods and accounting policies.
Dividends are paid in Executive Directors.
Further information is given in Board changes accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of NV on page 70.
The Governance of Unilever is being revised to and PLCs issued share capital.
Neither company can issue or incorporate these changes, which will include the denition of the reduce capital without the consent of the other.
Further roles and responsibilities of the single Chairman, who will be Noninformation on the Equalisation Agreement is given on page 60.
Executive, and of the single Group Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Director will be made the Vice-Chairman of each of Mutual guarantee of borrowings NV and PLC.
There is also a contractual arrangement between NV and PLC under which each will, if asked by the other, guarantee the The unied Board borrowings of the other.
They can also agree jointly to guarantee The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors.
the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
We use this arrangement, The Chairmen and all of the Directors are Directors of both NV as a matter of financial policy, for certain significant public and PLC.
This ensures unity of governance and of management.
The Boards currently comprise seven Executive Directors and nine independent Non-Executive Directors.
See pages 68 and 69 for These arrangements enable lenders to rely on our combined their biographies and page 70 for the changes planned for 2005. financial strength.
We achieve this unity through provisions in the NV and PLC Corporate governance arrangements Articles of Association governing which persons are eligible to be elected as Directors.
See page 57 for details of our nomination Corporate governance developments in 2004 procedure.
The text that follows describes Unilevers corporate governance arrangements following acceptance by the NV and PLC Board responsibility shareholders of the proposals put to the Annual General Our Boards have ultimate responsibility for the management, Meetings in 2004.
The principal change was to make individuals general affairs, direction and performance of the business as a who were formerly Advisory Directors formal, non-executive whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into members of the Boards of NV and PLC, with full entitlement to account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Nonvote at meetings and responsibility for the actions of the Boards.
The position of Advisory Director ceased.
Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important Full information on our previous arrangements and those changes corporate events and actions, such as: were reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2003 and in the papers relating to the 2004 Annual General Meetings agreement of quarterly results announcements: respectively.
These can be found on the Unilever website at approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: www.
declaration of dividends: nominations for Board appointments: More information on our current corporate governance convening of shareholders meetings: arrangements are set out in The Governance of Unilever, approval of Board Remuneration Policy: which can also be found at approval of corporate strategy: www.
approval of Corporate Annual Plan: review of risks and controls: Corporate governance developments in 2005 authorisation of major transactions: and The text that follows should be read in the light of the changes review of the functioning of the Boards and its Committees.
that are being implemented in 2005.
As indicated in the Chairmens statement on pages 8 and 9, this streamlining of Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility our leadership structure results in the separation of the roles of which are reserved to themselves and other areas for which Chairman and Group Chief Executive and the replacement of the matters are delegated to committees whose actions are regularly Executive Committee and Divisions with a new Executive Team reported to and monitored by the Boards.
These are described in that will report to the Group Chief Executive.
the following section and on page 56.
Shareholders will be asked at the Annual General Meetings Board meetings are held in London and Rotterdam and chaired by in May 2005 to approve the necessary changes to the NV and the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
The Chairmen are assisted by the PLC Articles of Association.
Further details are set out in the Joint Secretaries, who ensure the Boards are supplied with all the Notices of the Meetings and these can also be found at information necessary for their deliberations.
normally supplied during the week prior to each meeting.
Other information is supplied as and when it is available.
The Chairmen and the Joint Secretaries involve the Senior Independent Director see page 55 in the arrangements for Board Meetings.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 53 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 7:30 AM Page 54 Corporate governance continued In 2004, the full Boards of NV and PLC met seven times.
All our A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to Executive Directors attended all seven meetings, except for seek independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
Charles Strauss who missed one meeting prior to his retirement as Appropriate Directors and Ofcers Liability insurance is in place.
During 2004 Non-Executive Directors attended six of the meetings, being the four meetings following their The Executive Directors and the Executive Committee election as Non-Executive Directors in May and two of the three The text that follows describes the arrangements in place earlier meetings, to which they were invited in their former role as throughout 2004 and the first quarter of 2005.
All the Non-Executive Directors attended all six already under Corporate governance developments in 2005 on meetings, except for Professor Dik and Lord Simon who each page 53, significant changes will take place during 2005. missed one meeting, Claudio Gonzalez and Hilmar Kopper who each missed two meetings and Jeroen van der Veer who missed The Chairmen of NV and PLC have been the principal executive four meetings.
These absences were due to conicting ofcers of Unilever.
They and the other Executive Directors are commitments, most notably in the case of Jeroen van der Veer currently full-time executives and have been responsible for the because of his need to attend Board Meetings of Royal Dutch operational management of NV and PLC and the business Petroleum Company, although he was able to meet his enterprise connected therewith.
They have reported regularly commitments to attend all the meetings of the Nomination and on operational management matters to the full Boards.
Our Executive Directors currently hold specic management Directors are elected by shareholders at the Annual General responsibilities through the Executive Committee.
They currently Meetings of NV and PLC, to hold ofce, in principle, until the end comprise all of the top tier of our executives.
of the next Annual General Meetings.
All our Directors submit themselves for re-election each year.
The Executive Committee has been made up of the Chairmen of NV and PLC and five other members: the two Division Directors Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors for Foods and for Home and Personal Care, the Corporate Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities, and Development Director, the Financial Director and the Personnel updates on corporate governance developments and investor Director.
relations matters are frequent items at Board meetings.
Executive Directors regularly visit Unilevers operations around the world and The Executive Committee has been entrusted, within the routinely receive presentations, either as the Boards or as a parameters set out in The Governance of Unilever the Boards member of a Board Committee, on relevant aspects of the statement of their internal arrangements, with all the Boards' Unilever business.
powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the operational management of Unilever.
The performance evaluation of the Boards as a whole in 2004 took the form of a comprehensive survey of the Directors, via It has generally met formally on an approximately monthly basis questionnaire and individual consultation, as to how the and been chaired, alternately, by the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
governance changes approved by the shareholders in May should The Committee has been supplied with information by the be implemented and how the Boards ways of working should be Executive Committee Secretariat, acting under the direction of the changed from those in force previously.
The proposed actions Joint Secretaries.
arising from this survey were considered and approved by the Boards at their meetings in September and are being All of our Executive Directors have been with Unilever full-time for implemented.
The assessment in 2005 will include a review of the at least five years, and in most cases for almost all of their changes in the ways of working, including the evaluation business careers.
For details see page 68. processes that have been set up.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive The performance of the Directors will be evaluated again in the Directors, other executive ofcers see page 57 or Non-Executive course of 2005 by the Non-Executive Chairman and the Senior Directors.
None of our Executive Directors are elected or Independent Director.
appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
Each Board Committee is expected to conduct an annual selfThe Executive Directors are executive ofcers who are full-time assessment of its performance, which includes taking the views of employees and their service contracts are concluded for an the Boards on the performance of the Committee.
They cease to hold executive ofce on ceasing of the Committee reports to the Boards on the results of the to be Directors.
Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest process.
Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or the company.
The Joint Secretaries are available to advise all Directors and ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
They are Information about the service arrangements for our Executive appointed and can be removed by the Boards.
Directors can be seen on the Unilever website at www.
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:21 AM Page 55 Corporate governance continued Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee, and re-engagements and renominations The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution are subject to continued good performance.
of the Boards duties, taking account of their specic responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
They, in Full details of the engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be particular, comprise the principal external presence in the seen on the Unilever website at www.
com ourcompany governance of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
The prole set by the Boards for the See pages 68 and 69 for their biographies.
Non-Executive Directors and the chart used for orderly succession planning can also be seen there.
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Non-Executive Directors are: Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in The Governance of Unilever, which can be seen on the Unilever supervision of and advice to the Executive Committee: website at www.
It is developing strategy with the Executive Committee: derived from the applicable denitions in use in the Netherlands, scrutiny of performance: UK and US.
All our current Non-Executive Directors are considered controls: to be independent of Unilever.
Our Boards reached this reporting of performance: conclusion after conducting a thorough review of all relevant remuneration of and succession planning for Executive relationships the Non-Executive Directors, or their related or Directors: and connected persons, have with NV or PLC.
A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and relevant exist between several of our Non-Executive Directors and experience and international outlook, as well as their independence.
companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory They also form the Audit Committee, the External Affairs and services to Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the Corporate Relations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and number of other companies that also provide or could readily the majority of the Nomination Committee.
The roles and provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those membership of these key Board Committees are described on companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles of page 56. the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the signicance of that role to our Director.
It concluded that none of The Non-Executive Directors meet regularly as a group, without the these relationships threaten the independence of the NonExecutive Directors present, under the chairmanship of the Senior Executive Directors concerned.
Subsequent to the Annual General Meetings in May 2004 they met four times as a group.
In addition, the Boards have satisfied themselves that Lord Brittans position at UBS Investment Bank did not involve him As well as Directors, Non-Executive Directors and the relevant in any way in its broking relationship with Unilever.
They had Board Committee meetings, Non-Executive Directors attend other noted that Lady Chalkers involvement in consultancy services for Directors conferences and quarterly meetings with the Chairmen.
Unilever, as reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts, had been terminated before she was elected a Non-Executive Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed Bertrand Collomb as Director.
The Boards have formed the view that the fact that both Unilevers Senior Independent Director.
He chairs their separate Professor Dik and Mr Burgmans are non-executive directors of meetings and acts as their spokesman.
The Senior Independent ABN-AMRO was not material.
Director is consulted by the Chairmen on the agenda and arrangements for Board Meetings.
He is also, in appropriate At a period of change our Boards wish to benefit from the cases, a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders.
continuity that would be provided by Bertrand Collomb The Boards plan to make Bertrand Collomb Vice-Chairman of NV continuing into a fourth term of three years.
After careful and PLC in 2005. consideration, they have concluded that this should not prevent him from continuing to be regarded as independent.
This opinion Our Non-Executive Directors are engaged by resolutions of the was supported by his subsequent selection by our Non-Executive Boards, normally for an initial term of three to four years and Directors as their Senior Independent Director.
thereafter for terms of three years.
Their terms of engagement are subject to their renomination by the Boards and their reSimilarly, given that Claudio Gonzalez will retire in 2005 because election by shareholders each year.
of the pressure of his other commitments, the Boards have welcomed Oscar Fanjuls preparedness to continue for a tenth Non-Executive Directors normally serve for no more than three year.
This provides continuity on the Audit Committee.
The terms of three years each, although exceptions are made if there Boards have re-afrmed their judgement that he remains are good reasons.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined None of our Non-Executive Directors is elected or appointed by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders, and under any arrangement or understanding.
it is reported on pages 86 and 87.
All engagements and nominations are based on the recommendations of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 55 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:21 AM Page 56 Corporate governance continued Board Committees Nomination Committee The Boards have established the following committees, in Our Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three addition to the Executive Committee discussed above.
All independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmen of NV these committees are formally set up by Board resolution and PLC, and meets at least once a year.
It is chaired by Bertrand with carefully dened remits and they report regularly to Collomb.
Its other members are Antony Burgmans, Patrick the Boards.
The remits can be found on our website at Cescau, Lord Simon and Jeroen van der Veer.
2004 and all the members attended both meetings.
As a result of the changes we are making in 2005, Patrick Cescau will cease to Audit Committee be a member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Hilmar Kopper, and its The Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for the other members are Oscar Fanjul and Claudio Gonzalez.
The positions of Director and, hitherto, Executive Committee member.
Committee met five times in 2004, and the members attended all It also has responsibilities for succession planning and oversight of meetings, save that Claudio Gonzalez was absent for one corporate governance matters.
It is supplied with information by meeting.
Claudio Gonzalez will retire at the Annual General the Joint Secretaries.
Meetings in 2005 and Professor Wim Dik will join the Committee.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that all the members of the See pages 65 and 66 for the Report of the Nomination Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent Committee to the shareholders.
and relevant experience and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Hilmar Kopper is the Committees Remuneration Committee audit committee financial expert.
The Committees meetings are Our Remuneration Committee currently comprises three of our attended, by invitation, by the Financial Director, the General independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Bertrand Counsel, the Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external Collomb.
Its other members are Lord Simon and Jeroen van der auditors.
It met six times in 2004 and Lord Simon missed one meeting.
Our Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilevers financial The Committee reviews Directors remuneration and is responsible statements, risk management and internal control arrangements, for the executive share-based incentive plans.
It determines, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the within the parameters set by our shareholders, specic performance, qualications and independence of the external remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and auditors and the performance of the internal audit function.
The the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws regarding Directors and the tier of management directly below the Executive shareholder approval, for the nomination, compensation and Committee.
The Committee is supplied with information by J A A oversight of the external auditors.
van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
The Audit Committee is fully compliant with the rules regarding The detailed report to shareholders on Directors remuneration is audit committees that are applicable in the Netherlands, UK and on pages 71 to 89.
US and common to all three countries.
The Committees responsibilities and powers are fully aligned with all requirements External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee in the UK and US and all the main requirements in the The External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee currently Netherlands.
However, as indicated under Requirements and comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors and Compliance on page 64, it does not have lead responsibility for normally meets four times a year.
It is chaired by Lady Chalker, certain additional matters specified in the Dutch Corporate and its other members are Lord Brittan and Professor Wim Dik.
Senator George J Mitchell retired as a member in 2004.
Antony Burgmans, in his role as Non-Executive Chairman, will join the The Chief Auditor ensures that the Committee is supplied with Committee in 2005. necessary information.
Both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee separately The Committee oversees our Code of Business Principles, which from management.
sets out the standards of behaviour we require from all of our employees.
It also advises on external matters of relevance to the See page 90 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the business including issues of corporate social responsibility and shareholders.
reviews our corporate relations strategy.
The Committee is supplied with necessary information by the Corporate Development Director.
56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:22 AM Page 57 Corporate governance continued Management Committees disclosed is complete and accurate.
The Committee comprises our The Boards and the Board Committees are assisted by the Joint Secretaries, Treasurer and Controller, who is responsible for following Management Committees.
All these Management the operation of this Committee.
Committees have been formally set up by resolutions of the Executive Committee with carefully dened remits and they report Investment Review Committee regularly.
This Committees remit covers the nancing and investment aspects of our pension funds.
It also sets the policies for the Code of Business Principles Compliance Committee management of the inherent risks in the nancing and investment This Committee is responsible for monitoring and reporting on aspects of our pension plans and oversees compliance with these compliance with the Code of Business Principles.
The Committee is the responsibility of the Financial Secretaries are responsible for the operation of this Committee.
Director and, in addition, comprises our Head of Corporate Pensions, Personnel Director, Treasurer and General Counsel.
The other members of the Committee are the Chief Auditor, Senior Vice President Human Resources Management Routine Business Committees Development and Head of Corporate Relations Department.
The Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and Committee meets quarterly, and has reported regularly to the when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and to the Boards.
and certain senior executives and company ofcers.
They administer certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the Corporate Risk Committee Executive Committee.
The Joint Secretaries are responsible for the Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 92. operation of these committees.
Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the Group to manage risk resides with the Corporate Risk Committee.
Directors various formal matters The objective of the Committee is to assist the Boards to carry out In the case of a conict of interest between Unilever and any of their responsibilities to ensure effective risk management and our Directors, all applicable laws, regulations and corporate systems of control.
It has reported to the Executive Committee governance codes are complied with.
As a formal matter, under and, as relevant, to the Audit Committee.
The Committee is Dutch law Directors are able to vote on transactions in which they supplied with information by the Controller.
The Committee are materially interested so long as they are acting in good faith.
currently comprises the Financial Director, the Foods Director, the In general, PLC Directors cannot vote in respect of contracts in Home and Personal Care Director, the Personnel Director, the which they know they are materially interested, unless, for General Counsel, the Chief Auditor and the Controller.
It meets at example, their interest is shared with other shareholders and least four times a year.
The specic responsibilities of the Committee are, currently, The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not as follows: limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the Identication of risks of Corporate signicance, communicating Adjusted Capital and Reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of them to Divisions, Business Groups and Corporate Association, without the sanction of an ordinary resolution.
Departments, and ensuring progress on action plans to address the identied risks.
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors Monitoring completeness of the annual Positive Assurance of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
The process, reviewing the Positive Assurance returns from remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors Divisions, Business Groups and Corporate Departments and contain requirements for the holding and retention of shares see reporting on them to the Boards to assist in their assessment of the Remuneration report on page 72. the effectiveness of risk management and internal control.
The Positive Assurance process comprises the Business Risk Other executive ofcers Assessment, conrmation of compliance with the Code of Our executive ofcers, other than the Executive Directors, are also Business Principles and Corporate Policies and the Operational full-time employees and appointed for an indefinite period.
other executive ofcers are the corporate ofcers listed on page 69.
Oversight of Division and Business Group Risk Committees, including ensuring that progress is made on action plans None of our other executive ofcers are elected or appointed reported to the Corporate Risk Committee as part of the under any arrangement or understanding.
Nominations to the Boards Disclosures Committee In order to try to ensure that NV and PLC have the same This Committee is responsible for helping the Boards ensure that Directors, only the holders of NVs special shares see page 132 financial and other information that ought to be disclosed publicly can nominate candidates for election to the NV Board, and only is disclosed in a timely manner and that the information that is the holders of PLCs deferred stock see page 132 can nominate candidates for election to the PLC Board.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 57
