Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 50 Corporate Governance representation by directors or significant shareholders who may feel inhibited from Introduction raising issues with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual The directors of the Company support high standards of corporate governance, which review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in the Company.
convening an annual meeting of the non-executive directors.
The Companys Business Principles the Principles define its relationships with its Sir Christopher Gent retired as a director at the conclusion of the AGM on stakeholders and govern how Vodafone conducts its business.
Dr John Buchanan and Luc Vandevelde joined the Board as nonthe Principles state that the Company expects all its employees to act with honesty, executive directors on 1 April 2003 and 1 September 2003, respectively.
The Company also promotes the Principles to its associate Company considers all its present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
The companies where Vodafone holds a minority stake and to its business partners and executive directors are Arun Sarin Chief Executive, Julian Horn-Smith, Peter Bamford, suppliers.
Vittorio Colao, Thomas Geitner and Ken Hydon.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the United Kingdom on the London Stock The Companys Articles of Association provide that every director who was elected or Exchange.
As such, the Company is required to make a disclosure statement last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current concerning its application of the Principles of and compliance with the provisions of year shall automatically retire.
Accordingly, Peter Bamford, Julian Horn-Smith and the Combined Code on corporate governance that is appended to the Financial Sir David Scholey will be retiring and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reServices Authoritys Listing Rules.
election at the Companys AGM to be held on 27 July 2004.
The Companys Articles of During the year, the Financial Reporting Council, which is responsible for maintaining Association also provide that every director appointed to the Board since the last AGM the Combined Code, approved a revised Combined Code taking into account the shall retire.
Therefore, Luc Vandevelde will retire and, being eligible, will offer himself recommendations of the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive for re-election.
directors and a separate report by Sir Robert Smith in relation to Audit Committees.
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual directors takes The revised Combined Code became effective for companies financial periods place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of the beginning on or after 1 November 2003, and therefore, for the Company, will apply Nominations and Governance Committee.
The Chairman leads the assessment of the from the financial year which began on 1 April 2004. non-executive directors, the Chief Executive reviews the executive directors and the senior independent director conducts the review of the performance of the Chairman.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2004, the directors confirm that the Company Each Board Committee undertakes a review of its work and in relation to the has been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code effective for that performance of the Board, the Chairman invites suggestions from all directors as to accounting period.
The disclosures provided below are nevertheless intended to ways in which the Board and its processes may be improved.
A series of provide the reader with an explanation of how the Companys corporate governance questionnaires is being developed to facilitate the evaluation processes for the current practices measure against the revised Combined Code as if it were currently in effect and future years, each of which has been, and will in the future be, conducted without for the Company.
the assistance of external consultants.
The Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs are listed on the NYSE and the This year particular attention was paid to the contributions made by directors requiring Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws to offer themselves for re-election at the AGM and the Nominations and Governance and the rules of the SEC.
Pursuant to recently revised NYSE corporate governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the performance of each such director rules, Vodafone, as a foreign private issuer, is required to summarise significant continued to be effective and, therefore, the Company should support their re-election.
differences between the corporate governance provisions of the NYSE applicable to US companies and the corporate governance principles applicable to it and followed by it The Board met on eight occasions in the financial year to 31 March 2004.
In compliance with the new rules, the Company will provide an appropriate directors attendance was: Lord MacLaurin 8, Paul Hazen 7, Arun Sarin 8, summary in its Annual Report for the year ending 31 March 2005.
In July 2002, the Julian Horn-Smith 8, Peter Bamford 7, Vittorio Colao 8, Thomas Geitner 8, US Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which, together with consequent Ken Hydon 8, Dr Michael Boskin 8, Professor Sir Alec Broers 8, Penny Hughes 8, adoption of new rules by the SEC, has introduced a number of changes to the Sir David Scholey 8, Dr John Buchanan 8 and Professor Jrgen Schrempp 6. corporate governance requirements on both US domestic companies and non-US Since Mr Vandevelde joined the Board there have been six Board meetings in the registered issuers such as the Company.
During 2003, the Company established a financial year and he attended five.
In addition to the regular Board meetings, there Disclosure Committee with responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and were a number of other meetings to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information, and other attend a Board meeting because of another engagement, as was the case for four procedures necessary to enable the Chief Executive and Financial Director to provide directors in the year, are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information their Certifications of the Annual Report on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
The relevant for such meeting and are able to discuss issues arising in the meeting with Company also adopted a corporate code of ethics for senior financial officers, the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
separate from and additional to the Principles.
A copy of the code of ethics and the The Board provides the effective leadership and control required for a listed company.
Principles are available on the Companys website www.
The Company Actual financial results are presented to each meeting, together with reports from the has already begun the work required to ensure compliance with section 404 of the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility.
The Chief Executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is required in its financial year ending 31 March 2006. presents his report to each meeting which deals, amongst other things, with investor relations, giving Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of the Directors and Organisation views of major investors.
From time to time, the Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or on new opportunities for the The Companys Board of directors presently consists of fifteen directors, fourteen of Group.
Financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, are regularly discussed at whom served throughout the year ended 31 March 2004.
As at 31 March 2004, in Board meetings.
The non-executive directors periodically visit different parts of the addition to the Chairman, Lord MacLaurin, there were six executive directors and eight Group and are provided with briefings and information to assist them in performing non-executive directors.
The Deputy Chairman, Paul Hazen, is the nominated senior independent director and his role includes being available for approach or Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 51 their duties.
The non-executive directors and the Chairman regularly meet without Solely for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 executives present.
and the Combined Code, the Board has designated Dr John Buchanan as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details of Dr Buchanan can be found in The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, talent and experience Directors and Senior Management.
to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
On appointment, all directors are provided with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things, to responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public and listed company and also oversee the relationship with the external auditors, to review the Companys have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters preliminary results, interim results and annual financial statements, to monitor with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
When considered compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any exchange on which the necessary, more formal training is provided.
Companys shares are quoted, to review the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Audit Department, to engage independent advisers as it The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision, determines is necessary and to perform investigations.
At least twice a year the Audit including the approval of Group commercial strategy, major capital projects, the Committee meets separately with the external auditors and the Group Audit Director adoption of any significant change in accounting policies or practices and material without management being present.
Further details on the overseeing of the contracts not in the ordinary course of business.
This schedule is reviewed relationships with the external auditors can be found under Directors Report Auditors.
It was last reviewed and updated by the Nominations and Governance Committee in March 2004 and its proposals were approved by the Board in May The Nominations and Governance Committee formerly the Nominations Committee 2004.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary met three times in the year and is chaired by Lord MacLaurin 3.
The other members and have resolved to ensure the provision, to any director who believes it may be of the Committee are Professor Sir Alec Broers 3, Arun Sarin, Paul Hazen 3, required in the furtherance of his or her duties, of independent professional advice at Sir David Scholey 3 and Professor Jrgen Schrempp 2.
Arun Sarin has attended the cost of the Company.
both of the meetings held since he joined the Committee.
Sir Christopher Gent was a member of the Committee prior to his retirement and attended the one meeting held The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and prior to that date.
The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure regional Chief Executives, meet on ten occasions each year as the Group Executive for the appointment of new directors to the Board, generally engages external Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
This Committee is consultants to advise on prospective Board appointees.
This year, the Committee responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, the overall recommended the appointment of a further non-executive director.
A detailed job financial performance of the Group in fulfilment of strategy, plans and budgets and profile was agreed by the Committee before external search consultants were Group capital structure and funding.
It also reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
engaged to prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable candidates.
Only after a rigorous Two management committees, the Group Operational Review Committee and the interview process was the appointment recommended to the Board.
Group Policy Committee, oversee, together with the Group Executive Committee, the The Committees name was changed during the financial year to reflect its remit, execution of the Boards strategy and policy.
which over time had come to include oversight and review of general matters of The Group Operational Review Committee, which meets ten times a year under the corporate governance.
chairmanship of the Group Chief Operating Officer, comprises other executive The Remuneration Committee met five times in the year.
The Committee is chaired by directors, certain Group functional heads and regional Chief Executives.
The other members of the Committee are Lord MacLaurin 5, Committee is responsible for the operational performance and achievement of targets Michael Boskin 4 Professor Jrgen Schrempp 4, and Luc Vandevelde.
of the Groups business, with a focus on the enhancement of voice services and Sir David Scholey was a member of the Committee until 16 September 2003 and growth of non-voice services, new global products and services, brand development, attended both meetings held prior to that date.
Mr Vandevelde joined the Committee technology and other cost and revenue synergies within the Groups regions.
on 16 September 2003 and attended the three meetings held between that date and The Group Policy Committee, which meets six times each year, is chaired by the Chief 31 March 2004.
The Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration Executive.
The Financial Director and the Group Chief Operating Officer, together with provides further information on this Committee.
certain other Group functional heads, join him on the Committee, which is responsible Attendance is shown in brackets after each respective Committee member.
for the determination of policy and the monitoring of non-operational areas of activity which are important to the Group overall, including strategy, finance, human resources, legal, regulatory and corporate affairs.
Internal Control and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Committees of the Board Introduction The standing Board committees are the Audit Committee, the Nominations and The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance, Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The composition and terms Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, for the year under of reference of these committees are published on the Companys website at review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
These procedures, which are www.
The Secretary to these standing Board Committees is the subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Company Secretary or his nominee.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee, which met on five occasions in the year, is comprised of Responsibility financially literate members having the necessary ability and experience to understand The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
The Committee is chaired by Paul Hazen 5 and the other of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to members of the Committee are Michael Boskin 5, Professor Sir Alec Broers, achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Dr John Buchanan 4 and Sir David Scholey 4.
There have been three meetings of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks the Committee since Professor Sir Alec Broers joined.
Due to other business commitments arranged before he joined the Committee, he attended one of these.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 52 Corporate Governance continued associated with social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed under The Chief Executive and the Financial Director undertake a review of the quality and Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Issues.
timeliness of disclosures that includes formal annual meetings with the regional chief executives and the Disclosure Committee.
Control structure A Group Audit Department, reporting directly to the Audit Committee, undertakes The Board sets the policy on internal control that is implemented by management.
periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis and reports on controls This is achieved through a clearly defined operating structure with lines of throughout the Group.
The Group Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, manages this on a day-to-day basis.
Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on certain internal controls and relevant financial reporting matters, are presented to the Audit Committee and Written policies and procedures have been issued which clearly define the limits of management.
delegated authority and provide a framework for management to deal with areas of significant business risk.
These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where Review of effectiveness necessary, updated at Group Policy Committee meetings, chaired by the Chief The directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director consider that any controls Executive.
and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
Control environment The Groups management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered information to the directors.
This system is properly documented and regularly acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in reviewed.
identifying the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and subject to review by both of risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls regional management and the directors.
Forecasts are revised on a quarterly basis are proportionate to the benefit.
When setting budgets and forecasts, management The directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director confirm that they have identifies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business risks.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and the disclosure controls The Group Operational Review Committee, the Group Executive Committee and the and procedures through the monitoring process set out above.
The Chief Executive Board review management reports on the financial results and key operating statistics.
and the Financial Director have evaluated the disclosure controls and procedures as of Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees with the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
They are not aware of any continuing education, training and development actively encouraged through a wide significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal control.
The variety of schemes and programmes.
The Group has adopted a set of values to act as directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director have concluded that the a framework for its people to exercise judgement and make decisions on a consistent disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the year under review and to the basis.
date of approval of the Annual Report.
During the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes in the Directors are appointed to associated undertakings and joint ventures and attend the Companys internal controls over financial reporting or in other factors that have Board meetings and review the key financial information of those undertakings.
Clear materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal controls over guidance is given to those directors on the preparation that should take place before financial reporting.
these Board meetings and their activity at the Board meeting.
It is the Groups policy that its auditors are appointed as auditors of associated companies and joint ventures, where possible.
Relations with Shareholders The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial The Company holds briefing meetings with its major institutional shareholders in the implications of the acquisition and key performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis takes UK, the US and in Continental Europe, usually twice each year after the interim results place of the key assumptions made in the analysis.
Post investment appraisals of the and preliminary announcement, to ensure that the investing community receives a Groups investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the issues faced by the A Treasury Report is distributed electronically on a daily basis that reports on treasury Group.
Telecommunications analysts of stockbrokers are also invited to presentations borrowings and investments.
The Company, through its Investor Relations team, responds to enquiries from shareholders.
The Board reviews a half-yearly report detailing any significant legal actions faced by Group companies.
The principal communication with private investors is through the provision of the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement, the interim results and the AGM, an The Group Policy Committee monitors legal, environmental and regulatory matters and occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors and at which all approves appropriate responses or amendments to existing policy.
shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Monitoring and review activities Board as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting Governance Committees.
All substantive resolutions at the Companys AGMs are any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
The poll is conducted by the Companys Registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in relation to all resolutions are A formal annual confirmation is provided by the chief executive officer and chief disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are financial officer of each Group company detailing the operation of their control published in national newspapers in the UK, the US and Ireland, on the Companys systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
Regional management, the Audit website and announced via the regulatory news service.
Financial and other Committee and the Board review the results of this confirmation.
information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 53 External Auditors Report from the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming their The composition and terms of reference of the Audit Committee is discussed under independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed and pre-approved the scope of nonCommittees of the Board.
audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there was no During the year ended 31 March 2004 the principal activities of the Committee were impairment of independence.
as follows: The Committee pre-approved the scope and fees for audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP and confirmed the wording of the recommendations put by Financial Statements the Board to the shareholders on the appointment and retention of the external The Committee considered reports from the Financial Director and the Group auditors.
Financial Controller on the interim results, preliminary announcement and Annual Report.
It also considered reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, Private meetings were held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there were no on the scope and outcome of the review of interim results and annual audit.
restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items the auditors did not wish to raise with management present.
The financial statements were reviewed in the light of these reports and the results of that review reported to the Board.
Internal Audit The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Group Audit departments Risk Management and Internal Control audit plan for the year, together with its resource requirements.
Private meetings The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control were held with the Group Audit Director.
environment and its risk assessment process, and the way in which significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit departments Audit Committee Effectiveness reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant frauds and any fraud that The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually and involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
concluded this year that it was effective and able to fulfil its terms of reference.
The Committee also reviewed and approved arrangements by which staff could in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial s reporting or other matters.
This was achieved through using existing reporting procedures and introducing a website with a dedicated anonymous email feature.
Paul Hazen On behalf of the Audit Committee
