Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice Rotation of directors 52 The company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of Under the Articles of Association of the company, each director retires the Code of Best Practice and the Principles of Good Governance set out at the third annual general meeting after the general meeting at which he in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Board effectiveness Non-executive directors The directors listed on page 57 constituted the Board throughout the The Board considers that Sir Derek Higgs, Michael Cassidy, year, except that Cyril Metliss retired from the Board on 18 July 2003.
The Robert Swannell, Lord Burns, David Michels and Dr Christopher Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meetings Gibson-Smith are independent non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Higgs as required by the ongoing business of the company.
There is a formal and Lord Burns are proposed for re-election by shareholders, having schedule of matters reserved for Board decisions.
been re-elected previously at the Annual General Meeting in 2001.
Their As required for Combined Code compliance in companies where the details are set out on page 57. chairman and managing director roles are combined, there is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company as shown in Remuneration policy and Committee the details of directors on page 57, and a strong and independent Details of the Group remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration non-executive element on the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51.
Committees are entirely composed of independent non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Higgs is Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Investor Relations Remuneration Committee.
Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith is the Senior The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private non-executive director.
Lord Burns is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
investors and has a proactive approach to its relationship with them.
There is a regular two-way communication with investors and analysts Nomination Committee as well as presentations after the interim and preliminary results and The Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommensite visits.
dations to the Board on all new Board appointments, consists of the six The website www.
com enables all shareholders to access non-executive directors together with John Ritblat and John Weston the results presentations and detailed information on the company and Smith.
Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith is Chairman of the Nomination its portfolio.
Shareholders are invited to write in to the Chairman or any other During the year the Nomination Committee has conducted an director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time.
extensive search, with the help of consultants Whitehead Mann, to select Shareholders can also attend the Annual General Meeting AGM at a new Chief Executive.
The Board had identified a suitable candidate which they have an opportunity to ask questions and the Chairman and thought that it had settled detailed terms with him but, very much presents a review of the results and the current business activity.
The to the Boards regret, on 13 May 2004, the candidate informed the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees are company that he had decided to withdraw for reasons not connected also available at AGMs to take any relevant questions.
The Nomination Committee has already reinstigated the search and the company will make an announcement when the process is complete.
Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2004 where is shown, the Director listed is not a member of the Committee Nomination Audit Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee John Ritblat 43 Sir Derek Higgs 43 4 Cyril Metliss 0 John Weston Smith 53 Nicholas Ritblat 4 Michael Cassidy 53 Robert Bowden 4 Robert Swannell 53 Lord Burns 52 3 4 Graham Roberts 5 Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith 43 3 3 David Michels 22 3 4 Number of meetings during the year 5 3 3 4 One meeting held during Board membership to 18 July 2003.
Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC Going concern With respect to other services provided by the auditors the following 53 After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give rise framework is in place: to significant financial exposure, the directors are satisfied that no material or significant exposures exist other than as reflected in these Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms financial statements and that the Group has adequate resources to providing audit related services, which include formal reporting continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their Statement of directors responsibilities office or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
In other The directors are required to prepare financial statements which comply circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: with the Companies Act 1985 on a going concern basis unless Tax Advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that provide inappropriate and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of tax advisory services, including the preparation and submission the company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the of tax returns.
The selection depends on who is best suited in the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the circumstances: directors are required to: General Consulting the auditors do not provide general consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then only after select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: consideration that they are best placed to provide the service and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that their independence and objectivity would not be compromised.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out on page 72. financial statements: and The company employs ATIS REAL Weatheralls as External Valuers prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it to provide an independent valuation for accounting purposes of the is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Groups properties and their report for the wholly owned properties is produced on page 42.
CB Richard Ellis BV and Jones Lang LaSalle value The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate the Groups overseas properties and FPD Savills value certain residential accounting records have been maintained and that reasonable proproperties.
The instructions to ATIS REALWeatheralls are in accordance cedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal Institution of and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Chartered Surveyors and appear on page 44.
ATIS REALWeatheralls do The directors are also responsible for the Groups system of internal not act in any other capacity for British Land.
controls, which is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved by risks to which it is exposed.
the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of changing requirements and best practice.
Auditors and valuers The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The Committee is specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness of the audit.
The British Land Company PLC Corporate Governance Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management Business strategy Internal control 54 British Lands opportunistic but risk-averse strategy seeks to achieve The companys management structure and internal control environment long-term growth in shareholder value by: is influenced by British Lands nature as an entrepreneurial property company.
As such it is a capital rather than people intensive business focusing on prime assets in the office and retail sectors: with assets under management of 11.9 billion, managed by a Group creating exceptional long-term investments with strong covenants, executive of approximately 60 people.
Entrepreneurial success requires long lease profiles and growth potential: speed of action to catch the moment in the markets to buy or sell enhancing property returns through active management and property, to raise funds on the best terms.
development: and The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound maximising equity returns through optimal financing and joint system of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal ventures.
control provisions of the Combined Code through a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group The key to high returns is flexibility, both in terms of business organisation faces.
The process has been in place throughout the year from the start and financing to take advantage of shifts in the property market.
of the year to the date of approval of this report and is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Risks and rewards published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups The company generates profits for shareholders through long-term system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a investment decisions relating to both income and capital growth.
These system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure decisions include exploiting opportunities arising out of natural market to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not volatility with respect to supply and demand imbalances in the following absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
core areas: The Group applies two fundamental control principles: demand for space from occupiers against available supply including new developments : a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: and differential pricing for premium locations and buildings: a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no commitments alternative use for buildings particularly redevelopment : are entered into without competent and proper authorisation by more demand for returns from investors in property, compared to other than one approved executive.
asset classes: price differentials for capital to finance the business: In compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board legislative incentives, including planning consents and taxation continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal such as the Governments consultation on introducing a tax control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of the internal transparent property vehicle REIT in the UK : control system that operated throughout the period covered by the economic cycles, including their impact on tenant covenant quality, accounts are described below: interest rates and inflation: and mis-pricing of property assets by the equity markets for example, Identification and evaluation of commercial risks and share buy-backs or opportunistic investments.
related control objectives British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, These opportunities can also represent risks.
Demand for property and which has identified some 50 individual risks that affect the Group.
the ability of tenants to pay rent can be affected by general economic The responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly conditions at both a macro and local level.
Excessive levels of supply of identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors and property can also lead to falling rental levels.
Rising interest rates may senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have close impact the security of the tenant base, lower development margins involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
In significantly and reduce investment appetite.
Property values are also addition to the main Board of Directors, there are operational boards affected by changes in planning, taxes, technology and lease structures.
which are responsible for specific areas of the Groups activities.
Interest rates, bond yields and the relative attractions of other asset classes also impact property values.
These risks in the UK property sector can be amplified by development exposure and gearing.
Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management The British Land Company PLC Property development risk These include: 55 Principal risks Letting risk for speculative developments: construction cost and time Group management and operations: management of property assets: overruns: adverse changes in planning and or planning policy which may cause delay and affect profitability.
management of development activities: and financing activities.
Principal controls The Board and the operational boards consider the risk implications of These include limiting the amount of speculative development: assessing letting potential and prospective profitability of developments business decisions.
These include matters such as new treasury products and major transactions.
The control environment is supported prior to commencement of construction: on-going assessment of development expenditure by quantity surveyors with regular compariby the various committees of the Board and the operational boards, including the Audit Committee, the Environment and Society Committee sons of costs against budget: and ensuring executives are kept up to date with planning policies.
The way each risk is managed within the Group is considered at least annually by the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
The Group re-assesses these risks on a regular Taxation risk basis to ensure that any risks arising from changes in the Groups Principal risks operations or the external environment are identified and appropriately The Group is exposed to financial risks from increases in tax rates managed.
The detailed individual risks have been categorised into the and changes to the basis of taxation including corporation tax, VAT and following areas: stamp duty.
property investment and management: Principal controls property development: These include regular monitoring of legislative proposals and particitaxation: pation in discussions with Government directly and through trade bodies management: and to understand and, if possible, mitigate the impact of changes and the financing.
engagement of experienced executives and professional advice.
Management risk In order to provide relevant and timely information to the executives with responsibility for managing risks the Group has the following key Principal risks The Group is reliant on its small, high calibre team of executives.
information systems which generate reports as follows: Principal controls a management reporting system which includes regular working capital reports and forecasts: These include the assurance that knowledge of all processes and projects is shared by at least two employees: that the Group recruits operational reporting on property purchases, sales and portfolio management: and and develops high calibre employees: and that the Board considers succession planning issues.
regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
Financing risk The nature of the specific risk areas and related controls are as follows: Financing policy and risk management are dealt with in the next section.
Property investment and management risk Principal risks Property values may decline and returns not be optimised: uneconomic Monitoring The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has investments may be made or under-performing properties retained: significant tenant defaults may reduce income and property values: and reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups processes property insurance may be inadequate.
and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly Principal controls These include regular reviews of current and future market potential: to the Audit Committee.
reviews of each individual property at least two times a year including internal and external assessments, considering current and future values and yield prospects as the basis of sell or hold decisions: benchmarking portfolio performance against peer groups using IPD statistics: consideration of tenant mix covenant strength across the portfolio: and reviewing insurance cover.
The British Land Company PLC Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management
