Governance Report The Combined Code The Board has a formal schedule of Senior independent director The Board is responsible for the govermatters reserved to it, which ensures Mr Boyes is the senior independent finance of the Company, governance that it takes all major strategy, policy director.
The terms of reference of the being the systems and procedures by and investment decisions affecting senior independent director are that which the Company is directed and the Group.
In particular it is responsible his primary duty is to ensure that the controlled.
A prescribed set of rules for mergers, acquisitions, divestments, views of each non-executive director does not itself determine good goverrisk management and for the develare given due consideration.
Other finance or stewardship of a company.
opment of Group policies in a number duties of the post include the authority In fulfilling their responsibilities, the of areas, including health and safety to call a meeting of the non-executive directors believe that they govern the and social, environmental and ethical directors if he feels it to be necessary.
Company in the best interests of issues.
shareholders, whilst having due regard Board balance to the interests of other stakeholders The Board has adopted a procedure The Board aims to maintain a balin the Group including, in particular, enabling directors to obtain indepance of executive and non-executive customers and employees.
In addition, endent professional advice, at the directors.
There are presently four the policy of the Board is to manage cost of the Company where appropexecutive and four non-executive the affairs of the Company in accordriate.
The Board also has access to the directors including the Chairman.
The ance with the codes of corporate services of the Company Secretary Board believes that this balance is the governance and best practice promwho is responsible to the Board for appropriate one to enable it to resulgated from time to time by the ensuring that Board procedures are pond flexibly and speedily to the Financial Services Authority.
For the followed and that applicable rules needs of the Company in the commyear to 31 December 2004 the relevand regulations are complied with.
ercial environment in which it operant code is the Combined Code The appointment or removal of the ates.
The directors have a wide and issued by the Financial Services AuthCompany Secretary is a matter diverse range of business experience ority in July 2003 the 2003 Code.
reserved for the decision of the Board.
and expertise as their biographies demonstrate.
All non-executive directThe Board is committed to high standThe Board has established a governors are independent and free from ards of corporate performance.
ance framework which encourages any business or other relationship that During the year to 31 December all directors to bring an independent could compromise their judgement.
2004 the Company introduced new judgement to bear on issues of stratprocedures to ensure that, by the egy, performance, resources, includIn respect of the year to 31 December end of the year, it was able to report ing key appointments, and standards 2004 the Board has carried out a formcompliance in all respects with the of conduct.
al and rigorous evaluation of its own provisions of the 2003 Code other performance and that of its committthan the principle regarding Board On appointment, directors are briefed ees and individual directors.
The dirbalance, the explanation for which is regarding the activities of the Group ectors completed detailed appraisals set out below.
This statement, together and the Company Secretary ensures on matters relevant to the Board, its with the Directors Remuneration that a new director has access to committees and director performreport on pages 27 to 33, describes appropriate training or advice in relatance.
A report was presented to and the way in which these principles of ion to the duties of directors.
Various action governance are applied within the plans will be developed in response Company.
Chairman and Chief Executive to its recommendations.
The Board Separate individuals have been appintends to carry out further performThe Board ointed to the positions of Non-Executance evaluations on an annual basis.
The Board is scheduled to meet eight ive Chairman and of Chief Executive.
times each year with additional meetThe Chairman is primarily responsible Supply of information ings called if required.
During the year for the working of the Board.
The Chief The quality of the contribution that to 31 December 2004 the Board met Executive is responsible for running the directors, particularly non-executives, eight times, with all directors attending business and for implementing Board can make is directly dependent on each of those meetings.
the quality of the information they Annual Report 2004 23 Governance Report continued receive.
Accordingly, all directors ants where necessary.
The Committee receive comprehensive information did not feel it to be necessary to use on a regular basis.
Board papers are external recruitment consultants when normally distributed at least a week in recommending the appointment of advance of the relevant meeting to Sir Mark Wrightson.
Following such allow sufficient time for directors to be appointment, the director is required fully briefed.
The papers are sufficiently to retire and seek re-election at the detailed to enable the directors to next Annual General Meeting.
The obtain a thorough grasp of the manArticles of Association require that agement and financial performance one-third of all directors retire and of the Company and the operating seek re-election at each Annual businesses.
Minutes of meetings are General Meeting, and that no director circulated to all Board members.
serves for more than three years without being proposed for re-election at The ECGs and committees an Annual General Meeting.
Control of operational matters is delegated to four Executive Control The members of the Nomination Groups ECGs, one for each of the committee, which meets on an ad-hoc Cellular Polymers and Nonwovens basis, are the non-executive directors, divisions and two for the Industrial all of whom are independent.
Each ECG meets Chief Executive is invited to attend.
bi-monthly and comprises senior execThe written terms of reference of the utives of the major businesses within Committee state that it is responsible each division.
The meetings are for considering making recommendchaired by the appropriate executive ations to the Board on all new appdirector and are attended by the ointments to the Board and on the Finance Director and the Chief ExecBoards composition and balance utive to ensure a strong link between generally, and are available on the strategy and implementation.
The Committee is authorised to obtain outside indepThe Board has formally delegated endent professional advice relevant specific responsibilities to Board to its duties whenever it feels it is committees, including the Audit, necessary to do so.
The Committee met twice in 2004 and all members attended each meeting.
The roles of the Audit and Remuneration committees are described on Job descriptions have been estabpages 26, 28 and 29. lished for each executive director which are agreed annually with the Nomination committee and Nomination committee.
appointments to the Board The Board initially appoints all new Appointments to Boards directors, having first considered recof other companies ommendations made to it by the Certain non-executive directors are Nomination committee, which is also directors of other listed compchaired by Mr Cotterill.
The Committee anies as set out in their respective takes advice from a variety of sources biographies.
It is the policy of the and uses external recruitment consultBoard that executive directors should 24 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com accept appointments to the Boards of Board to gain an understanding of keeps accounting records which disother companies, whether listed or investors priorities.
close, with reasonable accuracy at unlisted, only with the prior approval any time, the Companys and the of the Chairman.
The Annual General Meeting Groups financial position and which The Board encourages shareholders enable them to ensure that the finanShareholders publications to exercise their right to vote at the cial statements comply with the and the web Annual General Meeting.
The directors The interim report, the annual report calling the meeting is comprised withalso have a general legal responsibility and the Companys website are the in the annual report and separate for taking such steps as are reasonably primary means by which the Board resolutions are proposed on each subopen to them to safeguard the communicates during the year with stantially separate issue.
Presentations Companys and the Groups assets all the Company's shareholders.
The are made on the progress and perand to prevent and detect fraud and Board recognises the growing importformance of the business immediately other irregularities.
ance of the internet as a means of preceding the formal business of the communicating widely, quickly and meeting.
Shareholders are encourThe external auditors statement cost-effectively.
Information about the aged to participate and individual about its reporting responsibilities is set Company is available 24 hours-a-day, directors or, where appropriate, the out on page 60. worldwide at www.
Chairman of the relevant committee, Financial news releases are made respond to their questions directly.
The Financial reporting and going concern available on the site at the same Chairman discloses to the meeting the In presenting the annual and interim time as releases through other news number of proxy votes received for financial statements and similar signifchannels.
and against each resolution following icant publications, the directors aim to the show of hands on that resolution.
present a balanced and understandThe directors have a responsibility for Shareholders have the opportunity to able assessment of the Companys the maintenance and integrity of the talk informally to the directors before and the Groups position and proswebsite.
Legislation in the United and after the formal proceedings.
The directors have adopted the Kingdom governing the preparation going concern basis in preparing the and dissemination of financial stateStatement of directors responsibilities financial statements.
This is based ments may differ from legislation in for the financial statements upon a review of the Groups budget other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for prepfor 2005, the investment programme, aring, in accordance with the Comptogether with the available cash, Institutional shareholders anies Act 1985, financial statements committed and anticipated borrowThere is a planned, ongoing progfor each financial year which give a ing lines.
The Board also took into ramme of investor meetings and prestrue and fair view of the Companys account contingent liabilities and entations which take place throughand the Groups state of affairs as at other risk factors as interpreted by the out the year.
During the year, represthe end of the financial year, and of Guidance on Going Concern and entatives of the Board met or had the profit or loss and cash flows of the Financial Reporting for Directors of telephone conferences with different Group for the financial year.
Listed Companies registered in the funds, representing approximately 55% United Kingdom published in of the Company's issued share capital.
The directors consider that, in prepNovember 1994.
This, together with regular announcearing the financial statements, the ments of significant events affecting Group has used appropriate accountInternal control system - the Group and updates on current ing policies, consistently applied and evaluating and managing risk trading, emphasises our commitment supported by reasonable judgements The Board is responsible for the to keep our investors informed of and estimates.
All applicable accounGroups internal control framework developments affecting the Group.
ting standards have been followed.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board regards this programme Throughout the year under review and as important to improve investors The directors have a legal responsibup to the date of this report, the Board awareness of the business and for the ility for ensuring that the Company has operated procedures meeting the Annual Report 2004 25 Governance Report continued the Committee.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys Key features of the internal control system: website.
A control environment with clearly defined organisation structures operating within a framework of policies and procedures covering every The Audit committee reviews the aspect of the business: internal and external audit activities, monitors compliance with statutory Comprehensive business planning and financial reporting procedures requirements for financial reporting including the annual preparation of detailed operational budgets for and reviews the half-year and annual the year ahead and projections for subsequent years: financial statements before they are A regular Board review of key performance indicators to assess progress submitted to the Board.
It also reviews, towards objectives: at least annually, the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems Bi-monthly meetings of the ECGs, which include monitoring of risks in including financial, operational and the operating businesses and assessments of their performance against compliance controls and risk managebudgets: ment procedures.
It considers reports A strong internal audit function to provide independent scrutiny of internfrom the internal and external audital control systems and risk management procedures: ors and from management, and reports and makes recommendations An annual risk assessment exercise involving self-assessment by manageto the Board.
ment of all business risks in terms of impact, likelihood and control strength and an objective challenge of that assessment by the internal The Audit committee also keeps under audit team and ECGs: review the scope and results of the Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits and subexternal audit and its cost effectiveject to regular reporting requirements and audit reviews: and ness.
A schedule of non-audit work which the auditors may, and may Established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring major not, perform has been agreed by the capital expenditure, major projects and the development of new businCommittee to safeguard the indepess which includes short and long-term budgets, risk evaluation, detailed endence and objectivity of the auditappraisal and review procedures, defined authority levels and post ors.
It seeks to balance the mainteninvestment performance reviews.
ance of objectivity and value for money.
requirements of the 2003 Code relatand can only provide reasonable, Whistleblowing policy ing to internal control as set out in the and not absolute, assurance against The Company has a whistleblowing September 1999 Internal Control material misstatement or loss.
policy, copies of which are made Guidance for Directors on the available to employees via the Combined Code produced by the The Audit committee and the auditors Companys intranet, to enable and Institute of Chartered Accountants in The members of the Audit committee encourage all employees, regardless England and Wales.
Each year the are the non-executive directors, all of of seniority, to bring matters which Board reviews all controls, including whom are independent.
Dr Hopkins is cause them concern to the attention financial, operational and compliance the current Chairman of the Commof the Board.
controls and risk management procittee.
The Committee met three times edures.
The internal control system is in 2004 and all members attended designed to manage, rather than to each meeting with the exception of eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Sir Mark Wrightson who proffered his the Companys business objectives apologies for the October meeting of 26 For more information on British Vita visit www.
