Corporate governance report The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys The responsibilities, which the Board has delegated, are shareholders for the management and control of the given to committees that operate within specified terms Companys activities and is committed to high standards of reference and authority limits, which are reviewed of corporate governance.
This report and the directors annually or in response to a change in circumstances.
remuneration report set out on pages 25 to 28 describe An Executive Directors Committee, comprising the six how the Company complies with the provisions of the executives, meets on a weekly basis and deals with all major July 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code decisions of the Group not requiring full Board approval on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
or authorisation by other Board committees.
The Executive Directors Committee is quorate with four executive Statement of compliance directors in attendance: if decisions are not unanimous The Company has complied throughout the period ended the matter is referred to the Board for approval.
Notes and 30 December 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 action points from the Executive Directors Committee of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting meetings are circulated to the Board.
The Audit Committee Council in July 2003. and Remuneration Committee, consist solely of nonexecutive directors and meet at least twice a year.
Application of the principles The Board of Directors The Board schedules quarterly meetings each year, as a Details of the directors are set out on pages 22 and 23. minimum, and arranges further meetings as the business The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors requires.
For each quarterly Board meeting, each member which comprises the Chairman, six executive and four receives up-to-date financial and commercial information non-executive directors, which provides an appropriate in respect of the three divisions prior to each meeting, balance of power and authority within the Company.
All in particular, management accounts budgets and forecasts, the Companys non-executive directors act independently details of acquisitions and disposals and relevant appraisals of management.
The terms and conditions of appointment prior Board approval being required for large transactions of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the and cash flow forecasts and details of funding availability.
All members of the Board are subject to the re-election P Stobart was nominated as the senior independent director provisions in the Articles which require them to offer as required by the Combined Code for the period ended themselves for re-election at least once every three years 30 December 2004, following the retirement of P Duffy and at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after in 2004. appointment, if appointed after the last AGM.
Details of those directors offering themselves for re-appointment are There is a clear division of responsibility between the set out in the directors report on page 29.
In the Companys view, the breadth of experience and knowledge of the Chairman and A performance evaluation of the Board and the Committees the non-executive directors detachment from the day-towas conducted for the period ended 30 December 2004. day issues within the Company provide a sufficiently strong The Chairmans performance was evaluated by the senior and experienced balance with the executive members of the non-executive director and the Chairman evaluated the Board.
The breadth of experience attributed to the nonperformance of the remaining directors.
Induction training executive directors, allied to the management information is given to all new directors appointed in the Company provided by the Company, enables them to assess and advise and consists of an introduction to the Board, onsite visits the full Board on the major risks faced by the Company.
to properties managed by the Group, introduction to the In accordance with the Combined Code the Company divisional teams, an induction pack and access to considers all its non-executive directors are independent.
The ongoing training requirements of the directors are reviewed on a regular basis and The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its undertaken individually, as necessary.
The Company is decision and a schedule of matters delegated to committees, finalising a formal ongoing training programme, although both of which are reviewed at least annually.
The Board it is recognised that all members of the Board experience reserves approval for all significant or strategic decisions continuous professional development from working including major acquisitions, disposals and financing together.
This is achieved by virtue of the dynamic and transactions.
The directors are entitled to take independent diverse mix of the Board members, their sharing of professional advice as and when necessary.
knowledge and experiences gained from a range of commercial backgrounds, and the complement of their personal attributes to the Board.
32 Capital & Regional Nomination Committee There were five Remuneration Committee meetings during The committee comprises T Chandos Chairman, P Stobart the period.
The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and recommend to the Board suitable candidates Remuneration Committee meetings Attendance for both executive and non-executive appointments to P Stobart 5 the Board: the Committee does not have the authority D Cherry 5 to appoint and agree terms and conditions with the HMautner 5 candidates.
On an annual basis the Nomination Committee also considers succession planning for the Board following the yearly performance evaluation process.
The Board is There were three Nomination Committee meetings during given an opportunity to meet the individual concerned the period.
prior to any formal decision.
During the period, a nonexecutive director, A Coppin, was appointed to the Board Nomination Committee meetings Attendance following a consultation process involving external T Chandos 3 consultants, Spencer Stuart.
The terms of reference of the M Barber 3 Nomination Committee are available for inspection at the P Duffy retired 11 June 2004 0 P Stobart 3 Companys registered office.
Board and committee meetings The number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Directors remuneration Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and individual attendance by directors, is set out below: The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within existing terms of reference, on There were 13 full Board meetings during the period.
remuneration policy and determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each executive director.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Board meetings Attendance Committee are available for inspection at the Companys T Chandos 13 registered office.
M Barber 13 D Cherry 12 X Pullen 12 A proportion of all executive directors remuneration W Sunnucks 12 consists of cash bonuses linked to corporate and individual H Mautner 11 performance achievements, the levels of which are K Ford 10 determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All the PY Gerbeau 10 executive directors are eligible to participate in the Long P Stobart 8 A Lewis-Pratt 7 Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Capital Appreciation Plan P Duffy retired 11 June 2004 5 CAP which were both established on 18 December A Coppin appointed 24 September 2004 1 2002 following shareholder consultation and approval.
The fees of the non-executive directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of There were five Audit Committee meetings during the remuneration policy and details of each directors period.
A Coppin was appointed to the Audit Committee remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration after the period end.
During the period the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee meetings Attendance commissioned Towers Perrin, external remuneration D Cherry 5 consultants, to review and advise on the current executive P Stobart 5 incentive schemes operated by the Company.
Towers Perrin P Duffy retired 11 June 2004 1 had no other connection with the Company during the period.
Capital & Regional 33 Corporate governance report Shareholder relations The risks for each of the divisions in the Group The Mall, The Company has always encouraged regular dialogue with Junction, Xscape X-Leisure and Corporate are classified its institutional shareholders and private investors at the into financial, administrative and compliance risks, property AGM, and through corporate functions and property visits.
The key features of the In addition, following the announcement of preliminary Companys system of internal control are as follows: and interim results, and throughout the year, as requested, the Company holds update meetings with institutional l Control documents for each area of risk which identify shareholders.
All the directors are accessible to all the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, shareholders, and queries received verbally or in writing their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken are immediately addressed.
The directors are introduced to manage those risks to the desired level.
to shareholders at the AGM each year and the non-executive l Clearly defined organisational responsibilities and directors and committee chairmen are clearly identified.
authority limits throughout the Group.
The day-to-day involvement of the executive directors in the running Announcements are made to the London Stock Exchange of the business ensures that these responsibilities and and the business media concerning business developments limits are adhered to.
to provide wider dissemination of information.
Registered l Financial reporting to the Board including regular shareholders are sent copies of both the annual report and reports from the Fund Manager of The Mall and The accounts and the interim report.
Junction Funds and for the Group as a whole, including the preparation of budgets and forecasts, Accountability and audit cash management, variance analysis, property, taxation Financial reporting and treasury reports and a report on financing.
The Companys annual report and accounts includes l An Audit Committee which meets with the external detailed reviews of the activities of each division, together auditors and deals with any significant internal control with a detailed review of their financial results and matter.
In the period under review the Committee met financing position.
In this way, and as required by the with the external auditors on five occasions and received Combined Code, the Board seeks to present a balanced and a paper on the internal controls of the Company.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business Internal control and to deal with areas of improvement which come to The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system managements and Boards attention.
of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is Due to the size of the Group it does not have an internal designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure audit function and the Company believes that a need for to achieve business objectives.
There are inherent limitations such a function does not currently exist.
This has been in any control system and, accordingly, even the most reviewed in 2004 in light of the recommendations of the effective system can provide only reasonable, and not Combined Code, and it is still considered that the size of absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Group does not currently warrant an internal audit function.
This will remain under periodic review in 2005.
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, an ongoing process has been Audit Committee established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive faced by the Company.
This process has been in place from directors, P Stobart Chairman, A Coppin and D Cherry, the start of the 2004 financial year, to the date of approval and the terms of reference of the Audit Committee of these financial statements.
Each year the Board conducts are available for inspection at the Companys registered a review of the effectiveness of the current system of office.
The role of the Audit Committee is to maintain internal control and updates the documentation of controls a relationship with the Groups external auditors and to in place if needed.
review, in depth, the Companys financial statements, internal financial control and risk management systems and circulars to shareholders in order to monitor financial integrity within the Group.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the cost-effectiveness and the 34 Capital & Regional
