Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance 57 The Board remains committed to ensuring that an appropriate Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings standard of corporate governance is maintained throughout the No.
of scheduled Board meetings Board meetings Group.
The Board continued to apply both the Principles of Good Director eligible to attend attended Governance and the Code of Best Practice contained in the C N Wright 5 5 Combined Code of the Financial Services Authority the Code, R N L Huntingford 5 5 which applies to the year under review.
N R A Butterfield 5 5 As reported last year, the Board has fully considered the Higgs G Howard-Spink 5 4 Review of the role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors, Mrs H Keays appointed on 1st June 2004 11 the Smith Report on audit committees and the New Combined P A Lassman 5 5 Code published in July 2003 which will apply in respect of C J C Levison 5 5 accounting periods beginning on or after 1st November 2003.
Sir George Martin 5 5 The Board believes that it complies with the majority of the D B Murrell 5 5 provisions of the New Combined Code, with the principal exception P S Riley 5 5 of the number of Independent Non-Executive Directors which are on the Board.
During the year, the Board has conducted a review Remuneration Committee of its corporate governance procedures and policies and, where The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee are to necessary, has strengthened them.
determine the Companys policy on the remuneration of senior executives and the specific remuneration packages of the This statement explains how the Company has applied the Executive Directors.
principles set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board remains committed to applying the recommendations contained in the Details of the membership of the Committee during the year Code and the New Combined Code and endorses the general under review can be found on page 24.
The Committee meets principles contained therein.
regularly with the Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive to review and agree the remuneration of the Executive Directors Except where described below, the Company has complied and to approve remuneration policies overall for the Group.
throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Full details of the Committee are set out in the Report of the Board of Directors Board on Remuneration on pages 60 to 70.
The Board is made up of five Executive Directors, including the Executive Chairman, together with five Non-Executive Directors, Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings three of whom are deemed to be independent.
of Remuneration regularly five times a year to review the Groups financial and Committee meetings Committee meetings Director eligible to attend attended operational performance.
The meeting follows a formal agenda which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the G Howard-Spink 4 4 Board.
The Board also meets as and when necessary to discuss Mrs H Keays appointed on 1st June 2004 00 and approve specific issues and all Directors receive notice of C J C Levison resigned on 1st October 2003 11 such meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the D B Murrell 4 4 issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management Audit Committee accounts and a status report containing other financial and The members of the Committee were Charles Levison operational information about the Group, including an assessment Chairman resigned from the Committee on 1st October 2003, of the business risks and opportunities.
Geoff Howard-Spink, David Murrell appointed Chairman on 1st October 2003 and Helen Keays appointed on 27th July 2004, The Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive positions are all of whom were considered independent at the times that they held by Chris Wright and Richard Huntingford respectively and were members of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least Charles Levison Non-Executive Deputy Chairman was the Senior three times per annum to review the plan and scope of the external Independent Non-Executive Director from 1st September 2003 audit work, the interim and full results and more frequently if until 1st October 2003 when the Board concluded that he could required.
Meetings are usually attended by the external auditors.
no longer be deemed an Independent Non-Executive Director During the year under review, the Committee met four times.
following the publication of the New Combined Code.
David Murrell was nominated Senior Independent Director with effect Audit Committee Report from 1st October 2003.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee recommended and the Board adopted new Terms of Reference to bring them Directors have access to the advice and services of an in line with the requirements of the New Combined Code which experienced Company Secretary and may take independent are published on the Companys website, www.
com professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year under review.
AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 58 Corporate governance The principal duties of the Committee are to review, and challenge and contacts to identify a suitable shortlist of candidates without where necessary, the actions and judgements of management in appointing an external recruitment consultant.
The Committee relation to the Companys financial statements, review the then identified a shortlist of potential candidates who met with effectiveness of the Companys procedures in respect of internal the Committee Chairman and Chief Executive and or Chairman.
control and risk management, make recommendations to the Following these meetings, the Committee met to consider each Board concerning the appointment of the Groups external auditors candidate and make a formal recommendation to the Board.
This and to monitor the external auditors independence.
The process was used in respect of the appointment of Helen Keays Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board.
as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
During the year under review, the Committee has overseen a The task of ensuring that a formal and rigorous evaluation of the tendering process in respect of the appointment of external Board is carried out annually has been delegated to the Committee auditors culminating in the re-appointment of KPMG Audit PLC.
and in this regard the Committee has agreed a process for annual evaluation of the Directors and the appointment of an outside The Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of consultant to oversee the evaluation of the Board as a whole.
a policy in respect of non-audit work being undertaken by the auditors which was adopted by the Board on 27th July 2004.
Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings Details of the fees paid to the external auditors are shown on No.
of Nomination Committee meetings Committee meetings page 39.
Director eligible to attend attended Attendance at Audit Committee meetings C N Wright 5 5 No.
of Audit G Howard-Spink 5 4 Committee meetings Committee meetings Mrs H Keays appointed on 27th July 2004 11 Director eligible to attend attended C J C Levison 5 5 G Howard-Spink 4 4 D B Murrell 5 5 Mrs H Keays appointed on 27th July 2004 00 C J C Levison resigned on 1st October 2003 00 Strategy and Investment Committee D B Murrell 4 4 The Strategy and Investment Committee sets the strategy for the Groups businesses and approves specific investment and The Nomination Committee divestment opportunities.
The members of the Strategy and During the year under review, the members of the Nomination Investment Committee during the year under review were: Chris Committee were Charles Levison Chairman resigned as Wright, Richard Huntingford, Nigel Butterfield, Charles Levison, Chairman on 27th July 2004, Chris Wright appointed Chairman Geoff Howard-Spink, Helen Keays appointed on 27th July 2004, on 27th July 2004, Geoff Howard-Spink, David Murrell and Helen Sir George Martin and David Murrell.
Attendance at Strategy and Investment Committee meetings The Nomination Committee Report No.
of Strategy and The principal duties of the Nomination Committee are to consider Investment Committee Investment Committee appointments to the Board and make recommendations in this Director meetings eligible to attend meetings attended respect to the Board, review the structure, size and composition C N Wright 2 2 of the Board, consider succession planning, ensure that a formal R N L Huntingford 2 2 and rigorous evaluation of the Board and its Committees and N R A Butterfield 2 2 individual Directors is undertaken at least once a year and to G Howard-Spink 2 2 make recommendations to the Board in respect of membership Mrs H Keays appointed on 27th July 2004 00 of the Committees.
During the year under review, the Committee C J C Levison 2 2 met five times.
During the year under review, the Committee Sir George Martin 2 2 recommended and the Board adopted updated Terms of Reference D B Murrell 2 2 for the Committee which are published on the Companys website, www.
com Re-election Following the adoption of new Articles of Association at the As reported last year, the Board had identified the need to appoint Companys Annual General Meeting on 3rd February 2004, all an additional Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board Directors are required to seek re-election at least every three years together with the Committee evaluated the current balance of in accordance with both the Code and the New Combined Code.
skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and from this Charles Levison and Sir George Martin are required to seek identified the skills, knowledge and experience required from an re-election annually in accordance with the New Combined Code.
additional Independent Non-Executive Director to complement and enhance those already existing on the Board.
The Committee then Investor relations oversaw the search for suitable candidates.
The Committee fully As previously stated, the Directors value contact with the considered whether or not it was necessary to appoint an external Companys institutional and private investors.
Harriet Finney, recruitment consultant to assist in the search and concluded that as Director of Corporate Communications, ensures that the the Independent Non-Executive Directors had sufficient knowledge AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance 59 Company maintains its relationship with both private and identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks institutional investors.
Members of the Board meet regularly with faced by the Group, which have been operating throughout the institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Directors also welcome year under review and up to and including the date of this report.
the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys The key procedures in place to review the effectiveness of the Annual General Meeting.
system of internal control include the following: Non-Compliance with the Code An organisational structure with clearly defined areas Code provision D. 3.1 provided that audit committees should of responsibility and delegation of authority: consist of at least three Non-Executive Directors.
For part of the year under review, from 1st October 2003 until 27th July 2004, Regular reports to the Directors on the effectiveness the Audit Committee comprised only two Non-Executive Directors.
of the Groups system of internal controls: New Combined Code The operation of risk management processes in which each As previously reported, the Board has considered the New business produces a database of key risks facing its objectives, Combined Code and, where it did not already meet the provisions the likelihood of each risk occurring, its impact on finances and of this, has taken steps to ensure that it will do so or fully explain image if it were to occur and the procedures in place to manage the reasons for non-compliance in the future.
The principal area these risks to the desired level.
This information is filtered to of non-compliance is in respect of provision A.
3.2 which provides produce a register of the key risks facing the Group and an that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of their controls Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board consists of five is made.
These risks and the management thereof are reported Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and five Nonto and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Directors on Executive Directors of which three can be deemed as independent.
a regular basis: The Board has carefully considered the current balance of the High level controls exercised by the divisional management Board and concluded that, following the appointment of Helen to give assurance that the detailed financial controls are Keays, the Boards structure is appropriate for the size of the operating satisfactorily.
The principal high level control is the Group and has a sufficiently strong element of independence.
review of monthly management accounts by the subsidiary Charles Levison who can no longer be deemed as independent managing directors and divisional chief executives and under the provisions of the New Combined Code is, in the opinion divisional finance directors: of the Board, still very much independent of mind.
The Board has concluded that it has the correct balance of skills and Monitoring processes which include detailed written monthly independence to operate successfully.
status reports, including an assessment of business risks, prepared by each divisional chief executive together with a Statement of internal controls programme of regular divisional and senior management The Group, as required by the UK Listing Authority, now complies meetings, a programme of quarterly formal forecast meetings, with the provisions of the Code, having established the procedures the comparison of monthly results against budget and necessary to implement the guidance: Internal Control: Guidance re-forecasts, the preparation of a rolling forecast on a monthly for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report basis and the supervisory roles of the Group Chief Executive published in September 1999 and by reporting in accordance and the Group Finance Director: with that guidance.
The close day-to-day involvement of the divisional chief The Directors are responsible for maintaining and reviewing executives in all the businesses for which they are responsible: the effectiveness of the system of internal control that provides and reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors and irregularities are prevented or In the case of companies acquired during the year, the internal detected with a minimum of delay.
The system of internal control controls in place in these companies are reviewed against the is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks to business Groups benchmarks of effective risk management and are objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only integrated into the Groups system of internal control.
In the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material case of associates and joint ventures, the Directors are provided loss or misstatement of the financial statements.
The system of with sufficient evidence during the year to establish the internal control is properly monitored by the risk management effectiveness of the system of internal controls operating procedures in place and whilst keeping the position under review, in these companies.
the Directors do not believe that there is a requirement to Going concern introduce an internal audit function at the current time.
The Corporate Governance statement on going concern can The Directors review the existing risk management processes in be found in the Finance Directors review on page 18. place within the various operating businesses and have processes in place in compliance with provision D. 2.1 of the Code to document and report on significant areas of business risks and their controls.
Ongoing processes exist for the effective AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9
