GOVERNANCE Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, the Company has complied with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code which forms part of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
In July 2003, following the publication of the Higgs and Smith reports, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code the Revised Code.
Although the Revised Code is not applicable for the year under review, the Company has made significant progress in formalising and revising existing policies, documentation and procedures in response to it.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises three executive directors and, currently, six non-executive directors, one of whom is due to retire at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the Groups management and control systems, with the aim of optimising the long-term growth of the Group.
The Board meets at least seven times a year, objectively setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the executive directors, ensuring adequate funding, examining major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
At least once a year it reviews the nature and magnitude of matters reserved for its decision.
After each Board meeting the non-executives meet without the executive directors, and at least twice a year the non-executives meet without the Chairman.
All directors were present at all full meetings of the Board held during the year with the exception of one meeting which David Godwin was unable to attend.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on page 30.
Richard Peskin who was Managing Director until March 2000, is non-executive Chairman of the Board, Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and David Godwin is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Board is of the opinion that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience and that the nonexecutive directors, who, excluding the Chairman, represent over half the Board, are independent.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and receive training as they see fit.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
The Board and its Committees have continuously monitored and evaluated their own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
In March 2004, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance facilitated by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The Institutes overall opinion was that a good corporate governance structure existed within the Board which, nonetheless, has already begun to implement suggestions arising from the evaluation.
On appointment, new non-executive directors are provided with a detailed induction programme on the Companys operations, including social, ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises David Godwin Chairman, Anthony Graham and Richard Peskin, all of whom were present on each of the seven occasions on which the Committee met during the year.
It undertakes an annual review of succession planning for senior executives and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
In making recommendations to the Board, it specifically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed non-executive and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Chairman of the Company is also required before a nonexecutive director may accept any additional commitments which could affect the time they are able to devote to the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 GOVERNANCE Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three years.
Under the Articles of Association at least a third of the Board, not including directors appointed during the year, must retire from the Board.
Anthony Graham will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
As Mr Graham will have been on the Board for more than six years, it his intention, if re-elected, to retire in 2005 when a suitable replacement has been appointed.
Following a selection process involving external recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds, Charles Irby was appointed a nonexecutive director on 1 April 2003.
Mr Irby, who was previously a member of the Takeover Panel, and head of corporate finance at ING Barings from 1992 to 1999, is currently Chairman of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, and a non-executive director of North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc and QBE Insurance Group Limited.
The Nomination Committee believes that the Board will benefit greatly from the appointment of Mr Irby as a non-executive director.
On the retirement of Mr Godwin at the Annual General Meeting this year, Miss ODonovan will take on the role of Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Irby will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and will replace Mr Godwin as a member of the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, currently Kathleen ODonovan Chairman, David Godwin and Anthony Graham, met four times in the year, with all members present on each occasion.
Miss ODonovan is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of both the Bank of England and EMI plc, and a member of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended by certain senior executives, by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the annual and half year results, statements and accompanying reports, the review of the Companys internal control and risk management systems, and the Companys whistleblowing policy.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
During the year, the Company appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as its auditors following a tender process.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and associated services, including those related to borrowings, the Bonus Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan, and shareholder and other circulars, which, in their position as auditors, they are best placed to undertake.
Services provided by Ernst & Young LLP until their resignation as auditors of the Group, were the Interim Review, and tax services awarded on the basis of efficiencies achieved by performing the audit: all other requirements for specialist property tax consulting are put out to tender.
The Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function but, given the size, internal controls and structure of the Group, continues to believe that it would not be appropriate.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, currently David Godwin Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Kathleen ODonovan, met six times during the year, and all members were present on each occasion, except for one meeting when David Godwin was unable to attend.
The Committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the executive directors, and the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also considers and establishes Company policy on remuneration, with access to professional advice outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 43.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers.
The executive directors are the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties but Richard Peskin and David Godwin, as Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, are available as a contact for shareholders.
Independent feedback on presentations by the executive directors to all major shareholders is provided to the non-executive directors on a regular basis, and David Godwin as Senior Independent Director also meets with major shareholders, where appropriate, to obtain their views.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 37
