30 COBHAM PLC Corporate Governance This part of the annual report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 34 to 40, describes how the company has both applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Code and complied with the provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Board comprises a non-executive chairman Gordon Page, a chief executive Allan Cook, four other executive directors and four other non-executive directors of whom Mike Smith is recognised as the senior independent director.
Mike Smith, who has been a non-executive director since 1996 and is coming to the end of his third three year term, will retire at the forthcoming AGM and will not seek re-election.
His replacement will be announced in due course.
All non-executive directors, with the exception of the chairman, are considered to be independent.
Biographies of the directors, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, are set out on page 27 of the annual report and in relation to those directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM, in the accompanying shareholder circular.
The wide ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors enable them to debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set out in the following table: BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION Number held 9 3 5 2 Number attended G F Page 9 2 1 A E Cook 9 1 W G Tucker 9 2 G C Cooper 8 A J Hannam 9 A J Stevens 9 J D M Smith 9 3 5 2 J W Edington 9 3 4 2 3 P Hooley 8342 4 M Beresford 6242 All directors attended the AGM in June 2004.
In the few instances where a director was unable to attend a Board or committee meeting, his comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting were passed in advance to the relevant chairman.
1 Allan Cook did not attend a meeting of the nomination committee which resulted in a recommendation to re-elect him.
2 Geoff Cooper, by prior agreement, represented the company at an important event and was, as a result, unable to attend one Board meeting.
3 Peter Hooley did not attend one Board meeting as the date clashed with a Smith & Nephew plc board meeting.
4 Marcus Beresford joined the Board on 1 March 2004.
He was unable to attend one Board meeting as a result of commitments which he had made prior to joining the Board.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms of three years which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals performance continues to be effective.
All non-executives have confirmed they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and copies of their appointment letters are available on request to the company secretary.
Under the companys articles of association, directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Under the articles at each AGM one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation must retire and any director must retire if he was not elected or re-elected at either of the previous two AGMs.
The nomination committee report on page 31 explains the process for selection of directors and succession planning.
The chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings and leading the Board.
The chief executives responsibilities include operational performance and the achievement of strategic aims.
The Boards policy is that the roles of chairman and chief executive should be performed by different people.
The division of responsibilities between the chairmans role and that of the chief executive is documented and clearly understood and no conicts arise, in the directors view, from the fact that the chairman held, until 2001, the position of chief executive.
The senior independent directors responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of communication between the chairman and the non-executive directors and another point of contact for shareholders if they have reasons for concern which communication through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or group financial director has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
Directors and ofcers of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
All directors can take independent legal advice at the companys expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 31 THE BOARD AND ITS PROCEEDINGS Scheduled meetings of the Board take place eight times a year and otherwise as required.
There is regular contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
Whilst meetings take place primarily at Wimborne they are also held at other operational locations in the UK.
In addition, meetings take place between the non-executives in the absence of the chairman and or the executive directors.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of a strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that the necessary resources are in place, monitors management performance and supervises the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specic approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all Board appointments and removals.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within dened parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and nancing arrangements.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to conduct of its business, including the timely provision of information, and the company secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
Information relating to the nomination and audit committees appears below and the activities of the remuneration committee are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 40.
John Pope, company secretary, acts as secretary to all Board committees.
The appropriate committee chairman provides an oral report on the work undertaken by his committee at the following Board meeting and committee meeting minutes are circulated to all Board members.
The executive committee meets on eight occasions during the year and develops the Groups strategy for Board consideration and approval, makes recommendations as to acquisitions and disposals, reviews operational activities and manages the significant risks faced by the Group.
Membership of the committee comprises all the executive directors and the chief executive is the committees chairman.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Gordon Page, chairman of the company, is the chairman of this committee.
The other members of the committee are Mike Smith, Jeff Edington, Allan Cook, Peter Hooley and Marcus Beresford appointed 1 March 2004.
The majority of the members of the committee are independent.
Details of their qualications and experience are set out on page 27.
During the year the committee met formally on two occasions.
The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the companys website or on application to the company secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, to consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives and to identify and nominate for Board approval candidates to ll Board vacancies.
The committee dealt with all of these matters during the year and, in addition, made recommendations regarding the re-election of certain directors at the 2004 AGM, directors time commitments and was engaged in the recruitment of new independent non-executive directors with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
Marcus Beresford was appointed a director during the year after a referral by external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with committee members and, subsequently, the other members of the Board.
DIRECTORS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT On appointment, directors undertake a structured induction programme where they receive information about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the companys corporate governance practices and procedures and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as directors of a listed public limited company.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
Training for directors is available as required through attendance at externally provided courses or in-house seminars.
In addition, directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and by means of reports from the company secretary.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year, performance evaluations of the Board, the major Board committees and individual directors were carried out with the assistance of Edis-Bates Associates.
The evaluation process involved interviews with all directors and the company secretary, the completion of questionnaires and the preparation of a Board performance evaluation report which focused on the Boards role, people issues affecting the Board, processes and the Board committees.
The report was considered by the Board and specic recommendations were agreed and are being implemented.
32 COBHAM PLC Corporate Governance continued FINANCIAL REPORTING In the directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2004, together with the Interim and other reports made during 2004, present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors Report on going concern is included in the Financial Review on page 24.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been developed and rened over time to meet its needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls are contained in the Corporate Framework, which was revised and reissued during the year, and the Group Finance Manual.
They include a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board and monitored monthly, the regular revision of forecasts for the year, a strategic planning process involving the preparation of a five year plan and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control and is considered to be key to the Groups success.
Divisional managing directors are required to ensure that appropriate processes exist to identify and manage risks and, as part of the five year planning exercise, to carry out formal risk assessments regularly.
The executive committee undertakes a top-level review of significant risks and reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
In addition, the audit committee monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and compliance with Group standards through a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries, supplemented by regular risk assurance reviews and visits.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fullment of the Groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment and the companys assets.
It is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements, is regularly reviewed and accords with the guidance for directors on internal control issued by the Turnbull committee.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive and the audit committee in relation to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in respect of 2004.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an independent director and the Board is satisfied, since he is also a finance director of a FTSE 100 company and a chartered accountant, that he has relevant and recent financial experience as required by the Code.
The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent directors, are Mike Smith, Jeff Edington and Marcus Beresford appointed 1 March 2004.
During the year the committee met on three occasions.
The committees main duties are to monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating to its financial performance, to consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors and to monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the company chairman, the group financial director, senior employees with responsibilities in relation to finance and internal control, and the external auditors.
In addition, the committee regularly holds sessions with the external auditors in the absence of executive management.
Attendance of non-members is at the discretion and by invitation of the committee.
At each of its meetings the committee considered reports from the external auditors and also on internal controls and risk assurance.
Management generated reports were also considered on a number of matters including the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards, taxation, banking facilities, corporate governance and whistleblowing procedures.
The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising a programme of internal financial control review visits to subsidiaries by head ofce personnel, business reviews carried out by the chief executive and group financial director and a process of self assessment of internal financial controls by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of the Groups activities.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 33 The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services involving the review of interim financial information, tax services and accounting advice, and acquisition-related due diligence can be supplied subject to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-dened limit.
The committee has also received reports from the external auditors conrming their independence and objectivity.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2004 are set out in Note 2 of Notes to the Financial Statements.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS During the year the chief executive and group financial director held regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and investors to discuss information made public by the Group and in June they, along with divisional managing directors, held an investor day, at which presentations were given on strategy, programmes and financial performance.
Presentations were made on the announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
The slides used and web casts were made accessible on-line at www.
A conference call with analysts was made following the announcement of the agreement to acquire Remec Defense and Space just before the year end.
The chairman wrote to a number of major shareholders during the year reminding them of his availability, and that of Mike Smith, the senior independent director, should there be issues which they might wish to raise.
They were also offered the opportunity to meet Marcus Beresford, the non-executive director appointed during the year.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through the distribution of analysts circulars, the receipt of regular reports from the companys brokers and updates from the chief executive and group financial director.
Correspondence with shareholders is also made available and, following the year end, a survey of shareholder opinion was commissioned.
Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, the companys website, the annual and interim reports and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear a statement as to progress made during the year, to question the Board on its stewardship of the company and to meet directors informally.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS Statements by the directors and the auditors relating to their responsibility for preparing the accounts and reporting respectively are set out on pages 41 to 43.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Independent non-executives, excluding the chairman, made up less than half of the Board.
Accordingly, the Board did not fully comply with the provisions of the Code in 2004.
The company is currently seeking additional independent non-executives with a view to achieving equality with the executive directors.
