12 Effective governance Corporate governance The terms of reference of Board Committees, ensuring that Board procedures are complied together with the schedule of matters reserved with and who advises the Board on corporate for Board approval, the procedure for directors governance and compliance matters.
The to take independent legal advice and the revised Board has resolved that directors may seek letter of appointment for non-executive independent professional advice at the directors, together with the Memorandum Groups expense in the furtherance of their The Combined Code principles of good and Articles of Association of the Company, duties as directors.
No director made use of governance and code of best practice are available on the Groups website at this facility during the year.
Land Securities complied with the Combined www.
com or copies may be Code on Corporate Governance as it applied to obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are the Company during the year, except initially split and there exists a strong non-executive with regard to the requirements to appoint a Directors element on the Board which currently consists senior independent director and to establish a The Board meets at least nine times a year.
Its of the chairman, five executive and five formally constituted Nominations Committee.
principal task is to formulate strategy and to non-executive directors.
David Rough is the These requirements were addressed in November monitor and control operating and financial senior independent director.
The Board is 2003 with the appointment of David Rough performance in pursuit of the Groups strategic actively seeking to recruit an additional as senior independent director and the objectives.
It operates in accordance with a independent non-executive director.
While the establishment of a formally constituted formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board considers that all the non-executive Nominations Committee.
As a result, with Board for decision.
directors are independent, under some effect from that date, the Company complied definitions Sir Winfried Bischoff may not be fully with the version of the Combined Code These matters include authorisation of regarded as independent.
However the applicable to the year under review.
expenditure on property developments, unanimous view of his colleagues on the refurbishments, acquisitions and disposals Board is that, by virtue of his personality, During the year under review, a comprehensive and significant transactions in excess of experience and knowledge of business, he is review of the Companys corporate governance 50m, and treasury policy.
They also include robustly independent.
procedures was carried out following the the appointment or removal of directors and publication in July 2003 of the revised the company secretary and the introduction The Board is supplied with comprehensive Combined Code which applies to reporting years of any significant changes to employee share management information on a regular and commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
timely basis, principally by means of monthly principal outcomes of this review comprised: management reports of actual and forecast updated terms of reference for the Audit and In addition, the Investment Committee performance.
In addition the Board formally Remuneration Committee appraises and, where appropriate, approves reviews strategy at least once a year, resulting new terms of reference for the Nominations funding proposals taking into account key in a five year Business Plan.
Each business unit Committee financial drivers, sensitivities, and project risk is reviewed at regular intervals against the adoption of a revised letter of appointment assessment.
All directors have access to the targets set each year in the Business Plan.
for non-executive directors company secretary who is responsible for 44 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during the financial year was as follows: Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 11 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings Peter Birch 11 5 3 4 Sir Winfried Bischoff 10 2 4 David Rough 11 5 3 4 Peter Freeman 8 3 Stuart Rose 7 8 3 3 2 4 Ian Henderson 11 3 Francis Salway 11 Andrew Macfarlane 11 Mark Collins 11 Ian Ellis 11 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend as a member.
In accordance with the Companies Acts and Evaluation of individual directors in their forward formal recommendations for the Articles of Association of the Company, all role as members of the Board will also be consideration by the Board.
In the event that directors are required to submit themselves to conducted by the chairman in 2004.
The senior the Committee deals with the appointment of shareholders for re-election to the Board at independent director will be responsible for the a successor to the chairman of the Board, the the first Annual General Meeting following evaluation of the chairman and he will meet chairman will step aside from the Committee their appointment and at regular intervals at least annually with the other non-executive to be replaced by another non-executive thereafter.
Every director is required to directors to appraise the chairmans director who will act as his alternate.
In such stand for re-election every three years.
During the year under review, circumstances the Committee will be chaired executive directors are appointed for an initial the executive directors were evaluated under by the senior independent director.
Similarly, period of three years which is extendable upon the Companys standard performance appraisal when dealing with the appointment of a mutual agreement.
system, with the performance of the Group successor to the position of chief executive, chief executive being evaluated by the the present incumbent will step aside to be Directors are provided with training as chairman.
As recommended by the Combined replaced by an alternate chosen from among required.
Their induction programme, which Code, the non-executive directors meet at the executive directors.
includes training on the responsibilities of least annually, both with and without the a director occurs prior to, or immediately presence of the chairman.
The Committee meets periodically when following, their appointment to the Board, required and external search consultants are if that appointment is the first occasion that Non-executive directors generally used, both to identify appropriate they have been appointed to the Board of a Remuneration for the chairman and noncandidates for appointment to the Board, or, if listed company.
The training needs of directors executive directors is determined by the an internal appointment is being considered, are reviewed periodically to ensure that they Board within the levels set in the Articles of to benchmark the internal candidate against are kept up to date on relevant new legislation Association.
They do not participate in any potential external candidates.
In relation to and changing commercial risks.
of the Companys share incentive, bonus or Board appointments made during the year pension schemes.
The chairman and nonunder review and subsequently, external Board appraisal executive directors are appointed for an initial search consultants were used.
A formal appraisal of the performance of the period of three years subject to renewal for Board and Board Committees was carried out, further periods and to the rotation provisions Directors remuneration for the first time, in autumn 2003.
This was an under the Articles of Association.
They do not The report of the Companys Remuneration internal process, led by the chairman.
Further have service agreements with the Company.
Committee is on pages 51 to 56. appraisals will be carried out each year.
The wide-ranging, appraisal questionnaire was Nominations committee Investor relations based on the process and questions outlined The members of the Nominations Committee Land Securities is committed to maintaining in the Higgs Review of Corporate Governance are the chairman, the senior independent the highest standards in its investor relations and the results were reviewed in detail by the director and the chief executive.
For all Board programme IRP.
This activity, which is led by Board in September 2003. appointments the Committee consults with the chief executive and finance director, who the other members of the Board and puts call on other directors as required, includes 45 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 regular presentations and meetings with key Audit Committee Auditors audiences, including institutional, both equity The Audit Committee consists of all the nonThe directors, and our external auditors, and bond investors, private shareholders and executive directors other than Peter Freeman  LLP, have safeguards selland buy-side analysts.
These are and is chaired by David Rough.
It operates in in place to maintain the independence and conducted within the constraints imposed accordance with written terms of reference.
Set out below is our to ensure the protection of price sensitive policy on the provision of services by our information which has not already been The Audit Committee has no single member external auditors: made available to all investors.
who fully meets the requirements of the Audit related services:We will normally retain revised Combined Code in respect of recent our auditors to provide audit related The effectiveness of the communication and relevant financial experience.
This is work which, by the nature of programme is monitored directly through the Board considers that the collective and the services required, the external auditors feedback to the company and indirectly individual experience of the Audit Committee are best placed to provide, either because through third party perception audits, which is more than adequate to enable them to carry they are required to do so for regulatory are commissioned from time to time.
purposes, they have a significant depth of most recent independent survey was conducted knowledge of the particular area of our in July 2003.
The survey concluded that the The Committee met five times this year.
The business or issue, or because the work has a company had conducted an extensive IRP, following items were covered: strong relationship to the audit itself.
It is both in absolute terms and in comparison possible that certain tax work, together with with the programmes of its other clients andongoing review and reports from management support for Land Securities Trilliums bid concluded that the Groups activities match to ensure that appropriate accounting systems activities and the work involved in the what the consultants regard as investor and financial controls are in operation and that acquisition of new contracts, would fall relations best practice.
the Groups financial statements comply with within this category.
statutory and other requirements: Annual general meeting General consulting work: significant general The Board welcomes the move towards a more reporting and consultation with the internal consulting work will normally be put out to constructive use of Annual General Meetings and external auditors: tender.
We will not generally invite the and regards the Annual General Meeting as the external auditor to tender for such work.
The principal opportunity to meet privatereviewing the interim and annual results and auditors may only participate in such tenders shareholders.
At its Annual General Meeting, with the Audit Committees prior approval.
the Company complies with the provisions of consideration on any matters raised by the the Combined Code relating to the disclosure internal and external auditors: and Approval procedures: senior management of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions approval is required in advance of significant and the attendance of Committee Chairmen.
monitoring the scope, cost effectiveness, non-audit work being undertaken by the The Company arranges for the Report and independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Such approvals will be Financial Statements and related papers to be external audit.
reported periodically to the Audit Committee.
posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to Soho Square, London W1, a the Annual General Meeting.
2 5,720m Landflex building which was fully-let during the year.
46 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Our ambition is to grow Landflex to 15% of the Central London portfolio 47 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Valuers reason, they continue to adopt the going c Financial monitoring: profitability, cash The Group gives the valuers and auditors concern basis in preparing the accounts.
flow and capital expenditure are closely access to each other.
These advisers have a monitored and key financial information is dialogue and exchange of information which is Internal control reported to the Board on a monthly basis: entirely independent of the Group.
The The Board is responsible for the Groups chairman of the Audit Committee attends key system of internal control and for reviewing its d Systems of control procedures and valuation meetings as do the auditors to be effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to delegated authorities: there are clearly assured of the independence of the process.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of defined guidelines and approval limits for failure to meet business objectives and can capital and operating expenditure and other In line with the Carsberg Committee report we provide only reasonable and not absolute key business transactions and decisions: have a fixed fee arrangement with our valuers, assurance against material misstatement or Knight Frank LLP.
The fees paid to Knight loss.
The Board confirms that this system is e Risk management: we have an ongoing Frank LLP for services other than valuation designed to be in accordance with the Turnbull process to identify, evaluate and manage services amounted to less than 10% of the guidance and has been in place for the year the significant risks faced by the Group.
total amount of fees paid to other advisors for under review and up to the date of approval of Further details of our risk management similar services.
the Report and Financial Accounts.
The Audit process and our principal business risks are Committee on behalf of the Board has set out in the separate section below: Financial reporting reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of The Board seeks to present a balanced and internal control and risk management f Six-monthly assessments: a compliance understandable assessment of the Groups specifically for the purposes of this statement.
questionnaire is completed twice a year and position and prospects, and details are given in signed off by senior managers, providing the chairmans Statement and the Operating The key features of our system of internal assurances that controls are both and Financial Review OFR.
In preparing the control include: embedded and effective within the OFR, the directors have taken into account the business: and: guidance issued by the DTI, the OFR Working a Strategic planning: each business unit Party and the Accounting Standards Board.
must produce and agree a business plan g An internal audit function: responsible for Recognising that these represent drafts each year, against which the performance of reviewing the business processes and only at this stage, we await publication of the business is regularly monitored.
Balanced controls including following up the the final documentation before formally scorecards are prepared that set out targets implementation of management actions.
evaluating and reporting upon compliance for a wide variety of key performance The head of internal audit and risk with the relevant guidance.
indicators, including risk management: management has direct access to the chairman of the Audit Commitee.
The After making enquiries, the directors have a b Investment appraisal: capital projects, internal audit function operates a riskreasonable expectation that the Company has major contracts and business and property based approach and provides a summary adequate resources to continue in operational acquisitions are reviewed in detail and on the operation of the system of risk existence for the foreseeable future.
For this approved by the Investment Committee management and internal control to and or the Board: support the Boards annual statement.
48 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 1 Goals & Objectives Risk management process 1 Business goals and objectives set the context 4 Develop action plans to manage the risks 2 for our risk management process Identify 5 Reassess the risks after mitigating actions 2 Identify the risks have been taken 5 6 3 3 Assess and quantify the risks identified 6 Report on risks, extent of mitigation and Reassess Report Assess status of action plans 4 Action The Audit Committee on behalf of the in more detail how we address the key social, Portfolio management Board reviews the scope of work, authority environmental and ethical risks inherent in We have concentrated our investment and resources of the internal audit function our business.
portfolio in areas of the market and types of on an annual basis.
property that we believe will offer the prospect Major risk factors of superior rental growth over the medium For the purposes of applying the Turnbull The Group undertakes comprehensive risk term as we consider this offers the best guidance we have not treated material joint assessments and identifies the principal risks prospects for value creation.
We are exposed ventures and partnerships as part of the Land that affect it and its activities.
Those risks that to the risk of underperformance if we misjudge Securities Group.
We do not have management are considered by senior management to have the dynamics of the markets, or if individual control of any of these joint ventures or the most significant potential impact on the assets do not achieve their anticipated returns partnerships, but do ensure that appropriate Group are set out below.
In line with the OFR for example due to tenant insolvency.
We governance procedures are in place as part of guidance issued by the Accounting Standards formally review the performance of each the operating arrangements.
Board, we include, for each risk, an indication property at least annually.
Key performance of the areas of potential impact and our measures such as voids, expiry profiles, Risk management approach to managing them.
progress on rent reviews and tenant defaults Doing business inherently involves taking risks are reported on monthly and actively and by taking measured risks, we seek to Principal market risks and external factors managed to mitigate risks.
achieve long-term sustainable returns for our We invest in commercial property to generate shareholders.
During the current year, we have returns for shareholders, with rents Development continued to develop our risk management contributing to profits and increases in capital Development offers the prospect of higher process, including our analysis of the potential values building the Groups net asset value.
It also impact of the major risks discussed below.
We offers the ability to create new assets if have also enhanced the related mitigating The commercial property markets are typically purchasing is difficult because prices are high.
Rental levels are determined by the However, the development process can be long supply of suitable space in a market and and complex because it requires us to obtain Risk management process occupiers demand.
Markets tend to be planning permission, build to budget and Our risk management process is an important location specific.
The value of a commercial schedule and let the buildings.
Failure to part of our system of internal control and has property depends upon the characteristics of manage any of these elements, and in linkages with each of the other elements of the lease, the credit worthiness of the tenant, particular to let the building, exposes us to the the system, particularly the strategic planning, the prospects for rental growth and investors risk of loss or underperformance.
We monitor investment appraisal and financial target returns.
The latter are informed by their development progress against budget and monitoring processes.
perception of the attractiveness of real estate programme and report regularly on letting compared with other types of investment and progress.
We also set internal financial limits as The diagram above shows the six steps in our interest rates.
to the amount of development, in particular risk management process, which covers a speculative development, that we will undertake.
broad spectrum of business risks.
The Groups 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out 49 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Property outsourcing Commercial property is subject to cyclical Disaster planning An outsourcing contract will typically require fluctuations in value and we continuously Without sufficient recovery planning, there the Group to provide accommodation and monitor current and future market sentiment is a risk that the business may fail to recover certain associated services to an occupier in against industry benchmarks such as IPD and from a disaster and potentially suffer long return for an indexed unitary charge.
update our forecast house view accordingly.
While we believe that our Outsourcing clients may transfer significant This house view is a key element of our exposure in this area is lower than that faced elements of the risk in their property portfolios forecasting and capital allocation decisionby many other major companies, we have in to the Group and it is our ability to manage making processes.
place disaster recovery plans that are updated these risks that creates profit for us.
Securities is exposed to loss if the unitary Regulation charge set at the outset of the contract either As set out in the chairmans statement, there IT integrity and performance does not reflect the property and operational remains uncertainty as to the impact of both A major failure in our IT systems could result risks involved, or if the Group does not deliver REITS and the Governments consultation on in financial and reputational loss.
To mitigate the contracted services to the required lease code reforms.
against this risk, IT back-up plans are a key standard.
We have developed rigorous element of our disaster recovery plans.
financial models and systems to measure our The Group is exposed to risks from increases performance against contract requirements, in tax rates and changes to VAT, stamp duty, Health, safety and environment HSE all of which, together with Land Securities and the basis of taxation of profits and capital Failure to manage these risks across the Group Trilliums financial performance, are reviewed gains.
The Group is also exposed to changes may result in financial penalties, criminal monthly by senior management.
Further, the cost of complying with major changes in Investment performance and returns We are active participants in many industry related laws and regulations could have a There is a potential risk that management organisations, including the British Property negative impact on profitability.
Our HSE decisions about the allocation and investment Federation, through whom we seek a management systems are detailed on pages of capital and other resources may not deliver constructive dialogue with government 40 and 42. the appraised returns, or may fail to maximise on issues affecting us.
potential value for the Group.
Our investment Stakeholder relationships appraisal procedures and controls are designed Other principal risks and internal factors We conduct relationship management to monitor and mitigate this risk.
Human resources programmes to ensure we engage Our objective is to build and retain the best appropriately with our key stakeholder groups.
team in the property industry.
To ensure that Our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report we limit the risk to the successful achievement outlines in detail how we conduct our business of this objective, we have succession planning to minimise the variety of risks that could arise and career development programmes in place.
from poor management of these relationships.
