Corporate governance The Board are committed to discharging its responsibility to protect and enhance shareholder value and the Groups long-term financial performance by ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are practised throughout the Group.
Within this report, the Group is reviewing its compliance against the provisions of the new Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Code.
Except as stated below, the Company has been in full compliance with the principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Board The Board currently has ten members comprising the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Chief Operating officer and six Non-Executive Directors.
Each Director is required to retire at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and at the Annual General Meeting falling no later than the third anniversary of their appointment or re-appointment.
Alan Barber, Sven Boinet, Brian Collie, Bob Collier and Agns Touraine are all considered to be independent Directors.
Bob Collier held share options during the year until they were exercised on 20 May 2004.
These options were granted in November 1998 prior to the date on which the Group became a public company and were granted at that time in lieu of Non-Executive Directors cash fees, which were not implemented until 2002.
The Board considered this as appropriate non-cash remuneration for Bob Collier during the Groups formative years, consider Bob Collier as independent in character and judgement and are of the view that the holding of options has not affected his independence: Bob Collier is Vice Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice, if required, and will receive appropriate training as necessary on an ongoing basis.
The Board met for full Board meetings nine times during the year with an additional five ad-hoc meetings convened for the approval of quarterly results and acquisitions.
Prior to each meeting, an agenda and Board papers for each agenda item are circulated to Directors.
The Board retains responsibility for the strategic direction and management of the Group, including all acquisitions, strategic contracts and annual budgets.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors also met without Executive Directors present at least four times during the year.
The number of meetings attended by the Directors, together with the maximum number that they could have attended during the year, is as follows: Full Board meetings Ad-hoc Board meetings Maximum number Maximum number of possible of possible Director Attended meetings Attended meetings Alan Barber Sven Boinet 7 9 4 5 Brian Collie 9945 Bob Collier 9955 Brent Hoberman 9 9 5 5 David Howell 9955 Clive Jacobs 5724 Martha Lane Fox 5 5 23 Allan Leighton 7955 Ian McCaig 7734 Agns Touraine 9955 Martha Lane Fox has been unable to attend Board meetings since March 2004 following injuries received in an accident, but does continue to receive Board papers.
The Board has not implemented a formal and rigorous process to evaluate its own performance and the performance of individual Directors during the year.
However the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, and on occasions the Board together, have reviewed the Board structure during the year, in particular considering the need for a financial expert on the Board and in relation to the change of Chairman.
It is the Boards intention to make further progress on corporate governance issues and implement a formal evaluation process during the current financial year.
The Board Committees The Board had the following Committees during the year: The Senior Management Board consists of all the Executive Directors, the Chief Technology officer, the Group Commercial Director and the Group HR Director.
It deals with the on-going day-to-day management of the Group, as well as reviewing and making recommendations in respect of the Groups operating and strategic policy and investment decisions to ensure that the long term interests of shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers are considered.
The Remuneration Committee is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 15 to 21.
The Remuneration Committee has consisted entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors during the year and therefore complied with provision B.
The Audit Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent: Alan Barber was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 16 September 2004 and Bob Collier was Chairman prior to that date.
Bob Collier remains a member of the Committee and its other members are Brian Collie and Agns Touraine.
Meetings are also attended by the Company Secretary, the Chief Financial officer and the internal and external auditors.
The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, has terms of reference covering the Groups annual and quarterly reporting, and the auditors involvement in that process, focusing particularly on compliance, risk management, review of internal audit and accounting standards.
The Nomination Committee consists of Brian Collie, who chairs the Committee, Allan Leighton and Agns Touraine.
The Committee has not met during the year but all members of the Committee met Alan Barber prior to his appointment as a Director and recommended his appointment to the Board.
com plc annual report 2003 13 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2004 annual report 2004 13 13 Corporate governance continued Relationships with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority to ensure a growing dialogue with investment audiences.
During the year, shareholders are kept informed as to the progress of the Group through quarterly statements and trading updates.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors following the publication of quarterly results and at the time of significant events, such as acquisitions, during the year.
The Board recognises that not all of the Companys private shareholders have the same regular access to market information.
However, shareholders can raise questions with the Group at any time and the Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors with a business presentation and answering shareholder questions.
The Group also operates an Investor Relations website, www.
com ir on which it publishes all financial and general press releases and other information about the Group.
In addition, the Group produces both an Annual Report and a Summary Financial Statement, which it believes provides information to both institutional and private shareholders in the most effective way.
The Group makes arrangements for the report and accounts and notice of meeting to be dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting and advises shareholders attending the Meeting of the number of proxy votes in favour and against each resolution as well as the number who abstained.
Internal control For the year ended 30 September 2004, the Board reports on its review of internal control, including the effectiveness, identication, evaluation and management of all significant risks affecting the Group.
The internal control procedures have not been changed signicantly during the year, with material risks being reviewed within each of the Groups businesses and as part of the budget and monthly review process adopted by the Board.
As reported in previous years, the controls in a number of the smaller acquired businesses were not as mature or robust as required in a public company because they were typically small growing entrepreneurial businesses.
Management has continued to work on improving these controls during the year and progress has been made in a number of areas.
A review of the Groups financial systems has been delayed due to acquisitions and is still ongoing, but senior management have instigated a significant project to progress the implementation of Oracle across the Group in the next financial year: the Board believes that this, together with further significant business integration particularly in the UK, will improve the control environment across the Group.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive officer, with the Senior Management Board, has day-to-day control over the Groups operations within guidelines adopted by the Board.
Whilst the internal control system is designed to meet the risks to which the Group is exposed, any system of internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main elements of the Groups system of internal control are: formance monitoring The business has dened targets, which are agreed by the Board at the beginning of each financial year, against which performance is monitored on a monthly basis.
The Senior Management Board reviews key performance indicators on a weekly basis and ensures that quarterly reforecasts are rigorous.
In addition, the Group operates a budgeting and financial reporting system, with key gures being reviewed both locally and on a Group basis against budget.
A detailed trading report is submitted to the Board and Senior Management Board at each meeting.
The Board is keen to ensure that a formal approach to risk is embedded across all functions of the Group.
The main objectives of risk management and internal controls have previously been communicated to all employees but specic Group review of these controls has not been undertaken during the year.
The annual budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate expenditure.
For expenditure above specified levels, detailed written proposals are required for review and authorisation.
All significant investment decisions are reviewed by the Board.
Reviews of both operational and financial controls are performed throughout the Group including reviews of cash and ticketing controls as well as financial reconciliations.
Data protection and security of information is tightly controlled and guidelines set by licensing authorities are enforced.
Internal audit provides information to support the Board, the Audit Committee and senior management to assess, control and monitor business risks, to continue to improve effective and efficient systems of internal control, and to mitigate against fraud.
Internal audit is a management function directed and managed by the Group Financial Controller.
KPMG LLP provides resources to management to undertake selected internal audit work across the Groups core countries.
Internal audit reports through management to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis on progress made.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee receives reports from senior management and the internal and external auditors to obtain reasonable assurance that financial and control procedures monitored through audit and internal audit are in place and are being adhered to and reports on all these matters to the Board.
The Committee has a separate meeting with the internal and external auditors after each Audit Committee meeting.
Whilst the Group has an anonymous feedback forum available to employees, there is no formalised policy under which employees can raise concerns about improprieties in relation to financial reporting or other matters: in this respect the Group does not comply with the requirements of the Code.
The Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems considering the processes set out above and believe that, whilst there were still some of the smaller acquired businesses operating separately to the Group during the year, there is a framework in place to ensure that risks are minimised through effective controls.
The Board also believes that with the exception of formal whistleblowing procedures, the Group has been compliant with the Internal Control requirements of the Code during the year ended 30 September 2004 and up to the date of this report.
com plc annual report 2003 14 14 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2004 annual report 2004 Internal audit Operating controls Strategic business planning and per
