Corporate governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and the directors consider that throughout the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules, save that the US based executive director, David Verklin, has a rolling service contract with a contractual termination payment provision in excess of one year and, prior to his resignation, Doug Flynn had a contractual notice period of 24 months.
Details of David Verklins contractual entitlement on termination are set out on page 36 and the board believes that his contract is appropriate given the need to retain a key senior operational executive in the context of highly competitive local market conditions.
The Board believed that Doug Flynns service contract had been in line with comparable agreements within the industry when it was entered into but had committed to bring it into line with best practice.
Following his resignation Doug Flynn received no contractual compensation.
Details of the contractual notice periods applicable to the other executive directors are set out on page 36.
At the date of this report the Board comprises 9 directors, with four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Their biographies illustrate the directors range of experience, which ensures that the Company has an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board has determined that each of the non-executive directors is independent, as they are independent of the Companys executive management and free from any material business or other relationship with the Company.
Accordingly, the Board believes that there are no such relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Robert Lerwill was the nominated senior independent director up until his appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 7 February 2005.
The board is seeking to appoint an additional two nonexecutive directors over the course of 2005 and a decision will be taken at that time as to the appointment of a new senior independent director to whom shareholders may convey any concerns in the event that they do not wish to involve the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
Pending the announcement of such appointment, shareholders may convey any concerns to any of the non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly established, being set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment and has remained so since.
The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required and at each board meeting one or two presentations are arranged from different business units in order that the non-executives in particular continue their process of familiarisation with the business of the Group.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business needs require.
One meeting is devoted entirely to the development of the Companys strategy.
The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record of individual directors.
Committee meetings Board meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of meetings in year 7311 Lord Sharman 7 1 Douglas Flynn 6 1 Adrian Chedore 7 Daniel Farrar 7 1 Bernard Fournier 7 3 1 1 Jeremy Hicks 7 Robert Lerwill 7 3 1 Charles Strauss 6 1 1 David Verklin 6 Leslie Van fide Walle 7 3 1 1 The Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
In 2004, the non-executives, led by the senior non-executive director, started the process of meeting at least annually without the Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
As a result of this the senior independent director and the Chief Executive Officer met with the Chairman to discuss particular issues where it was felt that improvements could be made.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including approval of interim and annual results, the dividend policy, approval of all circulars and listing particulars, matters relating to share capital, approval of the annual budget and approval of major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board considers that the Company has in place an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three-year period all directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
29 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued During 2004 the Board introduced a formal performance evaluation appraisal of the Board as a whole and of all of the individual directors.
This was undertaken by one of the Groups specialist research companies with each director completing a detailed questionnaire which sought an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and the contribution of individual directors.
The responses were aggregated and fed back to the board.
The Chairman has provided feedback on individual assessment and overall board performance and agreed any actions necessary to assist improvements.
It is planned to build on this process and in the 2005 evaluation process the performance of the board committees will be added to the review process.
Board committees The Board sets the terms of reference for all board committees which are formally documented and regularly updated.
The main roles and responsibilities of the committees, including the authority delegated to them by the Board, as set out in the terms of reference, are displayed on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee Robert Lerwill chaired the Audit Committee until stepping down from the committee following his appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 7 February 2005.
Robert Lerwill is a chartered accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The other two, continuing members of the Committee are Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
The board is seeking to appoint two new non-executive directors with the intention that one of the appointees will be suitably qualified to join and chair the Audit Committee.
In the interim, Lord Sharman, who is a chartered accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience, is chairing the Audit Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend all meetings.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings.
The Committee chairman has, and also uses, together with the other members of the Committee, the opportunity to meet with the auditors without management present.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee meets three times a year: To review the half-year interim results and the findings of the auditors review and to discuss the scope of the current year full audit To review internal risk management and controls and to consider progress reports from the Group Risk Committee and Group Risk Manager Before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, to review the years results and audit findings In reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements the Committee focuses in particular on: Changes in accounting policies and practices Major judgemental areas Significant adjustments resulting from the audit The going concern assumption Compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code Compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements In addition the Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors appointment, monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy applied by the external auditors concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
During the year the Committee involved itself in a number of specific matters including: As reported in last years Report and Accounts, conduct of the external auditor review which culminated in the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys external auditors Review and consideration of issues arising from the Smith Committee Report Consideration of the impact of IFRS reporting The introduction of an internal audit function 30 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Strauss chairman, Robert Lerwill and Daniel Farrar.
Since being appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 7 February 2005, Robert Lerwill has stepped down from the Committee and it is intended that he will be replaced once a new non-executive director is appointed.
The Committee meets periodically as required but not less than once a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy regarding executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole and is empowered to approve awards under the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Performance Share Plan.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and other appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to him.
Similarly, the chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee but may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired by Lord Sharman.
The Committee meets as and when necessary and has responsibility for reviewing the board structure, size and composition, and for identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment as directors.
The Committee meets once a year, together with the Group Human Resources director, specifically to review the Groups ongoing succession planning.
This is key to ensuring that the Group maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience across the Group and on the board.
The Committee had a number of discussions recently to review proposals for the successor to Doug Flynn as Chief Executive Officer and also proposals for two new non-executive directors.
In its deliberations over the successor to Doug Flynn, the Committee did not use the services of an external search consultancy.
It was felt very strongly that Robert Lerwill had all the attributes necessary to fill the role, including extensive experience of the media world, both internationally and in the UK and having been a non-executive director of the Company since 2000, a good level of knowledge of the business and its management.
The Committee is using the services of a search consultancy in respect of the new non-executive director appointments.
Internal control and risk management The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Code and the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only give reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and any significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
An executive committee the Group Risk Committee has been in place since early 2003 to manage and monitor the Groups risk and control processes and procedures.
Membership of the committee comprises: Group Risk Manager Group HR Director Group Chief Financial Officer Group Company Secretary Group Legal Counsel Group Chief Information Officer Senior representatives from the various operating Group businesses The committee meets three times a year.
The role of the Group Risk Manager is to develop policies and procedures and to manage the risk self-assessment program and the internal control peer reviews, together with other activities as directed by the Group Risk Committee.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings and of the Group Risk Committee meetings to the Board and the Board also receives the minutes of the meetings of both committees.
31 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued The key procedures which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: a The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective supervision over appropriate controls.
The Groups strategic direction is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer together with the executive directors consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
b The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the executive directors and reviewed by the Board in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
The division of responsibility at Board level is achieved by the appointment of a non-executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
Management of the Groups day-to-day activities is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors and they review on a regular basis any significant risks which the business faces.
c Each operations chief executive officer is responsible for: i the conduct and performance of their business: ii ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place: iii meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and controls: and iv signing-off their accounts on a monthly basis subject to the limitations set by the annual business strategy and the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board.
d The Board receives, on a monthly basis, financial results from each business and the Group reports biannually to shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
e The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and receives reports from the Group Risk Committee, the Group Risk Manager, the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors on a regular basis.
f The internal financial control system is reviewed by Group Finance which reports to management and the Audit Committee.
Group Finance, the Group Risk Manager and the external auditors co-ordinate their work to the extent necessary for the external auditors to express their audit opinion on the Groups report and accounts.
g There is a clearly defined framework for approving all acquisitions, new and renewing leases, major capital projects and expenditure within the Group.
An acquisitions committee reviews all proposals before they are submitted either to the Chief Executive Officer for approval or to the full Board in the case of any acquisition over 15 million.
All property lease proposals have to be approved by the relevant regional business head before then being submitted to Group head office for consideration by the Chief Financial Officer.
All major capital projects and expenditure are submitted to Group head office for approval by the Chief Financial Officer either at the time of the annual budget process or at quarterly review dates.
h A detailed manual of Group Principles and Policies is held by all Group senior management.
The manual formally collates, in a single document, policies that apply throughout the Group and which address legal, financial, IT, personnel and other areas of risk.
During the year an employee version of the manual was made available, via the Companys intranet site, to other employees around the Group.
i A formal risk self-assessment programme using an online questionnaire is used twice each year.
It requires every business unit CEO to report, for each of the Groups key risks, the status of internal control and risk management within their operation.
The results, including managements planned actions, are analysed by the Group Risk Committee.
j A peer review programme takes place at higher risk locations within the Group and each review assesses the controls over the Groups key risks.
The reviews are carried out by experienced finance directors from other Group operating companies.
The reviews are structured to ensure that each of the Groups key risks are rigorously evaluated using a consistent approach and a common work program.
The results are reported to country, regional and Group management and to the Risk and the Audit Committees.
Action plans to address any areas of concern are agreed with management and implementation is monitored.
The results are reported to the Group Risk Committee.
k Arrangements are in place that allow employees, in confidence, to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
32 Corporate governance continued During 2004 the Group Risk Manager and Group Risk Committee have continued to build on the above core procedures and processes.
In particular the following matters were implemented to further strengthen the internal control infrastructure and environment: Peer reviews were conducted at 27 businesses.
The key risks that confront the Group were reviewed and revised accordingly.
The revised risks were used to adjust the focus of the internal control peer review program and the December risk self assessment survey.
In addition, each regional CEO regularly submits to the Group CEO an assessment of the current major risks facing his business and any actions taken.
Each business within the Group was targeted to produce a documented Business Continuity Plan by December 2004.
Guidance including a template was produced and the best plans were shared to encourage best practice throughout the Group.
During 2005 the focus will move to the maintenance and updating of the plans and testing the plans to verify that they work and to help train the recovery teams in each business.
A structured and detailed fraud management workshop has been developed by the Group Risk Manager and run to train finance, IT, HR and client service management in 20 countries to date.
Further workshops are planned in 2005 throughout the Group.
The Group uses the Internet in many ways.
This includes delivering client service through Isobar and Synovate, as well as deploying extranets for over 25 clients and intranets for sharing information internally.
All uses introduce risks and a best practice guide has been developed, distributed and implemented.
Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee the Board has decided that, with the continuing growth and diversity of the Groups business, an Internal Audit function should be introduced during 2005.
A more detailed report on this function will be included in the 2005 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Going concern Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders Good relations with shareholders are of prime importance to the Company.
Formal presentations are made to institutional investors and brokers analysts after the release of the Groups interim and final results.
Individual meetings are held during the year to ensure that the strategies and objectives of the Company are well understood and the larger institutional investors are offered the opportunity to meet with newly appointed non-executive directors.
The Board receives regular briefings from the Companys brokers giving views on shareholder perceptions and is considering what further steps it might take to improve its understanding of shareholder issues.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman or the Board directly including the chairmen of the Board Committees.
Shareholders may also discuss any issues on an informal basis following the conclusion of the Meeting.
Published information, including press releases, is available on the Aegis website www.
John Ross Company Secretary 8 April 2005 33
