London Merchant Securities plc 26 Corporate Governance The Combined Code The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the Principles and Provisions of the Combined Code in effect for the year ended 31st March 2004.
The Company has made significant progress in formalising existing policies and procedures in response to the revised Combined Code on which we shall be reporting next year.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Remuneration report on pages 28 to 32, the biographies and experience of the directors on page 64 and the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 25.
The Board Responsibilities The Board is responsible for setting strategic aims, ensuring necessary resources are in place to meet its objectives, reviewing management performance, ensuring the integrity of financial information and financial controls and systems of risk.
The Board met eight times during the year and has a number of matters reserved for its approval, including major investment expenditure, financing and dividend policy.
Details of the committees of the Board, each of which has clear terms of reference, and their responsibilities, membership and activities during the year are listed in this report.
Structure The Board has eight directors, three executive and five non-executive, their details and experience is given on page 64.
The separate roles of the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly established.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and neither represent a major shareholder group nor have any significant involvement in the day to day management of the Group.
Mr P J Grant, the Deputy Chairman is the senior independent director and is available to shareholders if normal channels of contact are not appropriate.
Directors concerns which cannot be resolved are recorded in the Board minutes.
There is appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
Information and development The Board and its Committees are provided with full and timely information to enable them to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board ensures that all new directors are sufficiently apprised of the Companys business and their duties as directors.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice is available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
The Board and its Committees continually monitor and review their own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
As part of the continual evaluation, the Board has carried out a review of the information provided to the Board and the formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
In addition the Board has reviewed the terms of reference of its Committees and the formal evaluation carried out by the Audit Committee.
Re-election of directors All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
The Hon R A Rayne and The Hon J M Wilson are due to retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and their experience is given on page 64.
The Combined Code requires that non-executive directors should not be appointed for more than nine years.
It is the Boards view that whilst such limits help to ensure that fresh ideas and views are available to the Board, they have the significant disadvantage of losing the contribution of directors who have a wealth of understanding of the Groups business.
No overall limits are therefore imposed on the term of appointment for non-executive directors.
Whenever non-executive directors are due to retire by rotation, their continued appointment for up to a further three years is subject to consideration by the Nomination Committee and approved by the Board.
The Board considers that this review is sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Statement of the directors responsibility to prepare financial statements, required by the Combined Code is given on page 25.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements Institutional shareholders A programme of presentations to institutional shareholders is implemented after results announcements and investors are encouraged to meet executive directors during the year.
The Chairman, the senior independent director and non-executive directors are available to attend meetings requested by major shareholders.
The Board is regularly apprised of the views of investors, analysts and the media.
Reports are made available to the Board on feedback received on an unattributable basis from analyst briefings and investor road shows carried out regularly by management.
The Annual General Meeting The Board believe that the Annual General Meeting is a good opportunity to communicate with all investors and the Company provides time for shareholders attending to meet and discuss matters with members of the Board outside the formal meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands the level of proxies lodged and the balance of votes is indicated.
The number of proxy votes lodged, how they were voted and the result of the resolution voted at the Annual General Meeting will be available on the Companys web site after the Annual General Meeting.
Members of CREST will be given the opportunity to vote electronically to maximise the number of votes cast.
All substantially separate issues are proposed as separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
All directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, where shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Nomination Committee The Board has a Nomination Committee of which a majority are independent non-executive directors.
The members, appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr G C Greene, also comprise Mr N R Friedlos, Mr P J Grant, Mrs J fide Moller, Mr D Newell, Mr M A Pexton, The Hon R A Rayne and The Hon J M Wilson.
Their experience is given on page 64.
The main role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee is set in written terms of reference in accordance with best practice and are reviewed annually.
The remit of the Nominations Committee is available on the Companys web site www.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the last 12 months and carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference, including reviewing its terms of reference, considering the skills and experience required by members of the Audit Committee and the re-election of directors retiring by rotation.
The Nomination Committee considered the effectiveness of the contribution of the directors retiring by rotation and concluded that each makes a valuable and effective contribution to the Company and recommended that their periods of appointment should continue for a further three years.
London Merchant Securities plc 27 Remuneration Committee Membership The Board has a Remuneration Committee of independent non-executive directors.
The members are appointed by the Board and chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Mr P J Grant.
It also includes, Mr G C Greene, Mrs J fide Moller and Mr D Newell.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year.
Responsibility The main role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee is set in written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The remit of the Remuneration Committee is available on the Companys web site www.
Activities During the year the Remuneration Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference and its activities are described in the directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 32.
The Audit Committee Membership The Board has an Audit Committee of independent non-executive directors.
The members are appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr D Newell.
It also includes Mr P J Grant, Mr G C Greene and Mrs J fide Moller.
The Nominations Committee has considered and recommended to the Board that collectively the Audit Committee has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its duties properly.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The Audit Committee has regular access to the Auditors and management and during the year the Committee met the Auditors without management being present.
Responsibility The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee is set in written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys web site www.
Activities During the year the Audit Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference and its activities are described below.
Financial statements The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Groups financial statements including significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and considered whether the disclosures made were set properly in context.
The review of the financial statements also included a review of the financial review, operating review and corporate governance statements relating to audit and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the impact of International Accounting Standards, as far as they are known, on the financial statements of the Group and have put in place a process to monitor the effectiveness of the systems to be implemented to meet the applicable requirements.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviewed the system and reported to the Board.
The Board confirms that throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of this annual report and accounts there has been a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in the business together with the design and operation of a suitable system of control to manage those risks.
Management is also responsible for ensuring that the risk profile of the business is kept under continuous review and that significant changes in the business or the external environment which affect the risk profile are identified and acted upon.
The Audit Committee has a responsibility to review the Groups internal control system and risk management system and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
To enable it to do this, the Audit Committee reviews the risks identified and the system of control in place to manage those risks.
It gives consideration in particular to the following:- A review of the inherent risks in the business which have been identified by management: The appropriateness of the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: The effectiveness of managements response to the significant risks which have been identified: A review of risk monitoring and reporting procedures in place: The Group policies and employee procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
As part of its reporting, management provides the Audit Committee with risk indicators and recommendations for improvement in the system of risk management.
The Board on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has adopted a policy whereby staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee is responsible for implementing and reviewing the policy.
External auditors The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
In accordance with the policy and the Committees terms of reference, the Audit Committee carried out a review of the independence of the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc and agreed to rotate the audit team a year in advance of the normal rotation period.
The Board has adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The implementation of the policy is continually monitored by the Audit Committee.
The policy excludes the auditors from providing services in relation to the outsourcing of internal audit and any other consultancy work that the Audit Committee considers are contrary to the ethical principles laid down by the Audit Committee.
The Committees considerations included the provision of non-audit services carried out by auditors described on page 40 and was satisfied that they were objective and independent of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor and the Board considers that the policy provides adequate protection of the auditors independence.
Internal audit The Audit Committee reviewed during the year the requirement for an internal audit function.
The Committee concluded that such a function was not required due to the size of the Group and number of employees.
Evaluation The Audit Committee carried out a formal evaluation of its roles and responsibilities.
The review included the terms of reference, membership and meetings, training and resources, financial reporting, internal control, audit process and relations with the Board.
