Corporate governance statement 1 Compliance statement Decision-making The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles governance throughout the Group and supports the main of the Chairman, who is responsible for the effective operation principles, supporting principles and provisions set out in the of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible for new Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in the management of the Groups day-to-day activities.
The remainder of this report explains individual has unfettered powers of decision and no one how the Company has applied the main and supporting individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards principles.
Other than where detailed in this report, the decision-making processes.
The Board believes that it oversees Company has throughout the financial year complied with the Group effectively and is led by the Chairman, who is the provisions of the Code.
responsible for setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
2 Board of Directors The Chairman facilitates the contribution of all Directors and Structure is responsible for ensuring that constructive relations exist The Board consists of three Executive and five Non-Executive between them.
The Board sets strategic aims for the Company Directors.
Three of the Non-Executive Directors, Nick Cosh, and makes sure that the necessary financial and human Ghislain Lescuyer and Cliff Preddy are considered by the resources are in place to achieve its objectives.
It is also Board to be independent in the terms as set out in the responsible for reviewing the performance of management.
Nick Cosh is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Board on The Board has a documented schedule of matters reserved to it 19 January 2004. for decision, including the approval of major capital expenditure and the agreement of strategy and budgets.
All Directors have The Directors are aware that during the period under review access to the services of Alan Pottinger, Company Secretary, and notwithstanding the appointment of Ghislain Lescuyer as a who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are further independent Non-Executive Director, the structure of the followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied Board does not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Code which with, and that the Board is kept advised of all governance requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, matters.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The briefed on issues considered at Board meetings and, to enable appointment of a further independent Non-Executive Director them properly to discharge their duties, all Directors receive will remain under consideration during 2005. accurate and clear information in a timely manner.
This includes detailed briefings on all matters where the Board is required to The names of the Directors together with details of their make a decision or give its approval, together with regular memberships of the various Board Committees are set out in the reports on such issues as the trading performance and outlook.
table below and their biographies appear on pages 22 and 23.
Specific business presentations from senior management and others are given where appropriate, thereby ensuring the Structure of the Board and its Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Name PLC Board Independent Committee Committee Committee Ron Sandler Executive Chairman No No No Chairman Mike Norris Executive No No No No Tony Conophy Executive No No No No Nick Cosh Senior Independent Director Yes Chairman Yes Yes Phil Hulme Non-Executive No No No No 1 1 1 Ghislain Lescuyer Non-Executive Yes Yes Yes Yes 2 Peter Ogden Non-Executive No No No No Cliff Preddy Non-Executive Yes Yes Chairman Yes Alan Pottinger Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary 1 Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed on 19 January 2004.
2 Prior to Ghislain Lescuyers appointment and until the completion of his induction, Peter Ogden served as a member of this Committee.
As a result, the composition of this Committee during the early part of 2004 did not comply with provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
24 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors continually update their knowledge of, and familiarity Nomination Committee with, the Group.
Directors are entitled, at the Companys Members: Ron Sandler Chairman, Nick Cosh, expense, to obtain independent professional advice where Ghislain Lescuyer and Cliff Preddy they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
The Committee Chairman is Ron Sandler, the Executive Insurance cover is arranged in respect of legal action against Chairman of the Board, and all of the other members are the Directors.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Committee on 19 January 2004.
The Directors set appropriate values and standards, ensuring The Committees responsibilities include leading the process that obligations to shareholders and others are understood and for Board appointments, reviewing the Board composition, met and that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes skills, knowledge and experience, and nominating candidates place.
A framework of prudent and effective controls exists for both Executive and Non-Executive Directorships on the to enable risk to be assessed and managed.
basis of merit and objective criteria.
It also ensures that the procedures for the appointment of new Directors are formal, Each year excluding those Directors retiring and not seeking rigorous and transparent and that there is an orderly re-election and those retiring following their appointment during succession for appointments to the Board and senior the year, the number of the Directors nearest to but not management.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, exceeding one-third retire by rotation.
In addition, all Directors the majority of this Committees members are independent must retire by rotation every three years and those NonNon-Executive Directors.
Although the Committee Chairman Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years is not an independent Non-Executive Director, which means are required to offer themselves for re-election annually.
that there has not been full compliance with provision A.
4.1 of the Code, the Board is satisfied that the chosen composition A procedure to facilitate formal performance evaluations of the of the Committee is appropriate for the effective discharge of Board, its Committees and individual Directors was introduced its duties.
Each Board member completed a confidential questionnaire designed to examine matters of Board and When making a recommendation for the appointment of a Committee structure, objectives and processes.
Questionnaires Director, the Committee will evaluate the existing balance of were followed up by individual meetings with the Chairman to skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and produce a explore more fully the issues raised.
The results of this process description of the role and capabilities required for such an were then presented to the Board as a whole for assessment appointment.
The Committee typically uses the services of and review, and actions were agreed to address areas requiring external advisers to help identify candidates from a wide improvement.
The review of the performance of the Chairman is range of backgrounds who will then be considered on merit undertaken annually by the Remuneration Committee.
This process was followed in the appointment of Ghislain Lescuyer as a Non-Executive Director Principal Board Committees on 19 January 2004.
The Board has delegated certain duties to three Committees, the main responsibilities and composition of which are as Remuneration Committee follows: Members: Cliff Preddy Chairman, Ghislain Lescuyer and Nick Cosh Audit Committee All of the members of this Committee are independent Members: Nick Cosh, Chairman, Ghislain Lescuyer Non-Executive Directors.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to and Cliff Preddy the Committee on 19 January 2004.
Philip Hulme and Peter All of the members of this Committee are independent NonOgden attend the Committee meetings as requested.
During 2004 the Audit Committee met Sandler attends meetings but absents himself when his own four times and a record of each Directors attendance is set remuneration is considered.
The Committee determines the out in the table on page 26.
The Chairman, Group Finance Companys general policy on executive remuneration, the Director, Group Internal Auditor and the external auditor are specific packages for the Executive Directors and the level and invited to and attend all meetings.
The Committee assists structure of remuneration for senior employees.
The Committee the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing a wide also monitors and reviews the terms and conditions of the range of matters including the Groups annual and interim Executive Directors service agreements, determines the grant financial statements and accompanying reports to shareholders, of share options to them and senior employees, and appoints the preliminary announcement of results and any other any consultants used in assessing their remuneration.
The announcement regarding financial performance.
In addition, it Committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed by the reviews and advises the Board on the scope, cost-effectiveness Board to ensure that its activities comply fully with the provisions and result of the audit and the external auditors independence of the Code, and in particular, that there is a formal and and objectivity.
The volume of non-audit services provided by transparent procedure for developing policy on executive the external auditor is also reviewed in advance by the remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of Committee to ensure objectivity, independence and value for individual Directors.
The Committee monitors the integrity of internal financial controls and risk management systems.
It also reviews reports Throughout 2004, the terms of reference for each Committee presented by the Internal Audit Department and the Risk and were available from the Company Secretary on request and Insurance Department regarding significant operational risks and were posted on the Companys website from March 2005. controls to ensure that the latter are robust.
In addition, the Full compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code was Committee reviews arrangements for answering staff concerns therefore not achieved for the period under review.
over improprieties, should these arise, ensuring that procedures are in place for appropriate investigation and follow-up.
Computacenter plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance statement continued The attendance of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2004 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of scheduled meetings held 8 4 2 1 Executive: Ron Sandler, Chairman 8 n a n a 1 Mike Norris, Chief Executive 8 n a n a n a Tony Conophy, Finance Director 8 n a n a n a Non-Executive: Nick Cosh, Senior Independent Director 8 4 2 1 Phil Hulme 6 n a n a n a Ghislain Lescuyer, Independent Director 6 2 2 1 Peter Ogden 5 2 n a n a Cliff Preddy, Independent Director 8 4 2 1 Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Board and Board Committees on 19 January 2004 and was unable to attend some of the scheduled meetings due to prior commitments on the specified dates.
Peter Ogden resigned as member of the Audit Committee on 4 May 2004.
From time to time, additional meetings are required which may Director, is available to answer any shareholder concerns that not necessarily demand attendance by all Directors, depending are unable to be resolved through regular channels.
In addition on the nature of the business to be discussed.
During the year, to mandatory information, a full and balanced explanation of two such meetings were required to conclude matters the business of all general meetings is sent to shareholders.
previously considered by the Board.
Ron Sandler, Mike Norris, The Board welcomes the attendance of individual shareholders Tony Conophy and Cliff Preddy attended both meetings and at general meetings and the opportunity to communicate Nick Cosh, Phil Hulme, Ghislain Lescuyer and Peter Ogden with investors and address any questions they may have.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been passed on a show of hands, and proxies for and against each It is inevitable that there will be occasions when circumstances resolution together with any abstentions are announced at arise to prevent Directors from attending meetings.
In such such meetings and noted in the minutes.
circumstances, the usual practice is for the absent Director to review the Board papers and to raise any considerations on 5.
Accountability and audit specific issues with the Chairman.
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the Groups systems of internal control, ensuring In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the these are prudent and robust, and enable risks to be properly Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the assessed and managed.
Systems are designed to manage Executives present at least once a year.
The Non-Executives rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business also meet without the Chairman to appraise his performance.
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are All systems of internal control are designed to continuously contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 31. identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group, key elements of which are as follows: 4.
Relations with shareholders The Executive Directors have regular contact with institutional Management structure shareholders except during close periods and dialogue with The Board has overall responsibility for making significant shareholders generally is accorded a high priority.
The Executive Directors, together with a has a programme of meetings with its major institutional number of senior managers, constitute the Group Executive shareholders and presents to analysts at least twice a year Committee, which meets on a regular basis to discuss day-tofollowing the announcement of its interim and final results.
Separate Executive Committees have Chairman arranges for the Directors to receive regular reports been established for each of the Groups operations in the UK, on shareholders views to ensure the Board develops an France and Germany.
A flat reporting structure is maintained understanding of the matters of concern to the major across the Group with clearly defined responsibilities for shareholders.
Nick Cosh, as Senior Independent Non-Executive operational and financial management.
26 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Control environment 6.
Board review of internal control The Group operates authorisation and approval processes The Directors confirm that a sound system of internal control that are an integral part of its operations.
Access controls is maintained and that procedures were in place to identify, exist where processes have been automated to ensure the evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group security of data.
Management information systems have been throughout the year under review and up to the date of developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include: effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced, and the further scrutiny of costs and revenues consideration of regular reports presented by the encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer Internal Audit Department, external audit and satisfaction and profitability.
operational management: regular review of financial and management reports Budgetary process and information: A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually consideration of actions taken by management to and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is address any issues identified: monitored through a rigorous and detailed reporting system consideration of the results of reviews of Group risk through which monthly results are compared to budgets.
The results and explanations for variances are regularly and routinely reported to the Board.
Appropriate action is taken The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed where variances arise.
the work of Internal Audit towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Committee Risk management approves a rolling audit programme ensuring that all significant Specialist departments monitor developments and ensure areas of the business are independently reviewed within a compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
The programme and the findings of the comprehensive risk management programme is monitored and reviews are continually assessed to ensure they take account developed by the Risk Committee, which comprises key of the latest information and, in particular, the results of the operational managers.
Through a programme of assessment, annual review of internal control.
The effectiveness of the appropriate measures and systems of control are maintained.
Internal Audit Department and the Companys risk management Detailed contingency plans are in place or being developed for programme is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the Capital expenditure and investments system of internal control including financial, operational and Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure compliance controls and risk management systems.
In addition that capital expenditure is properly appraised and authorised.
all major risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee and by key Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and approved managers across the Group, and are recorded in a risk register, at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to which is updated regularly.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that approval by the Board.
the risks identified by the system of internal control are being managed appropriately.
Centralised treasury function All cash payments and receipts are managed by centralised accounting functions within each of the operating companies.
Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group Finance Department ensures the position of the Group as a whole is properly controlled.
RA Sandler Chairman Quality and integrity of staff The suitability of staff is determined through rigorous recruitment procedures.
Management continuously monitors training requirements and annual appraisal procedures are in place to ensure that required standards are maintained.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
Computacenter plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
