qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 11 Audit committee report The Audit Committee the Committee is Membership Main activities of the Committee established under terms of reference approved The Committee comprises solely of independent In the year under review the Committee has by the Board.
P J Manser has chaired undertaken: the Committee throughout the period since 1st - Detailed reviews of published annual and interim Principal Responsibilities October 2003.
Other members of the Committee financial information including consideration of who served throughout the year were J R K Emly The principal responsibilities of the Committee, the appropriateness of accounting policies and and A W MacDonald.
The Company Secretary set out in its terms of reference, are as follows: material assumptions and estimates adopted by acts as Secretary to the Committee.
management: - To consider the appointment and independence P J Manser is a Fellow of the Institute of of the external auditors and make appropriate - Reviews of managements reports to the Board on Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
recommendations to the Board: risk management and internal controls and the J R K Emly is a Fellow of the Institute of Companys public statements on these matters: - To recommend the audit fee to the Board and Chartered Secretaries.
approve any fees in respect of non-audit - Monitoring the risk and control strategies of the services provided by the external auditors: Companys principal managing agents and Meetings commencing a programme of periodic external - To discuss with the external auditors the nature reviews: and scope of their audit and quality control The Committee has met four times during the procedures and review their management letter year ended 30th September 2004.
The Finance - A review of the performance and independence presented at the completion of the audit: Director and representatives of the external of the external auditors concluding in a auditors have been invited to attend each recommendation to the Board on the - To consider whether there is a need to establish meeting.
The Committee considers some items reappointment of the auditors by shareholders an internal audit function and make a of business without one or both of these invited at the Annual General Meeting: recommendation to the Board: parties present as appropriate.
- Monitoring non-audit assignments awarded to - To review the executive managements reports the external auditors in light of the Committees on risk management and the effectiveness of policy that such assignments will not be awarded systems for internal financial control and to the audit firm if there is a risk of a conflict financial reporting: and arising with the firms independence and objectivity: - To review and report to the Board on any financial information to be published by the - A review of the need to establish an internal Company.
audit function: and The Committees terms of reference were - Monitoring developments in accounting and reviewed and up-dated by the Board in November reporting requirements and in particular the 2003 and are available on the Companys web site.
Companys implementation of changes arising from the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for the Companys reporting period commencing 1st October 2005.
A detailed programme is now underway to evaluate the impact of adopting the new Standards with the aim of publishing a summary of the anticipated key changes with the 2005 interim results.
On behalf of the Board P John Manser Audit Committee Chairman 1st December 2004 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2004 35
