qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 4 Corporate governance property management strategies and all The Board of Directors is responsible to Board changes shareholders for the management and control significant aspects of finance.
The schedule of P L Levy advised the Board in July 2004 of his matters reserved for the Board was reviewed of the Companys activities and is committed to intention to retire as Chairman on 30th September high standards of Corporate Governance.
and up-dated in November 2003 and is available 2004.
Having considered both internal and on the Companys web site.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied external candidates, the Nomination Committee throughout the year with the recommendations recommended to the Board the appointment of The role of Company Secretary is carried out by of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance P J Manser as Chairman, recognising his extensive the Finance Director.
"The Board considers that issued in June 1998 the ""Combined Code"" business and corporate experience."
In addition, combining these roles does not compromise the and, where appropriate, has adopted new the Nomination Committee recommended proper execution of the Secretarys responsibilities procedures to ensure compliance with the the appointment of J R K Emly as Senior for governance or other matters.
revised Combined Code issued in July 2003.
The Board accepted The application of the principles contained in All Directors have access to the Company these recommendations.
the Combined Code is described below.
Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that On 1 October 2004 P J Manser, who was Senior Board procedure, corporate governance, statutory and compliance obligations are met.
Directors Independent Director throughout the year, was appointed Chairman and chairman of the may seek independent professional advice at Composition of the Board the Companys expense in furtherance of their Nomination Committee.
On that date J R K Emly The Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, became Senior Independent Director.
four executive Directors and three independent The Board, on advice from the Nomination The Company maintains Directors and Officers non-executive Directors during the year under Liability insurance.
In October 2003, cover was Committee, has resolved to appoint an additional review.
P L Levy, the Chairman throughout the non-executive Director in 2005.
It is anticipated increased from 2 million to 5 million.
year until his retirement on 30th September 2004, that the new appointee will have the necessary had previously been an executive Director and The Board has established three committees to financial experience to assume the chairmanship was therefore not considered to be independent.
deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs.
Following this new Each of the other non-executive Directors is The terms of reference of these committees appointment, P J Manser will resign from both considered to be independent of the executive team were reviewed and up-dated in November 2003 the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
and free from any business or other relationship and are available on the Companys web site.
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Functioning of the Board Audit Committee Each of the executive Directors is a member of a The Board has met six times during the year recognised professional body and is expected to The Audit Committee comprises P J Manser as ended 30th September 2004.
Its function is to act in accordance with the ethical principles of Chairman, J R K Emly and A W MacDonald.
formulate strategy and monitor and control the relevant body.
The non-executive Directors operating and financial performance.
This is The Committee has met four times during the are of high calibre and contribute wide-ranging achieved through the regular review of operations year ended 30th September 2004.
The Companys business and financial experience to the Boards and detailed reports on activity within the auditors and executives have attended by invitation.
The Board considers that Companys property portfolio, quarterly financial The principal responsibilities of the Committee the balance between executive and non-executive reporting and budget up-dates, and regular are to monitor the framework of financial controls Directors allows it to exercise objectivity in reviews of risk and internal controls.
During the and review published financial information.
In decision-making and proper control of the year, the Board conducted a review of performance addition, it advises the Board on the appointment Companys business.
and effectiveness and will in future carry out of external auditors and their remuneration for Biographies of each member of the Board are this appraisal process annually.
both audit and non-audit work.
All Directors are required to In addition to Board meetings, there is regular A report by the Audit Committee is set out on submit themselves for re-election at the Annual communication between executive and nonpage 35.
General Meeting following their appointment executive Directors to ensure they are fully and thereafter at three yearly intervals.
aware of all aspects of the Companys The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are operations.
The Chairman is responsible for the periodically during the year without executive leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness Directors present.
The Chief Executive has There is a formal schedule of matters reserved responsibility for the management of the Companys to the Board for decision which includes, inter day-to-day operations.
A formal statement of the alia, approval of all investment property division of responsibilities between the Chairman acquisitions and disposals, refurbishment and and Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board.
qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 5 Attendance at Meetings Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 30th September 2004 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Number of meetings in year 642 2 The Remuneration Committee comprises J R K Emly as Chairman, P J Manser and A W Attended Attended Attended Attended MacDonald.
Executive Directors The Committee has met twice during the year J S Lane 6 - - - ended 30th September 2004.
The principal B Bickell 6 - - - responsibilities of the Committee are to consider S J Quayle 6 - - - the employment terms and remuneration of T J C Welton 6 - - - executive Directors.
Proposals in respect of Non Executive Directors matters relating to Directors remuneration are P L Levy 5 - - 1 P J Manser 6 4 2 2 submitted to the Board for approval before J R K Emly 6 4 2 2 implementation.
A W MacDonald 5 3 2 2 A report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 30 to 34. b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of Internal Control authority.
The Board has responsibility for The Directors are responsible for the Companys Nomination Committee strategy and has adopted a schedule of systems of internal controls and for reviewing matters which are required to be brought The Nomination Committee was chaired by their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to to it for decision.
P L Levy throughout the year until his retirement manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by from the Board on 30th September 2004. the business and can provide only reasonable and c A comprehensive system of financial reporting J R K Emly, P J Manser and A W MacDonald not absolute assurance against material and forecasting.
Financial accounts are prepared served throughout the year.
P J Manser was misstatement or loss.
quarterly and submitted to the Board.
Profit appointed chairman of the Committee from and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to 1st October 2004. quarterly, approved by the Board and used to review the both the risks facing the business, the monitor actual performance.
The Committee has met twice during the year controls established to minimise those risks and ended 30th September 2004.
The Committee is d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit their effectiveness in operation.
The aim of these responsible for the selection and nomination of reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that Committee at which financial information is candidates for directorship and in addition reviewed and business risks are identified and material risks and problems are identified and advises the Board on the orderly succession for appropriate action taken at an early stage.
Reports on this review process have been In view of the Companys controls structure submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board summarised above, and on advice from the Audit during the year to enable them to assess the Committee, the Board has resolved that at the effectiveness of the process.
Relations with Shareholders present time there is no need to establish an The Board confirms that procedures to identify, internal audit function.
The Company encourages dialogue with all shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Company have been in place throughout during the year.
The Chairman and Committee Chairmen are present at the Annual General the year under review and up to the date of Going Concern approval of this Annual Report.
Meeting to deal with any matters raised by After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors shareholders.
The key elements of the Companys procedures have a reasonable expectation that the Company The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet and internal financial control framework are: has adequate resources to continue in operational investor representatives at least annually to existence for the foreseeable future.
For this a The close involvement of the executive discuss strategic and other issues within the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern Directors in all aspects of day-to-day constraints imposed to ensure the protection of basis in preparing the financial statements.
operations, including regular meetings with price sensitive information which has not already senior staff to review all operational aspects of By Order of the Board been made available to all shareholders.
Brian Bickell Board receives regular reports prepared by the Companys brokers on these meetings.
1st December 2004 The Senior Independent Director is available Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2004 to shareholders as an alternative channel of communication with the Board.
