Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 49 Corporate governance guidelines The Company is required to For the Company, this was effective from In addition to meeting its obligations for 1 January 2004. improving shareholder value, the Board has comply with The Combined a responsibility to the Groups customers, Code on Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance employees and suppliers, and to the the Code which came The Company believes that, as communities where it develops and invests.
into effect for reporting demonstrated by the information set out in this section and in the Remuneration All these principles and responsibilities are years beginning on or after Report, it has applied the principles and founded upon the basis of maintaining the 1 November 2003. save as indicated, complied with the successful continuity of the business.
provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it and discusses and makes The Board decisions relating to, but not limited to, The Board of Directors represents the strategy and management, structure and shareholders interests in maintaining and capital, financial reporting controls, internal growing a successful business including controls, contracts, communication, Board optimising consistent long-term financial membership and other appointments, returns.
The Board is accountable for remuneration, delegation of authority, determining that the company and its corporate governance matters and policies, subsidiaries are managed in such a way significant acquisition and disposals of to achieve this objective.
The Board has assets and development approvals.
a general responsibility to ensure that in good times as well as times of adversity There are the following Board Committees: the Executive is fulfilling its responsibilities.
Audit The Boards responsibility is to monitor Remuneration regularly the effectiveness of the Nomination Executives policies and decisions, including the implementation and Membership of these committees are on execution of its strategies.
Below is a table of the attendance: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Nomination Name 11 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings Committee Sir Nigel Mobbs 11 1 I D Coull 11 1 Lord Blackwell 11 3 5 1 Both these directors are resident in the US and J A N Heawood 11 therefore do not travel over for every Board meeting.
S L Howard 11 3 5 1 D Kramer was ill for part of 2004 and was therefore R D Kingston 11 unable to attend meetings.
D Kramer 3 P D Orchard-Lisle stepped down from the M D Lees 5 Remuneration Committee in November 2004 and in Lord MacGregor 9 3 3 March 2004 from the Audit Committee.
P D Orchard-Lisle 10 2 5 1 Lord MacGregor stepped down from the A W Palmer 10 3 1 Remuneration Committee in April 2004.
C A Peacock 11 51 50 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance guidelines continued Terms of Reference for each of the Board deemed independent.
The Board however, Committees are available on the Companys considers that both directors have brought website www.
com or on an independence of judgement and a written request from the Company distinctive and considerable benefit to its Secretary as are the terms of appointment deliberations and to those of the for the non-executive directors, Chairman Remuneration and Audit Committees.
P D Orchard-Lisle, who joined the Board in Chairman and Chief Executive 1980, is Deputy Chairman and continues Sir Nigel Mobbs was appointed Chairman to provide excellent and penetrating advice in 1976. on a range of property issues where his advice is invaluable.
During 2004 he I D Coull was appointed Chief Executive relinquished his role as Chairman of the in 2003.
Remuneration Committee and stepped down from that Committee.
The Board has approved written roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Lord MacGregor joined the Board in 1995.
He is currently Chairman of the Audit In addition to the Chairman, there are four Committee.
With impending changes in executive directors and P D Orchard-Lisle accounting standards, the Board believes Deputy Chairman, Lord Blackwell Senior that continuity of direction of the Independent non-executive and five other Committee is important.
directors have indicated an intention to retire from the Board in 2006.
The Board considers that the following non-executives are independent in both D Kramer is not considered to be character and judgement and there are no independent and will be retiring at this relationships or circumstances which are years Annual General Meeting.
likely to affect or appear to affect the individuals judgement.
Appointments to the Board A Nomination Committee comprising, Lord Blackwell Sir Nigel Mobbs, who chairs this S L Howard committee, I D Coull, Lord Blackwell, S L A W Palmer Howard, P D Orchard-Lisle, A W Palmer C A Peacock and C A Peacock, a majority of whom are The Board recognise that the current independent non-executive directors.
The composition of the Board does not Committee has responsibility for making comply that at least half of the directors recommendations for new appointments to are independent, and in this respect the the Board.
Outside consultants give advice Company is not in compliance with the to the Committee regarding searches for code but steps are being taken to meet potential new non-executive directors.
The Committee evaluates the balance of P D Orchard-Lisle and Lord MacGregor skills, knowledge and experience on the have both been on the Board for more Board and prepares a description of the than 10 years.
As their service exceeds role and capabilities required for a the guidelines they are by definition not particular appointment.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 51 Information and professional Re-election developments All directors are subject to periodic reBoard meetings are held on a regular appointment by the shareholders at three basis with some 11 meetings being yearly intervals.
programmed each year, with additional ad hoc ones being arranged if necessary.
Non-executive directors are appointed and are then subject to periodic reThe Board receives timely advice on all appointment.
After two terms of 3 years material information about the company, there is a rigorous assessment prior its subsidiaries, its activities, performance to their being proposed.
and its projects, particularly including any significant variances from a planned course The level and make-up of remuneration of progress.
The pay and benefits for executive directors, including the Chairman, is Directors are encouraged to continually determined by the Remuneration update their professional skills and Committee.
The Committee comprises, capabilities, together with knowledge S L Howard Chairman, Lord Blackwell of the companys business.
P D Orchard-Lisle, who was Chairman of the Committee, On appointment, new directors are given stepped down in November 2004. a comprehensive introduction to the Groups business including visits to the Up until November 2004 the Remuneration Groups activities and meetings with Committee did not comprise solely of nonsenior management.
executive directors who were deemed independent and in this respect the All directors have access to the advice and Company was not for that period only in services of the Company Secretary, who is compliance with the Code.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
For non-executive directors, their fees and remuneration is determined by the Performance evaluation Board on the advice of the company The Board undertakes a formal annual Chairman.
The remuneration of executive evaluation of its own performance and that directors and non-executive directors will of its committees and individual directors.
be the subject of continual monitoring of The Chairman leads this process.
The comparable companies and the assistance performance evaluation consists of each of independent external advisers will be director completing a questionnaire and sought from time to time.
then having one-to-one reviews with the Chairman.
His performance is evaluated by The Remuneration Report is on pages the non-executive directors led by the 60 to 69.
The results of the evaluation are discussed by the Board.
There were no major issues identified from the 2004 evaluation.
52 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance guidelines continued Accountability and audit c discussing with the external auditor, k reviewing, and challenging where There is an Audit Committee comprising before the audit commences, the necessary, the actions and judgements Lord MacGregor Chairman, Lord nature and scope of the audit and of management, in relation to the Blackwell, S L Howard and A W Palmer.
reviewing the auditors quality control interim and annual financial statements Lord MacGregor, who is not deemed procedures and steps taken by the before submission to the Board, independent, has been on the Board auditor to respond to changes in paying particular attention to: since 1995. regulatory and other requirements: 1. critical accounting policies and As the Audit Committee does not solely d overseeing the process for selecting practices, and any changes in them comprise non-executive directors who are the external auditor and making deemed independent the Company is not appropriate recommendations through 2. decisions requiring a major element in compliance with the Code.
The Board the Board to the shareholders to of judgement is entirely satisfied that Lord MacGregor consider at the AGM: is independent in character and 3. the extent to which the financial judgement, that there are no relationships e reviewing the external auditors statements are affected by any or circumstances that are likely to affect, management letter and unusual transactions in the year or could appear to affect, his judgement.
managements response: and how they are disclosed Further, Lord MacGregor has the experience and makes important f reviewing annually the need for an 4. the clarity of disclosures contributions to strategic issues and internal audit function as compared corporate governance.
With the with the current arrangement of self- 5. significant adjustments resulting forthcoming changes to the accounting certification and review: from the audit regime following the introduction of the International Accounting Standards, the g considering managements response 6. the going concern assumption Board believes that continuity of direction to any major external audit or internal is very important.
review recommendations: 7. compliance with accounting standards The Terms of Reference of the Audit h reviewing from time to time the Committee are: companys procedures for handling 8. compliance with stock exchange allegations from whistleblowers: and other legal requirements a assessing the independence of the external auditors: i reviewing the assessment and 9. reviewing the companys statement management of risk, including financial, on internal control systems prior to b recommendation of the audit fee to the market, operational, legal, regulatory endorsement by the Board and to Board and pre-approve any fees in and reputational risks, and reviewing review the policies and process for respect of non-audit services provided management, internal auditors reports identifying and assessing business by the external auditors in excess of if appointed and the comments of the risks and the management of those a fee of 25,000 per assignment.
For external auditors: risks by the company: the avoidance of doubt, the provision of normal taxation advice is to be j reviewing managements and the l reviewing significant litigation and regarded as being included within internal auditors reports if appointed legal risk if not in the ordinary course normal audit services: on the effectiveness of systems for of business : and internal financial control and reporting: m reviewing the internal audit programme if an internal audit function is appointed.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 53 Accountability and audit During 2004 the Board discharged its Relations with shareholders Financial reporting responsibility for internal control through The Chairman, Chief Executive and The Board believes that it presents a the following key procedures: designated directors will be the companys balanced and understandable assessment principal spokesmen with investors, fund of the companys position and prospects.
the establishment of an organisational managers, the press and other interested structure with clearly defined levels of parties.
The Senior Independent Director Going concern authority and division of responsibilities: will also make himself available to After making enquiries, the directors have a comprehensive system of reporting, investors.
The Board will be fully informed a reasonable expectation that the Group budgeting and planning against which as to the information imparted to has adequate resources to continue its performance is monitored: shareholders and their reactions.
operational existence for the foreseeable the formulation of policies and of future.
For this reason they continue to approval procedures in a number There are regular meetings with institutional adopt the going concern basis in preparing of key areas such as treasury shareholders held by the Chief Executive the accounts.
operations, capital expenditures and and Finance Director which are reported environmental matters.
The Chairman and the Internal control reviewed from time to time by the senior independent non-executive director The Board has overall responsibility for the Board to confirm their adequacy: have separate meetings with institutional Groups system of internal control and for the provision of a code of conduct for shareholders and these are also reported reviewing its effectiveness.
employees and the monitoring of the on to the Board.
quality of personnel through an annual As regards risk management, there is an performance appraisal process.
Constructive use of the AGM ongoing process for identifying, evaluating At the AGM investors are given the and managing the significant risks faced The internal control system is monitored opportunity to question the Board and by the Group.
The executive directors through a process of self-certification to meet with them afterwards.
They are and senior operational management are whereby senior management report on encouraged to participate in the Meeting.
responsible for identifying key risks and the operation of those elements of the assessing their likelihood and impact system for which they are responsible.
Photographic displays and literature through formal processes at both Group are available to illustrate the and subsidiary levels.
The controls that are The Board has reviewed the effectiveness companys developments.
in place to manage these significant risks of the Groups systems of internal control in each unit have been identified within a during the financial year.
This involved comprehensive control framework and an consideration of a management report assessment has been made of the on the systems and the results of the effectiveness of these controls.
Two full risk self-certification process.
A complete risk and control assessment The Group does not have an internal audit was undertaken before reporting on the function and has concluded that the year ending 31 December 2004. internal control systems discussed above are sufficient for the Group at this time.
It must be recognised that such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
