com Corporate governance COMPLIANCE It is the opinion of the Board that all of the Non-Executive Directors are The Company recognises the importance of and is committed to attaining the considered to be independent of management and have no business or other highest standards of corporate governance.
It is a requirement of the Listing relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their Rules of the UK Listing Authority that listed companies disclose in their annual judgement.
report and accounts how they have applied the principles set out in Section 1 of Save as referred to above in relation to Mr J Callcutt, each of the Executive the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Directors service contracts contains a notice period of a maximum of one year.
Combined Code and whether or not they have complied with its detailed The maximum notice period under each Non-Executive Directors letter of provisions throughout the financial year.
During the financial year ending 31st October 2004 the Company complied fully The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code appointment expiring as follows: except as follows:- Mr J W Matthews Chairman On 6 months notice The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code in Mr R S Lidgate 28th April 2006 that less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent NonMr R T Scholes 30th June 2006 Executive Directors.
The current division of responsibilities and structure of the Mr L J Wigglesworth Senior Independent Director 31st October 2006 business requires an executive team of four Executive Directors.
It is the view of the Board that the range and blend of skills of the Board match the needs of Mr L J Wigglesworth was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1st the business and it is unnecessary to appoint a fourth independent NonNovember 2003.
Executive Director at the present time.
It is a requirement of the Companys Articles of Association that each Director In the event of a change of control or a change of employer prior to 31st should offer himself for re-election every three years.
The Articles similarly March 2005 Mr J Callcutts service agreement contains a notice period of two stipulate that any Director appointed by the Board is also required to offer years.
After that date and in all other circumstances Mr J Callcutt has a one himself for re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting year notice period.
These terms were agreed on 25th May 2004 and amended after such appointment.
an earlier agreement which had been agreed prior to the issue of both the All members of the Board are equally accountable under the law for the proper Combined Code and the Combined Codes predecessor published in June 1998. stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors are, Accordingly, the Company is not currently fully compliant with provision B.
1.6 of however, independent of management and free from any material business or the Combined Code but will be so before the Annual General Meeting.
other relationship with the Company, enabling them to bring an independent The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination judgement to bear on issues brought before the Board.
There is a clear division Committees have been made available on the Companys website since July of responsibility between the Chairman, Mr J W Matthews, and the full time 2004 and therefore the Company did not fully comply with provisions C. 3.3, B.
2.1 Chief Executive, Mr J Callcutt, to whom the Board has delegated responsibility or A.
4.1 of the Combined Code until that time.
It is now fully compliant.
The Company has not fully complied with principle A.
6 of the Combined The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and has an agreed schedule of Code performance evaluation.
During the year performance evaluations were matters reserved to it for collective decision.
These include strategic policies, carried out in respect of the individual Directors.
An evaluation of the Audit corporate performance reviews and overall financial and organisational control.
Committee was carried out before the year end and subsequently evaluations In addition, the Board meets outside of its agreed schedule as and when have been carried out in relation to the Board and the Remuneration, required.
It is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a Nomination and Social Responsibility Committees.
quality that is appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Although the Companys Senior Independent Director, Mr L J Wigglesworth, The Non-Executive Directors meet separately with the Chairman during the has been kept informed of the views of shareholders and analysts through the course of the year.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the receipt of broker and analyst reports, he has not actually attended, nor been Chairman at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
asked to attend, meetings with major shareholders during the course of the A formal procedure exists to allow Directors to take independent professional year other than the Companys Annual General Meeting.
As a result, provision advice and the Company will meet such reasonable expenses that arise in D. 1.1 of the Combined Code has not been fully complied with.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his Section 1 of the Combined Code contains fourteen main principles of good advice and services, and training is available for new and existing Directors, as governance which are divided into four main categories.
These categories and and when required.
Each member of the Board also has the benefit of the means by which the Company has complied with them are explained below.
appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions brought against him.
DIRECTORS Board Committees The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate governance and The Board has established the following Committees, the members of which are for establishing the policies and strategies of the Company.
The Board currently as follows: consists of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on page 29. www.
com 49 Corporate governance Audit Committee Executive Committee Mr R T Scholes Chairman Mr J Callcutt Chairman Mr R S Lidgate Mr S Stone Mr L J Wigglesworth Mr P Callcutt Mr D P Darby Mr J W Matthews resigned from the Committee on 2nd December 2003.
Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary The Audit Committee meets four times each year and provides a link between Mr P R Murray retired on 27th February 2004. the Board and the Companys internal and external auditors on matters coming within the scope of the Group audit.
These matters include accounting The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and acts in an advisory standards and policies, internal financial and non-financial control procedures, capacity in the creation and implementation of policy, trading strategies and the and the Group accounts.
The duties of the Audit Committee include keeping taking of major decisions.
under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Committee for Social Responsibility Companys policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Mr J Callcutt Chairman auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is not impaired.
The Mr R S Lidgate Committee also reviews all Preliminary and Interim Statements before they are Mr L J Wigglesworth presented to the Board.
The Committee does not become involved in the day to Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary day running of the business, which remains the responsibility of the Executive Mr P Donnelly Environmental Manager Directors.
The Committee for Social Responsibility is charged with managing the The terms of reference of the Committee have been published on the Company's ethical, social and environmental policies so as to achieve a Companys web site www.
com since July 2004. balance between its commercial objectives and its obligations to society at large.
Remuneration Committee Mr R S Lidgate Chairman Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Mr R T Scholes The following table shows the number of meetings of the Board and each of the Mr L J Wigglesworth Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during the year ended 31st October 2004 and the attendance record of individual Directors.
Mr J W Matthews resigned from the Committee on 2nd December 2003.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times each year, to establish Committee Committee Committee and review, in consultation with the Chief Executive, the remuneration and Number of meetings 8 4 4 1 terms of employment of the Chairman, Executive Directors and certain senior executives.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are decided by a Mr J W Matthews 8 1 Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Mr J Callcutt 8 N A N A 1 Director.
Mr P Callcutt 8 N A N A N A The terms of reference of the Committee have been published on the Mr D P Darby 8 N A N A N A Companys web site www.
Mr S Stone 7 N A N A N A Mr R S Lidgate 8 4 4 1 Nomination Committee Mr J W Matthews Chairman Mr R T Scholes 7 4 3 1 Mr J Callcutt Mr L J Wigglesworth 7 3 3 1 Mr R S Lidgate Mr R T Scholes Mr J W Matthews resigned from the Audit Committee and Remuneration Mr L J Wigglesworth Committee on 2nd December 2003 but those Committees did not meet between The Nomination Committee meets as necessary to assess the suitability of 1st November 2003 and 2nd December 2003. persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
In future, the Nomination Committee Chairman 1 will meet at least every six months.
Prior to their appointment, all Non-Executive The Chairman, Mr J W Matthews, normally spends 1 2 days per week on the Directors are advised of the time commitment considered necessary to enable business of the Company.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in them to fulfil their responsibilities.
The Board is confident that these commitments do not hinder the ability of the Chairman to discharge his duties to the Company The terms of reference of the Committee have been published on the effectively.
com Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Centralised Functions Please refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 56 for details of the A number of the Groups key functions are controlled centrally.
finance, treasury, banking, litigation, taxation, pensions, insurance, information technology, human resources, health & safety, public relations and company ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT secretarial.
A review of the Groups performance and financial position is included in the Chairmans Statement and in the Operating and Financial Review.
The Board Internal Control Systems and Procedures Review uses these and the Directors Report to present a balanced and understandable The Company has developed a review process which enables key elements of assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The statement of internal control systems and procedures to be monitored, with the aim of Directors responsibilities is shown on page 31 and the going concern identifying areas of weakness and ensuring that the appropriate corrective statement is shown on page 30. action is taken.
The process includes a review by the Board on an annual basis and by the Risk Review Committee at each of its meetings.
The review focuses As indicated above, the Company has an established Audit Committee to whom on five principal areas of interest: the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Groups Internal Auditor, report.
Control environment The external auditors operate procedures to safeguard against the possibility Identification and evaluation of risks and controls objectives that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
This Information and communication includes the use of independent concurring partners and annual independence Control procedures confirmations by all staff.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on matters Monitoring and corrective actions including independence and non-audit fees on an annual basis.
In addition, the role of audit partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
Internal Audit As regards internal control, the Directors acknowledge responsibility for the The Company maintains an internal audit unit which reports to the Audit systems set up within the Group for this purpose and for reviewing their Committee.
It is charged with carrying out examinations and investigations effectiveness.
They are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute which assist in providing the Audit Committee with reasonable assurance of : assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company complies with compliance with established policies and procedures the Combined Codes principles on internal control reporting and throughout the the reliability and integrity of information year has operated the procedures necessary to implement the guidance on the safeguarding of assets and the economical and efficient use of internal control contained in the Turnbull Report published in September 1999. resources The Group has the following established framework of internal controls: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND THE MARKET The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional Financial Reporting shareholders, both current and prospective.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget and Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director normally attend the presentations associated three year plan approved by the Directors.
Actual results or to analysts following the Preliminary and Interim Announcements.
Meetings are performance are reported against budget and revised forecasts of profit, cash also held with major institutional shareholders.
A wide range of relevant issues flow and balance sheets are prepared each month.
The Company reports to are discussed at investor and analyst meetings including strategy, performance, shareholders on a half yearly basis.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Interim Reports and the Operating Unit Controls Companys website.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Controls and procedures, including information systems controls, are detailed in Board attend the Annual General Meeting which is used to communicate with policy and procedure manuals which are subject to regular review.
Their participation is welcomed and encouraged through a Authority Manual details the general principles of and specifies the limits question and answer session during the Meeting.
arising from the delegation of authority within the Group.
Day to day control is exercised by the members of the Executive Committee see above.
Both the Chairman and the Senior Non-Executive Director are available to meet shareholders if requested.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the Risk Identification views of shareholders and reports are provided to them on investor and analyst The Group has established a Risk Review Committee a sub-committee of the meetings.
The Companys financial public relations consultants provide Executive Committee which meets from time to time to assess and review the briefings to the Board on analyst opinion and compile independent feedback risks facing the business on an on-going basis and to ensure that reasonable from analyst meetings.
The Companys brokers provide briefings to the Board on levels of control are implemented to address those risks.
institutional shareholder opinion and compile independent feedback from meetings with institutional shareholders.
Investment Appraisal The Group has clearly defined systems for the authorisation and control of Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf projects, which are set out in a Land Manual.
The key element is the Project Committee a sub-committee of the Executive Committee which is responsible N I Hughes for the authorisation of all major projects.
