Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 33 Corporate governance This report is prepared in accordance with the 2003 FRC Combined Code the Code.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and is committed to high standards of corporate governance as outlined in the Code.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code except where noted on page 37.
This statement, together with the report on the directors remuneration, set out on pages 27 to 32, describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Board The Board, which meets at least eight times a year, has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision which is posted on the Companys website.
It is primarily responsible for the strategy needed for the successful direction of an international Group and currently comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and three independent non-executive directors.
Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23.
These demonstrate a range of business, financial and international experience which provides an appropriate balance of authority and experience throughout the Board.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Board delegates management of the business to the executive committee, headed by the Group Chief Executive.
The Board recognise the importance of line management taking ownership, and thereby responsibility, for managing and controlling the risks which may be inherent in their particular area of responsibility.
It is the Boards opinion that all non-executive directors who served throughout the period under review were independent in accordance with the Code.
At the date of his appointment, the Chairman was independent.
Attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the committees on which they sit is set out below.
Board meetings Nomination Remuneration Audit No.
held attended held attended held attended held attended A R Beevor 9 9 3 3 3 3 2 2 M C Buzzacott 4 4 1 1 2 2 D M Dunn 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 M A Ward 98334422 M Humphrey 9 9 1 1 B M Richmond 9 9 from date of appointment to respective committee between date of appointment and date of resignation from respective committee All directors have attended meetings of the Board and of committees of the Board of which they are members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
Under the Companys Articles of Association all directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
B M Richmond and M A Ward were re-elected at the 2002 AGM and are consequently retiring at the AGM but are offering themselves for re-election.
M C Buzzacott retires under Article 84 and offers himself for election.
Details of the re-elections are given in the notice of the AGM, a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report.
On an ad hoc basis the Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present and also the non-executive directors meet at least annually without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Company Secretary would minute any unresolved concerns expressed by any director.
Were a director to resign over an unresolved issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
There have been no such instances during the year.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 34 Corporate governance In furtherance of the principles of good corporate governance, the Board has appointed the following committees.
All these committees have written terms of reference.
Other executives attend the meetings of these committees when invited to do so by the committee chairman.
Executive committee Mike Humphrey Chairman David Barraclough Keith Gregersen Keith Layden appointed 1 January 2005 Kevin Nutbrown Barbara Richmond The executive committee meets every month to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board or to any of the committees mentioned below.
Among other matters, it reviews investment proposals below the levels which are reserved for Board approval.
Audit committee Michael Ward Chairman Antony Beevor resigned 22 December 2004 Michael Buzzacott appointed 27 September 2004 David Dunn Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website, including the committees role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The audit committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It assists the Board in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls, internal audit activities and compliance procedures are in place.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the committees work.
Members have recent employment in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities.
Audit independence The audit committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditors,  LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner and manager are present at all audit committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the audit committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the audit committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
PwC also provide secondees to support the Groups internal audit function.
In order to preserve auditor objectivity, those individuals seconded play no part in the Groups external audit team.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the audit committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 35 Remuneration committee David Dunn Chairman Antony Beevor resigned 22 December 2004 Michael Buzzacott appointed 27 September 2004 Michael Ward The remuneration committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive normally attends its meetings.
The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages 27 to 32.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report on the directors remuneration.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
The committee met on four occasions in 2004.
A self evaluation of the effectiveness of the committee was undertaken with no significant issues revealed.
Nomination committee Antony Beevor Chairman Michael Buzzacott appointed 27 September 2004 David Dunn Mike Humphrey appointed 27 September 2004 Michael Ward The nomination committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis.
During the year the committee met on three occasions: to consider the appointment of Michael Buzzacott as an additional non-executive director and to undertake a general review of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The committee is satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board is appropriate.
New terms of reference were adopted in September 2004 and a copy is posted on the Companys website.
All the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for performance of their duties.
Succession plans were reviewed and a process has commenced under the chairmanship of Michael Ward to identify a successor to Antony Beevor as Chairman of the Company.
A job specification, including an assessment of the time commitment expected, has been prepared.
In that respect, as in the case of the appointment of Michael Buzzacott, the external search consultancy, Spencer Stuart, has been engaged to identify candidates.
Antony Beevors term of office has been extended to 30 April 2006 or until a new appointment is made if earlier.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently as appropriate, taking into account existing experience, qualifications and skill sets.
Risk management committee Barbara Richmond Chairman Roy Ainger Keith Layden Graham Myers Kevin Nutbrown The risk management committee evaluates, proposes policies on and monitors processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Membership of the committee rotates annually.
With effect from 1 January 2005 Keith Layden replaced David Barraclough.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 36 Corporate governance Routine business committee The routine business committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the executive committee.
Non-executive directors Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations and by site visits.
No non-executive director nor the Chairman: has been an employee of the Company or Group has, or has had a material business relationship with the Group received, or receives remuneration other than a directors fee or share options: or is a member of the group pension scheme has close family or business ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or senior employees holds cross directorship or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies represents a significant shareholder has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 22 and 23.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
Board and committee evaluation During the year a process of self-evaluation has been conducted.
This process was organised round a questionnaire used to assess the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees.
Minor shortcomings were identified and addressed including an improved process for succession planning.
Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private investors.
It is normal practice for all members of the Board to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
Major shareholders have been advised that the Chairman and senior independent director are available for personal meetings and discussion with major shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
The level of proxies lodged on each AGM resolution and the numbers for, against and withheld for each resolution are declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing no poll has been called for.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 37 Internal control The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In order to discharge this responsibility the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures for: capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework monitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment and review of all business risks under the direction of the risk management committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves: reports from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible, and a report from the Group Financial Controller concerning the operation of the system as a whole reports from the Group Financial Controller on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
The internal audit work is carried out by both our own employees and personnel seconded from PwC who report through the Group Financial Controller to the audit committee reports from the external auditors.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern The financial statements, which appear on pages 40 to 66, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates how the Company has complied with the Code.
The one material exception is that, in addition to a notice period of six months, the service contracts of the executive directors provide for pre-determined compensation equivalent to eighteen months remuneration on termination without just cause.
The level of compensation on termination was determined when the notice period for directors service contracts was reduced from three years to six months without any payment.
The directors intend to introduce one years compensation on termination for new appointees to the Board 2003 FRC Combined Code, Schedule B, Item 1.6.
In addition, in order to comply with the Code requirement for the audit and remuneration committees to comprise a minimum of three non-executive directors, A R Beevor continued to serve as a member of such committees for the greater part of the year.
Mr Beevor, though fulfilling the criteria for independence, is deemed, as Chairman of the Company, not to be an independent director.
Following the appointment of M C Buzzacott and after a short hand over period, Mr Beevor resigned as a member of the audit and remuneration committees on 22 December 2004 2003 FRC Combined Code, Schedule B, Item 2.1 and Schedule C, Item 3.1.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 38 Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on page 39, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 40 to 66 inclusive, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, applied in a consistent manner and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board J R Ainger Secretary 23 February 2005 38 Corporate governance
