Corporate governance Statement of compliance The number of non-executive directors The Company supports the principles of excluding the Chairman did not until 16 June 2004 corporate governance contained in the Combined represent at least half the Board.
Mr David Tucker Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to was appointed the Senior Independent Director on the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Mr Goodridge has been the director The Board is accountable to the Companys responsible for health and safety within the Company.
The Company The directors possess diverse business experience in has, since listing in March 2004, complied with the spheres complementary to CSRs activities, as well as majority of the provisions of the Combined Code other sectors.
Biographies of the directors are shown Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best on pages 24 and 25.
Mr Brett Gladden was appointed Practice.
The statements below describe how the Company Secretary effective 20 September 2004.
Company has applied the principles identified in the The following directors resigned during Combined Code and areas where the Company is January 2004, prior to the Companys flotation on presently working towards compliance.
Dr Hermann Hauser 21 January, Dr Paul Auton 28 January, The Board Mr Anton Arts, Dr Philip ODonovan, Mr Laurence The Board meets regularly during the year Garrett and Mr Stuart Paterson each on 30 January.
as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time On 31 March 2005, Mr Mike Shone will stand down critical business needs.
The Board is responsible as a director.
to shareholders for the effective and proper In accordance with the provisions of the management and control of the Company and has a Combined Code, consideration has been given to formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
the independence of all the non-executive directors.
Its primary roles are to determine and review Company The Board considers all the non-executive directors strategy and policy, consider acquisitions and to be independent.
disposals, assess requests for major capital Given the period for which the Board as a team expenditure and give consideration to all other has been established, a formal process of performance significant financial matters.
This process is evaluation has not been implemented.
The Chairman undertaken following discussions in conjunction has however held regular meetings with all the directors with senior executive management who in turn are individually.
In addition, prior to the year end the responsible for day to day conduct of the Groups Chairman held a meeting of the non-executive operations and for reporting to the Board on the directors to discuss the performance of the executive progress being made in meeting the objectives.
directors and the Board as a whole.
A more formal The Board met ten times during the year and the process of evaluation will be considered during 2005. attendance of each of the directors is shown on In accordance with the Companys articles of page 23. association, all directors are required to retire and Following the Companys listing in March submit themselves for re-election at least once every 2004, the membership of the Board has been under three years.
It is policy of the Board that non-executive regular review, with the continued recruitment of nondirectors are appointed for an initial term of three executive directors.
As at 31 December 2004, the years, following which it will be reviewed and as Board comprised nine members being the Chairman, appropriate, extended for a further three year period.
Mr John Whybrow, four executive directors and four Non-executive directors should not generally serve for non-executive directors.
The four executive directors more than nine years.
who served throughout the year were Mr John On appointment, all directors are advised that Hodgson, Chief Executive Officer: Mr Paul Goodridge, they have access to the advice and services of the Finance Director: Mr James Collier, Chief Technical Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are Officer and Mr Glenn Collinson, Sales Director.
entitled to seek independent professional advice in During the year the Board appointed three nonthe furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the executive directors, Mr David Tucker, effective Companys expense.
23 January 2004, Mr Ron Mackintosh, effective 5 May 2004 and Mr John Scarisbrick, effective 16 June 2004.
Mr Mike Shone, who had served the Company as Chairman prior to the Companys full listing, agreed to continue as a non-executive director for a further year to 31 March 2005.
20 Changing the way the world connects Communications with shareholders Audit Committee Principally via the executive directors, the Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of Committee, and was appointed on 23 January 2004. objectives with its institutional shareholders through Prior to his appointment, Mr Mike Shone acted as regular meetings and presentations following Chairman.
Each member of the Committee brings announcements of each quarters results.
The Senior relevant financial experience from senior executive Independent Director, Mr David Tucker, is available and non-executive positions.
The experience and to meet institutional shareholders should there be expertise of the members of the Committee are unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
Although the non-executive directors have not yet The Committee met four times during the year been able to meet the shareholders, their attendance and the attendance of its members is shown in the at the Annual General Meeting is required.
The Committee invites the Chief information is also available on the Companys website, Executive Officer, the Finance Director and senior www.
representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being Committees of the Board considered.
In addition, the Committee has the right The Board has three committees, Remuneration, to invite any other employees to attend meetings Nomination and Audit, whose members comprise nonwhere this is considered appropriate.
In accordance with the Combined The Committee is responsible for the Code, the duties of the committees are set out in development, implementation and monitoring of the formal terms of reference.
These are available from Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing the Company Secretary and can be found on the the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
Membership The Committee recommends the appointment and of the committees is shown on pages 24 and 25. re-appointment of the Companys external auditors The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each and considers the scope of their audit work and the of the committees.
cost effectiveness of their work.
The Committee is aware of the audit and non-audit services which have Remuneration Committee been provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP during 2004.
Mr John Whybrow is the Chairman of the A significant proportion of the non-audit services Remuneration Committee.
The principal function of related to non-recurring work in connection with the the Committee is to establish and review the terms and preparation and publication of the Companys listing conditions for the executive directors, and the overall particulars prior to flotation in March 2004.
They also policy framework for the remuneration of other senior advised on tax matters which was considered to be executives and the Group as a whole.
The Committee appropriate, given their in depth knowledge of the met three times during the year and the attendance affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The of its members is shown in the table on page 23.
Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this The report to shareholders on how directors are work, Deloitte & Touche LLP have retained objectivity remunerated, together with details of individual and independence during the year.
directors remuneration are shown on pages 30 to 34.
In relation to the appointment of external At the time of his appointment as a non-executive auditors and in order to safeguard auditor director, Mr Whybrow agreed to chair the Remuneration independence and objectivity, the Committee has a Committee given his experience in this role in other policy of permitted services which details the services listed companies.
Reflecting the principles of the that can be provided by the Companys auditors and Combined Code, it is expected that Mr Whybrow will those services which require specific approval by the stand down as Chairman of the Committee during 2005.
The policy also details services that the Companys auditors are not permitted to provide.
The Nomination Committee policy has been complied with throughout the year.
Mr John Whybrow is the Chairman of the The Committee reviews, where practicable, all Nomination Committee.
The Committee reviews the proposed announcements to be made by the Company composition of the Board, particularly in relation to to the extent they contain financial information.
The the diversity of skills, experience, age and term of Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and the Groups internal control systems, accounting non-executive directors have the necessary skills and policies and practices, risk management procedures attributes for the future success of the Group.
The and compliance controls as well as the statement on Committee retains external search consultants as internal controls before they are agreed by the Board appropriate and during 2004 engaged Egon Zehnder for each years annual report.
to assist in the appointment of non-executive directors.
During 2004, the Committee met five times, as part of the formal business of the Board, to discuss the appointments of non-executive directors.
This ensured that the views of the executive directors were taken into consideration.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 21 Corporate governance The Chairman of the Committee attends the Controlling risk continued Companys Annual General Meeting to respond to any The Company has policies which address a shareholder questions that might be raised concerning number of key business risks, including financial, the Committees activities.
treasury and health and safety.
The policies are made available to relevant employees through policy Internal control manuals, an intranet site and also via employee Philosophy and policy briefings on specific topics as appropriate.
The The objective of the directors and senior Company also has a formal whistle blowing policy management is to safeguard and increase the value which has been communicated to all employees and of the business and assets of the Company.
Part of which provides information on the process to follow in this objective requires the development of relevant the event any employee feels it appropriate to make a policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure disclosure.
The Group carries out a programme of proper management of the Companys resources and management self-assessments over the status of key the identification of risks which might serve to business risks through formal reviews which consider undermine them.
the risks faced by the business, how these might be The Board is ultimately responsible for the mitigated and who within the Company is responsible Companys system of internal control and for reviewing for implementing agreed actions.
The systems and processes external advisers are appointed in order to support established by the Board are designed to manage, this process.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The actions arising from these assessments The Board has delegated responsibility for the are consolidated and during 2004 the results were review of practices and procedures to the Audit reported to the Audit Committee for each committee Committee.
The Companys senior management, in meeting.
The Committee assesses the findings and conjunction with external advisers are responsible proposed actions for addressing residual risks and also for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability advises on areas for further attention.
of current systems on which they report to the Committee.
Internal financial controls The Committee reviews the findings to ensure The Company has a comprehensive system the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes for regular monitoring and reporting of financial implemented by senior management.
This includes performance and assessing the adequacy of the discussions with senior management of the Company Groups systems of internal controls.
A detailed and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
budget is prepared by management and thereafter is These findings are in turn discussed by the full Board.
reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The The Board is satisfied that this process accords with budget and other targets are regularly updated via a the internal control guidance for directors set out in rolling forecasting process and regular business review the ICAEW Turnbull Report and that through its meetings are also held involving senior management interface with management, the Board is aware of the worldwide, at which the Companys overall performance major risks facing the Company and the steps taken is assessed.
The results of these reviews are in turn by the Company where possible to mitigate such risks.
reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
Managing risks These processes are supported by discreet A summary of the structures and processes in reviews conducted by external advisers, as determined place to identify and manage risks across the Group by the Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
During 2004, this included a review of the Companys treasury and foreign exchange policies conducted by Risk profiling  LLP, the results of which There is an ongoing process to identify and were considered and approved by the Committee evaluate risks faced by the Company, through the and the Board.
conduct of regular meetings by the Companys senior management.
Findings are reported to the Committee together with recommended actions and a timetable for implementation.
A list of prioritised risks is refreshed on a quarterly basis to reflect changes to the business.
The schedule, along with other management information, is used to develop an overall assurance plan for the Company.
22 Changing the way the world connects During the year the Committee considered Annual General Meeting resolutions whether there was a requirement for an internal audit The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual function.
Based on the size of the Company and General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2005, together present practices concerning the management of key with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice aspects of the business, the Committee is satisfied of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent that an internal audit function is not presently to all registered shareholders.
This matter will be kept under regular review.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the By order of the Board effectiveness of the system on internal controls for Brett Gladden the year ended 31 December 2004.
Secretary 24 March 2005 Attendance at meetings The table below shows the attendance of each of the directors at meetings of the Board and its committees held during the year.
A comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for each director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board, in conjunction, where appropriate, with the recommendations of its committees and advice from external consultants and executive management.
In addition, during those months when a Board meeting is not scheduled, a pack of management reports, including financial analysis is sent to each of the directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 10 4 3 5 J S Hodgson 10 J D Y Collier 10 G Collinson 9 P G G Goodridge 10 J W Whybrow 10 3 3 5 1 D Tucker 83 35 M L Shone 9 4 34 2 R Mackintosh 62 24 3 J Scarisbrick 5 23 4 Dr J P Auton 11 5 A Arts 1 7 L Garrett 1 6 Dr H Hauser 11 7 Dr P L ODonovan 1 7 S Paterson 1 Chairman from 2 March 2004 Chairman from 23 January 2004 Chairman until 2 March 2004 Chairman until 23 January 2004 1 Appointed to the Board 23 January 2004 2 Appointed to the Board 5 May 2004 3 Appointed to the Board 16 June 2004 4 Stepped down from the Board 28 January 2004.
Mr Auton had attended the Board meeting held prior to that date 5 Stepped down from the Board and Audit Committee on 30 January 2004.
Mr Arts had attended the Board and Audit Committee meetings held prior to that date 6 Stepped down from the Board and Audit Committee on 21 January 2004.
Dr Hauser had attended the Board and Audit committee meetings held prior to that date 7 Stepped down from the Board on 30 January 2004.
They had attended the one Board meeting held prior to that date
