20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance The review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive The Board directors by Sir Derek Higgs and a review of the responsibilities The Board consists of the non-executive Chairman, four of audit committees by Sir Robert Smith led to the publication in executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board July 2003 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate considers all of the non-executive directors including the Governance 2003 Combined Code by the Financial Chairman to be independent.
The Board met eight times during Reporting Council.
the year and all directors were in attendance with the exception of Mr P S Lewis who was absent abroad on two occasions but Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the was available for consultation by telephone during these Company is required to comply with the 2003 Combined Code, meetings.
All members of Board Committees were in attendance from 1 April 2004 and to report on its compliance in the 2005 at all meetings of the relevant commitees.
The Board reserves a Annual Report and Accounts.
Following publication of the 2003 formal schedule of matters for its approval which includes Combined Code the Board has reviewed its corporate governance strategy and management, structure and capital, financial procedures and practices and confirms that it complies with the reporting and controls, Board appointments and commitees, majority of the 2003 Combined Code provisions.
remuneration and corporate governance compliance.
Shareholders may request a copy of the schedule from the The Board will continue to review and develop its corporate Company Secretary.
Terms of reference for the Board governance practices during the year to ensure compliance Committees are also available from the Company Secretary.
All during the year ending March 2005 and has established a directors have access to external advice at the expense of the Corporate Governance Working Group comprising the Chairman, Company.
Mr P S Lewis acts as the Companys senior nonChief Executive and the Company Secretary.
The Board has executive director.
Any shareholder who has a concern about the recently approved the initial measures described below: affairs of the Company should contact, in the first instance, the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Mr P S Lewis.
The Board The Chairman will hold meetings at least annually with the non-executive directors without the The Audit Committee executive directors being present.
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr P S Lewis.
The Committee met twice Performance Evaluation the Chairman will appraise the during the year to review the Companys interim and annual performance of the Board and the individual directors in financial statements before submission to the Board for its accordance with agreed Board and Board Member approval, to review the adequacy of the Groups accounting Performance Evaluation Criteria.
As part of this process the systems and controls, including reports from Group internal Chairman will request each Board member to complete a audit, and to monitor the relationship with the external auditors, self-assessment questionnaire.
The results of this review will considering their independence and advising the Board on be presented by the Chairman in an Annual Performance auditors fees.
It also considers the Groups compliance with the Report.
The executive directors will also be appraised by the Combined Code.
Chief Executive in respect of their executive duties.
The Board Committees will be appraised in accordance with The Nomination Committee their terms of reference.
The Chairmans performance will be The Nomination Committee comprises two non-executive appraised annually by the senior non-executive director with directors and the non-executive Chairman and is chaired by Mr input from other Board Members.
It met once during the year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all director Information and Professional Development regular training appointments.
sessions, led by external consultants, will be provided on appropriate subjects to ensure that directors are regularly The Remuneration Committee updated and refresh their industry knowledge and The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-executive awareness of corporate responsibilities.
directors and the non-executive Chairman and is chaired by Mr G E Grimstone.
The Committee met twice during the year Relations with Shareholders in addition to the current regular and its responsibilities are to determine, within remuneration updates on investor relations, one of the Companys brokers principles agreed with the Board, the salaries, bonuses and will attend a Board meeting, at least annually, to update the pension rights of the executive directors.
Remuneration is Board on investor relations and other related issues.
designed to be set at a level appropriate to the Companys circumstances having regard to market information provided by The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the external consultants.
The Board itself determines the existing Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is remuneration of non-executive directors.
applicable for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Companys corporate governance procedures have met the requirements of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the year.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 21 Relations with shareholders The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
of internal control including that of Yoplait Dairy Crest which is Major announcements are made available to shareholders designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to and the general public through the London Stock Exchange achieve the Groups strategic objectives and to provide and through the Dairy Crest Group plc website reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material www.
There is regular dialogue with institutional misstatement or loss.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control, to identify, evaluate and manage the risks faced by the Group.
This process, which includes the consideration of a schedule identifying and evaluating the Groups significant risks and related controls has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The main elements of the process applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the systems of internal control include: Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written presentations to maintain effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
Financial reporting there is an annual budget approved by the Board and monthly financial reporting to the Board.
The monthly financial information includes trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by business unit with comparison against prior year and budget.
Control environment the identification and mitigation of business unit risks is the responsibility of the executive directors in conjunction with the senior management of each business.
Each business unit operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities and conforms to group policies and procedures.
On a quarterly basis, each business unit is required to complete a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business unit management.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from Group internal audit summarising audit issues noted and corrective action plans as well as reports from the external auditors on the conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
