CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Messrs Hemingway, Gray, and Gillespie are not regarded by the governance.
This statement describes how the Board has applied Board as independent in terms of the Code because they have the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code advised the Company over many years: nor is Mr Park due to the Code issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate his recent Group responsibilities.
The Board believes that these Governance.
The Code is part of the listing rules of the Financial non-executive Directors have invaluable experience of the Services Authority.
It applied to the Company throughout the year.
Company, its business and its staff.
The Board has not, as required by the Code, identified a senior independent nonIn July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council revised the Code executive Director since it believes that to identify such an the Revised Code.
The Revised Code is not applicable to individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, as the Board the Company in the year under review, but the Company has is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
continued the process of further formalising its procedures to enable the Board to report, as required, under it in the year The Companys Articles of Association require all Directors to beginning 4th October, 2004. submit themselves for the re-election at least once every three years.
The Articles require that a Director appointed by the Board The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages must stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Under 33 to 44 set out how the Company has applied the principles laid the Companies Act, a Director is also required to stand for re-election down by the Code.
They also explain procedural changes that when he first reaches the age of 70.
The Board has chosen not to have been made in response to the Revised Code.
The Company adopt the additional provision in the Revised Code that non-executive has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code, Directors who have served for more than nine years should be except where stated below or in the Remuneration Report.
subject to annual re-election since the existing practice, which complies with Company law and with the Articles, works well.
The Board The membership of the Board and individual attendance by The Board meets at least on a quarterly basis and at such other Directors in the 2003 04 financial year is set out below: times as are necessary.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board which is published on the Corporate Governance section of the Companys web site at www.
Number of Number of meetings held meetings attended In October, 2004, the Board reviewed its performance and The Viscount Rothermere 5 5 agreed to establish an internal procedure to enable a formal and C J F Sinclair 5 5 rigorous evaluation of its individual Directors to be carried out J P Williams 5 5 and reported upon in next years Annual Report.
The Board also reviewed the schedule of matters reserved for it.
D M M Dutton 5 5 P M Dacre 5 5 Procedures are established to ensure that the Board receives timely and appropriate information both for its meetings and P M Fallon 5 5 regularly between meetings.
J G Hemingway 5 5 S M Gray 5 5 The Board has established Nominations, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Committees with mandates to deal with specific I G Park 5 5 aspects of its business.
The remits of these committees are F P Lowy 5 2 also published on the Corporate Governance section of the Companys web site.
Details of the membership of these K Schwab 5 2 committees are given on page 28.
Each committee reports to C W Dunstone 5 4 the Board at every regular meeting.
In October, 2004, the Board F P Balsemo 5 4 carried out a review of the performance of its committees and concluded that they had been effective in the year.
T S Gillespie 3 2 D J Verey 3 3 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are offered such training as is considered Sir Patrick Sergeant 2 2 necessary, both on appointment and at any subsequent time.
N H Hakkarainen 2 2 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
The Board met five times during the year, four of which were regular meetings.
Five Directors were unable to attend a special Nominations Committee meeting, held at short notice in June.
The Nominations Committee, which was established as a separate committee in May 2003, met three times during the Following the changes made on 1st December, 2004, the Board year and all meetings were attended by all serving Directors.
comprises seven executive Directors, including the Chairman The members of the Committee are the Viscount Rothermere, and Chief Executive, and eight non-executive Directors.
its chairman, Mr Hemingway and Mr Balsemo.
Mr Balsemo The Board believes that four non-executive Directors may be was appointed in November 2003, replacing Mr Gray and considered to be independent in the sense used in the Code, Mr Hakkarainen.
The Deputy Finance Director, Mr Perry, acts namely Messrs Lowy, Dunstone, Balsemo and Verey.
This as secretary to the Committee.
represents half of the non-executive Directors, rather than a majority as recommended by the Code.
Although Mr Lowy has During the year the Committee nominated Mr Gillespie and been a non-executive Director for longer than nine years, he Mr Verey as non-executive Directors.
These Directors and others has continued to demonstrate his independence in terms of were identified as suitable candidates, and neither external character and judgement.
advice nor advertising was required in these instances.
30 Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued The Committee continues to review succession planning for both direct link to the Audit Committee.
The Groups Risk Manager, executive and non-executive Directors.
It has also assessed the Mr Brett, acts as secretary to the Committee.
It met three times most appropriate method of evaluating Directors performance.
during the year under review.
Relations with shareholders The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by its institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has included central functions, on a half-yearly basis.
These reports identify meetings in London, Scotland, Ireland, Continental Europe and business risks for the Group as a whole and within the divisions the U. S. Partly to assist private shareholders, the Company posts and assess the controls in place to manage those risks.
The all announcements and general presentations given to analysts Committee operates a rotational programme of presentations and institutions on its corporate web site at www.
by the divisions on specific risk management issues, as well as Shareholders and others interested in the Group are encouraged identifying topics for consideration across the Group.
An example to use the site and to email questions which they might have.
of this is Corporate Social Responsibility on which a report was Questions to particular Directors should be addressed through given in September.
Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General each of the main divisions through attendance at divisional board Meeting, of which twenty working days notice is given.
The Committee reports to the Board at each of its meetings on the results of these processes to enable the Board to Internal controls and management of risk determine the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives In the last year, the specific risk items addressed by the Risk and profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities Committee, which are common to all subsidiaries, were the and uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
Control of Asbestos Regulations 2002, Disability Discrimination The risk management process consists of the identification, Act 1995, health and safety risks relating to the use of mobile evaluation and control of risks, which could threaten the phones and business continuity.
Other risks were also addressed achievement of the Groups strategic, operational and financial by the Committee on an individual divisional basis, such as objectives, as well as the active management of opportunities.
The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions Audit Committee described at the front of the Annual Report having considerable The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since autonomy as regards its operation and establishment of 1989, comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray its control systems.
Overseeing the divisional structure is a central chairman, Hemingway, Park and Verey.
Mr Verey joined the management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are Committee in February.
In September Mr Dunstone resigned undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying, insurance, from the Committee due to his external commitments so treasury, tax and pensions.
that only Mr Verey is considered to be independent in the sense used by the Code.
Nevertheless the Board believes that the The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Committee operates independently.
Members qualifications are Groups system of internal control.
This system is designed to set out in their biographies on page 28.
The Board is satisfied provide reasonable assurance of the safeguarding of assets that Mr Gray, formerly senior partner of a firm of chartered and shareholders investment and the reliability of financial accountants, has recent and relevant financial experience.
Any such system can, however, provide only Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is secretary to the Committee.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of these matters.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness The Audit Committee met four times during the year and all of the Groups system of internal control for the period up to meetings were attended by all serving Directors, except that the date of the approval of the Accounts.
Mr Dunstone was unable to attend two of them.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the Last year, the Committee reported that it had made a number benefits and risks of investment opportunities and financing of procedural changes in response to the Smith Guidance to proposals to an executive committee, the Finance Committee.
the revised Combined Code and had devised a policy on Above certain defined levels, however, the Board must approve whistle blowing.
Procedures were established to monitor the programmes relating to acquisition and divestment proposals independence of the external auditors.
This has been extended to and capital expenditure.
In 2000, the Board established a process include a policy on employment of former audit principals.
There for the management of significant risks across the Group by is also a policy on the provision of non-audit services with which means of a Risk Committee which accords with the guidance the Groups head office and each division complies.
The choice of provided by the Code.
firm is normally determined on the basis of professional expertise and competitiveness.
The Group may engage the external auditors Risk Committee to perform audit-related work, accountancy advice and corporate Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal tax services.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on control and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, their merits and are put out to tender where the amounts in the Risk Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on question are significant.
The external auditors are excluded from risk management issues and processes.
The Risk Committee is the following areas: where they are auditing their own work: where chaired by Mr Sinclair, the Chief Executive.
Its other members a mutuality of interest is created: or where the external auditor are the Viscount Rothermere, Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton would be put in the role of advocate for the Company.
and the legal director of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Mr Gray provides a non-executive perspective to the review of risk Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte in management processes within the Group, as well as providing a 2004 amounted to 3.3 million, compared to 1.0 million the previous year.
The Audit Committee regards this as an unusually 31 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
