Corporate governance Combined Code The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles of the Combined Code and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Combined Code and believes it complies with the 1998 Combined Code the Combined Code.
The Board also considers that it complies with the main principles of the 2003 revised Combined Code.
Directors The Board consists of a Chairman and a Chief Executive plus one further Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors receive sufficient information on financial, business and corporate matters to enable them to participate in Board decisions.
The Chief Executives primary role is the running of the Companys businesses and the development and implementation of strategy.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a directors judgement.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, the details of their respective appointments, are as set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 29 and 30.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with Articles 107 and 108 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the code by providing that all directors are required to submit themselves for re-appointment once every three years.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors would meet in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns which the Chairman has failed to resolve, or if there were any issues concerning his performance or terms of appointment.
The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year and more as required.
It has met on five scheduled occasions between July 2003 and 31 January 2004.
All members attended the meetings with the exception of Peter Wilson who was not present on 16 September and 19 November and Michel Brossard who could not attend on 19 November.
The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in formal terms of reference.
These are reviewed regularly, stating the items specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance through monthly reports and management accounts.
The process for approving acquisitions divestments is a matter reserved for the Board, although delegates to the Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified level of authority.
There are also authority levels covering capital expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Other matters reserved to the Board include: Overview of control, audit and risk management.
The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Senior management succession plans and the overall direction of management development.
Overview of corporate social responsibility.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which directors, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice and services.
The Directors receive training as part of their induction on the duties and responsibilities of being directors of a publicly limited company.
Since the demerger, there has been no formal process covering any evaluation of the Boards performance.
However, such a process will be introduced during the course of the new financial year.
20 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees: a Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The Committee has at least one member possessing recent and relevant financial experience.
It can be seen from the Directors biographical details, appearing on page16, that the members of the Audit Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
The Audit Committee will normally meet four times a year and has met three times, since the Demerger in July 2003.
All members of the Audit Committee attended all meetings.
Both the external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management are normally present at the meetings and it is common practice for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management present.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management regularly meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being present.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined Code, i. e. : To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained.
To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance with all accounting policies and standards.
To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
To review the Companys financial control and risk management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken to monitor and control them.
To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
To monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional and regulatory requirements.
To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures.
To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner: At its meetings in March and September, the focus falls on a review of the Preliminary Announcement Annual Report and Financial Statements, and the Interim Announcement respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgmental issues requiring its attention.
A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management is presented at each of the four meetings, highlighting any significant risk and control issues.
At the March meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submits the departments audit plans for the coming year.
The external auditors present their annual audit plan at the September meeting.
At this meeting there is also a detailed review of the management letter covering the auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year.
From time to time, Group companies are required to make presentations to the Audit Committee on the subject of risk, its identification, management and control.
The Audit Committee is routinely presented with information on material litigation involving Group companies.
The Audit Committee reviews all financial statements prior to their publication.
One of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
In assessing whether to recommend the auditors for re-appointment, the Committee takes a number of factors into account.
These include: The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business and industry.
The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the Group and their ability to coordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Audit Committee has established safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Audit Committee on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice.
21 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 b Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
Its responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service of the executive directors are appropriate and that they are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of awards under the Groups employee share schemes is on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
Between July 2003 and 31 January 2004, the Committee met on four occasions and all members of the Remuneration Committee attended.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to directors remuneration is described in the Report on Directors Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 24 to 30. c Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands Chairman, Jean-Nol Labroue, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Andrew Robb.
The Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
Setting policy for granting of service agreements including mitigation policy.
The Nomination Committee has met once in the year and all members attended.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim Reports and at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to enter a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
The Board is also keen to have an independent insight into the views of major investors and commissions its external investor relations adviser to carry out interview-based research.
A detailed report is then prepared and its findings are presented to the Board.
Any investor with concerns should take these to the Chairman and, if unresolved, to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman attends the Companys presentations on the full year and half year results with investors.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting is by way of a show of hands unless a poll is validly called.
Following each vote on a show of hands, the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the number of proxy votes for and against the resolution is announced Accountability and audit It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 31, includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a review has taken place during the year.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
22 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 Following the publication of guidance for directors on internal control in both the new Combined Code and the report of the Turnbull Committee, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process has been in place since the demerger in July 2003 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
The operating companies make presentations on risk to their Audit Committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board on the risks facing the businesses.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and re-forecasting cycles.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over these risks bi-annually.
This includes risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Control environment and control activities: The Group consists of a number of major operating companies each with its own management and control structures.
The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include internal controls and other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments.
The operating companies work within a framework of policies and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
They cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and physical and data security.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control including a monthly performance review for each major business and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Monitoring: A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group including control self-assessment, management confirmation of compliance with standards and internal audit reviews.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include: Reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems focusing on those areas of greatest financial risk to the Group.
Routine and cyclical reviews of business areas.
Follow-up procedures to ensure there is an appropriate response to changes in risks and controls and timely implementation of audit recommendations.
Compliance statement The Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period.
Throughout the period to 31 January 2004 the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
