CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company recognises the importance The Board has a schedule of matters reserved of the committee members.
Feedback was of, and is committed to, high standards for its decision which has been reviewed and reviewed at a meeting of the full Board.
In June 1998 updated during the year.
Matters reserved to The Chairman also led a review of the the Combined Code was published which the Board for decision include: individual performance of each of the embraces the work of the earlier Cadbury, directors other than himself.
The review Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
This strategy and objectives: covered the effectiveness of each directors statement, together with the Directors annual budgets: contribution and commitment to the Remuneration Report set out on pages 26 dividends: Company.
Feedback was provided to to 30, describes how the Company has acquisitions and disposal of businesses: individual directors and action points applied the principles of good governance expenditure over certain defined limits: addressed.
Alan Jackson, the senior as set out in the Combined Code.
A financial results: independent Non-executive Director, revised version of the Combined Code the appointments to the Board.
undertook a performance evaluation of the Revised Code was published in July 2003 Chairman taking into account the views of following the Higgs report and applies The Board is collectively responsible for the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
to the Company for the financial year the success of the Company and normally commencing 27 September 2004. meets at least every two months with The Company Secretary is responsible further meetings arranged as necessary.
The for ensuring that Board processes and The Company is not required to report attendance record of individual directors at procedures are appropriately followed compliance with the Revised Code until the Board meetings is detailed below.
and support effective decision making.
publication of the Annual Report for the All Directors have access to the Company financial year ending 25 September 2005.
of meetings in the year 13 Secretarys advice and services and there However, the Board believes that, without is also a formal procedure for Directors to Lord Daresbury 13 ignoring the existing code, it will be more obtain independent professional advice Carl Leaver 13 helpful to focus in this Annual Report on in the course of their duties, if necessary, the extent of the Companys current level of Debbie Hewitt 12 at the Companys expense.
An induction compliance with the more stringent Revised programme is arranged for all new Directors.
This section of the Annual Report This covers the major trading activities Steve Morgan 11 therefore provides disclosures in accordance of the Company as well as the roles and Roger Stubbs 13 with and discusses in detail the extent of responsibilities of Directors generally.
compliance against the Revised Code.
Any additional training requirements are Nigel Walmsley 13 identified as part of the Boards annual 1 Paul Dermody Board structure and processes evaluation of performance and training is 1 The Board currently consists of a NonRetired 13 October 2003 arranged as required.
executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and four Non-executive The Non-executive Chairman and Steve During the year there were four meetings Directors, with Alan Jackson as the senior Morgan both have interests in substantial of the Audit Committee.
Alan Jackson and Non-executive Director.
Biographies of share holdings in the Company 4.62% and Nigel Walmsley attended all of the meetings all the Directors, together with details of 13.52% respectively at 26 September 2004. and Debbie Hewitt attended three of the their committee memberships, are set out meetings.
All members of the Remuneration on pages 18 and 19.
All members of the With the exception of Alan Jackson and Committee attended the two Remuneration Board submit themselves for re-election at Lord Daresbury all of the Non-executive Committee meetings.
There were no least every three years.
Lord Daresbury and Directors have been appointed since March meetings of the Nomination Committee.
Steve Morgan retire by rotation and submit 2000.
Alan Jackson has been a Director themselves for re-election this year.
Alan of the company since 1993 and Lord In advance of each meeting all Directors Jackson has served for more than nine years Daresbury since 1984.
The Non-executive are provided with and have full and timely as a Non-executive Director and therefore Directors come from diverse business access to information in relation to the also submits himself for re-election.
backgrounds and each has unique expertise matters to be discussed.
The Directors are covering property, communications, human therefore able to make informed decisions The roles of the Chairman and Chief resources, finance and the leisure industry.
on corporate and business issues under Executive are separate.
The Non-executive This combination of skills and expertise consideration.
Chairman is responsible for the effective significantly enhances the judgement and operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive overall performance of the Board.
During the year the Board undertook an has overall responsibility for managing evaluation of its performance including the Company, which includes strategy and The Board requires that all Non-executive that of its committees.
During the year, the Board Directors be free from any relationship with considered the operation of the Board updated and clearly documented the the executive management that could be and its committees, compliance with its division of the roles between the Chairman considered to hinder their independent corporate governance obligations and the and Chief Executive.
In the Boards view all Nonoperation and content of its meetings.
executive Directors meet this requirement.
The Chairman individually consulted with each member of the Board and the Board committee chairmen consulted with each CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Alan Jackson has been a Director of the The Audit Committee reviews the annual Newly appointed Directors are subject to Company since 1993 and, in accordance financial statements of the Company election by shareholders at the Annual with best practice, the Board has reviewed together with its accounting systems and General Meeting following appointment.
whether, in its opinion, he remains internal controls including the effectiveness Under the Companys Articles of Association independent.
As part of the Boards of its internal audit function.
The individuals all Directors must submit themselves for reevaluation of its effectiveness, it also responsible for the Companys internal election at least every three years.
reviewed whether Alan Jackson should, on audit function have direct access to the the grounds of the length of his service, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Relations with shareholders be replaced.
The Board has concluded that Committee also reviews the appointment Communications with shareholders are given his industry experience, understanding of and terms of reference of the external high priority.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief the business and the level of commitment Auditors and monitors the level of nonExecutives Strategy Review, Operating and displayed to the Board are such that he audit services provided by the Auditors.
As Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 17 include provides just the sort of challenge expected part of the review it considers factors which a detailed review of the business and future of an independent Non-executive Director.
could impact upon their independence and developments of the Group.
There is regular The Board therefore considers Alan Jackson objectivity and has sought to minimise the dialogue with institutional shareholders, to be an independent Non-executive Director amount of non-audit work undertaken by including presentations after the Companys and this view was endorsed by shareholders the Auditors.
A breakdown of non-audit fees announcement of the half-year and yearwho re-elected him at the Annual General is provided in Note 2.
The scope of nonend results, and following any strategic Meeting this year.
audit work undertaken by the Companys activity.
Following such meetings, minutes are Auditors covered preparation of the Interim prepared and circulated to the whole Board The Board is seeking to appoint another Statement, a review of the Executive so that they are aware of shareholders views.
independent Non-executive Director to Directors and senior managers expenses, strengthen its independence.
A number of assistance with the defence to the partial The Board uses the Annual General Meeting candidates have so far been considered and takeover bid made by Guinness Peat Group as an important means of communication an appointment will be made in due course.
PLC and due diligence work on the aborted with private and institutional investors and Premier Lodge acquisition.
The Company encourages their participation.
The Chairman Save as previously mentioned, the NonSecretary acts as secretary to the Audit aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the executive Directors have no material or Committee.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination business relationships with the Company and Committees are available at Annual General each of the other Non-executive Directors are Remuneration Committee Meetings to answer questions.
Details of regarded as independent.
The Company has a Remuneration resolutions to be proposed at the Annual Committee under the chairmanship of General Meeting on 25 February 2005 can The Board has directed that the Groups Debbie Hewitt, which meets at least once be found in the Notice of Meeting.
code of conduct should be made available a year.
During the year the Committee to all employees on joining the Company.
undertook an evaluation of its performance To further improve communications with The code of conduct includes details of the including the operation and content of its shareholders, the Group has a website Groups whistle blowing procedure and this meetings.
Details of the members of the www.
co. uk dedicated to has been reviewed in the light of the Revised Committee and its remit are disclosed in the communication of corporate information Combined Code.
the Report on Directors Remuneration on such as: current and historical financial page 26 and are entered on the Companys reports, presentations and press releases, Audit Committee website.
together with a link to the current share The Company has an Audit Committee price.
The Group also offers its shareholders consisting of Non-executive Directors under Nomination Committee the option of receiving electronic versions the chairmanship of Nigel Walmsley.
The The Company has a Nomination Committee of shareholder communications, including members of the Audit Committee are under the chairmanship of Alan Jackson.
the annual and interim reports, terms of as disclosed on pages 18 and 19.
The The members of the Nomination Committee reference for the Audit, Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a are disclosed on pages 18 and 19.
Information year and its terms of reference have been Committee recommends to the Board regarding this service can be downloaded reviewed and follow those recommended the appointment of all Executive and directly from the corporate website.
Its decisions and Non-executive Directors.
The Committee proceedings are reported to the Board.
determines the terms of reference for new Internal control During the year the Committee undertook an appointments and uses external advisers The Board is responsible for the Groups evaluation of its performance including the to identify suitable candidates for any system of internal control and for reviewing operation and content of its meetings.
vacant directorships: each candidate is its effectiveness.
The system of internal then interviewed by all members of the control is designed to safeguard shareholders The external Auditors are invited to attend all Committee.
A shortlist is then prepared investment and the Companys assets by the Audit Committee meetings together with and further interviews then take place as managing the risks of not meeting business other Board members.
Part of each meeting appropriate.
The terms of reference for the objectives and is intended to provide of the Audit Committee is held between the Nomination Committee have been reviewed reasonable and not absolute assurance Non-executive Directors and the external in the light of the Revised Code and are against material misstatement or loss.
available on the Companys website.
24 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The principal elements of the Groups system The Group has a clearly defined of internal control and risk management, organisational structure which allows that comply with the internal control appropriate segregation of duty.
Employees guidance on the combined code and which have prescribed authority levels.
were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the The effectiveness of internal control systems Accounts, are as follows: are considered and monitored regularly and at least once a year by the Board of A strategic plan is prepared annually and Directors and the Audit Committee.
The approved by the Board: the plan covers the Directors confirm that they have reviewed period until 2010. the effectiveness of the internal control system in accordance with the above Following the approval of the strategic procedures.
plan, a detailed budget is prepared for the following financial year and is approved by Going concern the Board.
The Directors consider, after making enquiries, that the Company has adequate Actual results are reported monthly and resources to continue in operational compared to both budget, prior year and existence for the foreseeable future and, forecast results.
Operational performance accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt of the hotels is reviewed against external the going concern basis in the preparation of industry benchmarks.
All major risks identified and recorded in a risk management report are assessed and allocated to specific individuals as appropriate.
This report summarises all foreseen strategic, operational, financial, technical, social, ethical and environmental risks that could prevent the achievement of business objectives.
Action plans to mitigate the identified risks are in place.
The report is reviewed at each meeting of the Board of Directors.
A formal appraisal and approval process is operated for all items of capital expenditure.
Projects are required to demonstrate achievement of appropriate operational and financial criteria.
Projects in excess of 500,000 are referred to the Board for approval.
Key systems and controls are documented and, on a monthly basis, self-certification reports are signed off by heads of finance functions across the Group.
Internal audits are conducted in accordance with a rolling programme.
Each hotel or business unit is audited at least once each year, with further audits being conducted in accordance with perceived risk.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the major findings from both internal and external audits.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 25
