77 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management in directing and controlling the business.
They are pleased to report that the company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 1998 by the Hampel Committee and annexed to the Listing Rules by the Financial Services Authority Combined Code.
The Combined Code was substantially revised during the year, following the publication of the Higgs report and the Smith report on audit committees.
The board reviewed its corporate governance practices during the year in light of the new Code and US regulatory changes, and implemented a number of changes, which are disclosed below.
The new Code applies to Diageos financial year beginning on 1 July 2004 and accordingly the board will report on compliance with the new Code next year.
The way in which the principles of good governance are applied is described below.
Board of directors Diageos board consists of its chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer and eight non-executive directors, all of whom the board has determined are independent.
The board has determined that JK Oates is independent notwithstanding the fact that, when he retires from the board after the Annual General Meeting AGM on 20 October 2004, he will have served slightly more than nine years as a non-executive director.
This slight over-run results from the companys year end changing from 31 December to 30 June, causing the AGM to be held some five months later than when JK Oates was originally appointed to the Guinness PLC board in June 1995.
The non-executive directors are all experienced and influential individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
The senior non-executive director is RF Chase, deputy chairman of Tesco plc and former deputy chief executive of BP plc.
RF Chase will retire by rotation at this years AGM and will not seek a further term on the board.
On 1 September 2004, the board appointed Lord Hollick as senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 2 September 2004.
The biographical details of the directors, together with their committee memberships, are given in Directors and senior managementabove.
Diageo plcs articles of association provide that, at each AGM, one-third of the directors shall retire from office by rotation and are then eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
The number of directors, and the requirement of the companys articles in relation to rotation, result in each director standing for re-election not less frequently than every three years.
Any new director appointed by the board must be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
New directors receive orientation training in relation to the group and its business, for example in relation to its assurance processes, environmental policies and social responsibility policies and practices.
The directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments in the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
The board meets regularly during the year and, in addition, an annual strategy conference is held off-site with the full executive committee for two days, at which the groups strategy is reviewed in depth.
The board receives detailed financial information and regular presentations from executives on the business performance, in addition to items for decision and minutes of board committees in advance of each board meeting.
This enables the directors to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues under consideration.
When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board for decision to ensure that key policy and strategic decisions are made by the full board.
Otherwise, the board has delegated authority for day-to-day management of the groups affairs to the chief executive, PS Walsh, who is supported by the executive committee.
The biographical details of the executive committees members are given in Directors and senior managementabove.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of business conduct: business development, including major investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment or removal of directors: risk management: financial reporting and audit: corporate citizenship, ethics and the environment: and pensions.
The board undertakes formal evaluation of its own performance and the board committees assess their respective roles, performance and terms of reference and report accordingly to the board.
The board assesses the reviews of each committee.
Each directors performance is evaluated by the chairman based on input from all other directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the non-executive directors, led by the senior non-executive director, taking account of the views of the executive directors.
Following the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The board ensures that all directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through an independent survey of shareholder opinion which is reviewed at the annual strategy conference: and by making available analystsand brokersreports on the company.
In addition, the non-executive directors are invited to attend the meetings with analysts and investors following publication of the interim and final results.
During the year, six board meetings were held.
The meetings were fully attended, except that PA Walker was unable to attend one meeting and WS Shanahan was unable to attend two meetings.
Sir Robert Wilson attended both board meetings held before his retirement and both HT Stitzer and JR Symonds attended the board meeting held following their appointment.
Attendance at committee meetings below relates to the period when each director held office.
The non-executive directors meet independently of management, and also meet with the chairman independently of management, on a regular basis.
78 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report The chairman, Lord Blyth, is principally responsible for the effective operation and chairing of the board and for ensuring the information that it receives is sufficient to make informed judgements.
He also provides support to the chief executive, particularly in relation to external affairs.
He spends between two and three days each week on the companys affairs and, because of the closer relationship he has with the company as chairman, he is not considered to be an independent director.
Lord Blyths principal commitments outside Diageo are as a non-executive director of Anixter Inc and a vice chairman of Greenhill & Co, Inc.
There have been no changes to these commitments during the year.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board processes and procedures are appropriately followed and support effective decision-making and governance.
She is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.
She is also responsible for ensuring that new directors receive appropriate training and induction into Diageo.
All directors have access to the company secretarys advice and services and there is also a formal procedure for directors to obtain independent professional advice in the course of their duties, if necessary, at the companys expense.
Board committees The board has established several committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on www.
They are also available on request from the company secretary.
Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by JK Oates and consists of all the independent non-executive directors.
The chief financial officer, business risk director, compliance director and external auditor are normally invited to attend the meeting.
The audit committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems and of control over financial reporting: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the business risk function and reviewing the business risk programme: monitoring and reviewing the groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: and overseeing the companys relationship with the external auditor, including monitoring their independence.
For the purposes of the new Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the board has determined that JR Symonds may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert.
Subject to election by shareholders, it is proposed that Mr Symonds will succeed Mr Oates as chairman of the audit committee after the AGM.
Audit committee report The committee met five times during the year and reported its conclusions to the full board.
The meetings were fully attended, except that Lord Hollick, M Lilja, PA Walker and WS Shanahan were each unable to attend one meeting.
At the end of each meeting, the committee met with the external auditor with no executive or staff member present.
The committee also met on one occasion with the business risk director with no executive or staff member present.
During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focusing on key areas of judgement, critical accounting policies and any changes required to those.
It reviewed the work of the filings assurance committee described below and external audit findings.
The committee received presentations from senior executives on the management of key risk and control issues in their respective business areas and reviewed the effectiveness and findings from the risk management and internal control processes described below, including review of risk mitigation plans for critical risks.
It also reviewed the work of the audit and risk committee described below.
To support it in this activity, it had available to it the resources of the business risk group which supports the processes for identifying and assessing the management of significant business risks and conducts internal audits across the whole of the groups business.
The committee reviewed at each meeting a report in respect of the compliance programme described below.
The committee received regular updates on the implementation, and compliance with all applicable provisions, of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including a presentation from external legal advisers on the implications of the Act for the committee.
The committee carried out an annual self-assessment in December to review its effectiveness and at the same time reviewed and recommended to the board revisions to its terms of reference.
Monitoring of external auditor During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial statements.
As noted above, the committee also met five times with the external auditor alone.
On the basis of meetings and other information available to the directors, the audit committee is able to assess the ongoing effectiveness of the external audit.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the audit committee considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK and US independence standards.
In May 2003, the committee approved a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services.
This policy was reviewed and updated in June 2004.
Under this policy the provision of any service must be approved by the audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit or other attest services required by statute or requested by management and not otherwise prohibited: due diligence and other support relating to acquisitions and disposals: internal control reviews: accounting and fraud investigations: and certain tax services, including tax compliance: tax planning and related implementation advice in relation to acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
79 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report Nomination committee Chaired by Lord Blyth, this committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
The committee is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the board and succession to it.
It makes recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required blend of skills and experience.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
The committee met five times during the year.
All the meetings were fully attended, except that Lord Hollick, M Lilja, JR Symonds and WS Shanahan were each unable to attend one meeting.
PA Walker was unable to attend two meetings.
The committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in December and at the same time reviewed and recommended to the board revisions to its terms of reference.
The principal activities of the committee during the year were the consideration of the future position of chairman and the appointment of two additional non-executive directors.
The senior non-executive director Sir Robert Wilson at that time led the review and discussions on the chairman, including input from the chief executive, and the committee recommended the extension of Lord Blyths term as chairman for a further two years, to 30 June 2007.
The committee also recommended the appointment to the board of two additional non-executive directors HT Stitzer and JR Symonds: external search consultants assisted with this work.
Remuneration committee This committee is chaired by RF Chase and comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
Lord Hollick will succeed RF Chase as chairman of the remuneration committee on 2 September 2004.
The role of the committee and details of how the company applies the principles of the Code in respect of  are set out in the  report in relation to  policy and practice above.
The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The meetings were fully attended, except that M Lilja, WS Shanahan and PA Walker were each unable to attend one meeting.
The committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in December.
Executive direction and control The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key components of the business: North America and the European major markets, key and venture markets, global supply and the global functions.
It met eight times during the year, generally for two days, including the joint annual strategy conference with the board, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, people and performance including brands.
Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual members of the executive committee who are accountable to him for the performance of their business units.
Executive direction and control procedures include approval of annual three year rolling strategic plans submitted by each business unit executive and quarterly business reviews.
These reviews are generally attended by at least two members of the executive committee and held in market.
The reviews focus on business performance management and specific issues around brands, people, key business decisions and risk management.
The chief executive has created several executive working groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including the following: Audit and risk committee chaired by the chief executive and responsible for overseeing the approach to securing effective risk management and control in the business, reviewing and challenging the sources of assurance as to their adequacy, reviewing the effectiveness of the compliance programme and reporting periodically on the above to the audit committee or to the board.
Corporate citizenship committee chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making decisions and recommendations to the executive committee or board.
The main areas addressed by the committee include: policies and codes such as occupational health and safety, human rights : social programmes including alcohol education : environmental matters: community affairs: reputation issues referred by the Diageo brand committee: and measuring and reporting on social, environmental and economic performance.
The committee seeks to identify social, community and environmental areas where the group could be at risk or where there is scope for positive impact on the communities where we operate.
Policies and processes have been developed and implemented to manage each of these.
Progress against these is reported periodically to the board and publicly through a separate corporate citizenship report, which is subject to external assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the Diageo web site.
A copy of the corporate citizenship report is available on request.
The company has communicated its policies widely and in key areas has established management systems to manage, monitor and enhance impacts.
Wherever possible, these management systems are incorporated into existing practices such as the quality management programme or the procurement and vendor selection procedures.
Finance committee chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital structure and management of financial risks and the policies and control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury and taxation required to implement the companys financial strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing authorities and procedures recommended by the finance committee and approved by the board.
80 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report Filings assurance committee chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring the processes which ensure that the company complies with all relevant UK, US or other regulatory filing provisions, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or deriving from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the committee carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Diageos disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
The company has developed a programme to transfer a number of its transaction processes principally in relation to recording of sales and purchases from business units to shared service centres using common global processes supported by new systems.
During the period the transaction processing for a number of business units, principally related to operations in the United States, has been transferred to shared service centres and further transfers are planned for coming years.
Risk management and internal control The groups aim is to manage risk and to control its business and financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it to: exploit profitable business opportunity in a disciplined way: avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the requirements of the Combined Code, has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved.
All significant business units, groups of business units and the Diageo executive committee perform a risk assessment at least annually as an integral part of their strategic planning.
Business unit risk assessments and the activities planned to manage those risks are reviewed by relevant executives, for example at quarterly business reviews.
The executive risk assessment and selected other risk assessments are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee of the board.
Those committees gain assurance in relation to the effectiveness of risk management and control from: summary information in relation to the management of identified risks: detailed review of the effectiveness of management of selected key risks: and the independent work of the business risk group which supports and challenges risk assessments, supports and challenges management to improve the effectiveness of management of identified key risks and conducts internal audits.
In addition, a control and risk self assessment is completed annually by each business unit or function, against objectives, risks and criteria defined within the relevant business and financial processes.
The committee also considers findings arising from external audit work.
The risk assessment and management processes described above are also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems implementations.
Additional risk management activity is focused directly towards operational risks within the business including health and safety, product quality and environmental risk management.
The above risk management processes and systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Summary information and findings are regularly reported to the audit committee.
Diageo has started the work necessary to enable it to comply in due course with the SEC rules which implement section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Following the implementation of this section of the Act, the management of companies will be required to state their responsibility for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and to annually assess the effectiveness of that structure and those procedures.
The external auditor will be required to attest to and report on managements assessment.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
They confirm that they have reviewed their effectiveness, based on the procedures described above, during the period.
Compliance programme Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
The board has a well established compliance programme to support achievement of this commitment.
The code of business conduct recently revised and approved by the board in December 2003 sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, competition law, insider trading and corrupt payments as well as illegal acts in general.
A marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
The full texts of the code of conduct, marketing code and compliance programme are available on the companys web site at www.
Compliance programme guidelines specify the manner in which any potential violations of these expectations should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an independent SpeakUp Helpline.
The latter has been re-communicated to employees, is operated independently and reports to the secretary to the audit committee, head of group security and the compliance programme director for report to the audit committee.
There is an annual certification requirement for all senior employees to confirm compliance with the code of conduct or to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the compliance programme director.
Training including e-learning and monitoring activities are also undertaken.
Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee review the operation of the programme.
81 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report Relations with shareholders The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts are kept informed through regular meetings and presentations.
Diageo produces the short-form annual review, which contains the information believed to be of most interest to private investors.
Approximately 85% of private investors have elected to receive only this document rather than the full annual report.
Shareholders can also choose to receive e-mail notification when shareholder documents and new company information are published on Diageos web site.
The web site also provides shareholders with the facility to check their shareholdings on-line and to send any questions they may have to the company.
Shareholders are invited to write in to the chairman or any other director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to put their questions in person.
The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are available at AGMs to take any relevant questions.
At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders.
The company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt of the reports and accounts and the approval of the  report are put to the shareholders.
Charitable and political donations During the year, UK group companies made donations of 7.3 million 2003 6.5 million to charitable organisations including the Diageo Foundation and 2.7 million 2003 2.7 million to the Thalidomide Trust.
The Diageo Foundation made charitable donations of 1.6 million 2003 1.5 million during the year.
In the rest of the world, group companies made charitable donations of 10.2 million 2003 12.5 million.
The group has not given any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom.
The group made no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.3 million during the year 2003 0.6 million.
Supplier payment policies and performance Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
Operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
Creditor days have not been calculated, as Diageo plc had no trade creditors at 30 June 2004.
The companys invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting as agents for the company.
Statement of  The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report set out before the financial statements, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors, in preparing these financial statements, consider that the company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Diageo has American Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and is subject to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
As a consequence of its NYSE listing, the company is subject to those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
82 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance report New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules In November 2003, the SEC approved the NYSEs new corporate governance rules for listed companies.
Under these new rules, Diageo must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Diageo believes the following to be the significant differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies.
Basis of regulation US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company incorporated in the United Kingdom to include in its annual report and accounts a narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the Combined Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period covered by the annual report and accounts.
References to the Combined Code are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 1998 by the Hampel Committee and annexed to the Listing Rules by the FSA.
It is not mandatory for companies to follow the principles set forth in the Combined Code, and the Combined Code does not require companies to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which they comply.
A company that has not complied with the Combined Code provisions, however, or that complied with only some of the Combined Code provisions or in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must specify the Combined Code provisions with which it has not complied, and where relevant for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated above, Diageo complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code.
Director independence The Combined Codes principles recommend that at least half of a companys board, excluding the chairman, should consist of independent non-executive directors.
The NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies state that companies must have a majority of independent directors.
Currently, eight of Diageos 11 directors are non-executive directors.
The NYSE rules set forth five bright-line tests for determining director independence and require in addition that the board of directors affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with the company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the company.
The Combined Code, which is followed by Diageo, prescribes a more general standard for determining director independence.
The Combined Code requires a companys board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Diageos board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs bright-line tests.
Chairman and chief executive The Combined Code recommends that the chairman and the chief executive should not be the same individual in order to ensure that there is a clear division of responsibility for running each companys business.
There is no corresponding requirement for US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and chief executive.
Non-executive director meetings Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year.
During the year under review, Diageos non-executive directors met twice as a group without any executive directors present.
Committees Diageo has a number of board committees which are similar in purpose and constitution to those required for US companies under NYSE standards.
Diageos audit and remuneration committees consist entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The nomination committee is chaired by Lord Blyth, who is not independent.
Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating corporate governance committee, composed entirely of independent directors.
In addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, this committee must develop and recommend to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The terms of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which follow the requirements of the Combined Code, do not require the committee to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for Diageo.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, Diageo discloses in its annual report how the board, its committees and the directors are evaluated and the results of the evaluation and it provides extensive information regarding  in the  report.
Code of ethics NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers.
Diageos board has established a compliance programme to support achievement of its commitment to conducting Diageos business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
Diageos code of business conduct sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, competition law, insider trading and corrupt payments as well as illegal acts in general.
In addition, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance certification Each chief executive officer of a US company listed on the NYSE must certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of any NYSE corporate governance standards.
In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, PS Walsh, Diageos chief executive, is not required to provide the NYSE with this annual compliance certification.
However, in accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, PS Walsh is required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing after any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to the company.
