35 audit committee report The Audit Committee presents a report on its activities during the period.
The Audit Committee reported to the Board on the outcome of Details of the split between audit and nonThe members of the Audit Committee for this review.
During the period under review audit work can be found in Note 5 of the the period under review were as follows: the Audit Committee recommended the annual financial statements.
The creation of the Group Risk Committee.
Committee considers that this policy, Rory Scott Chairman This committee was formed on 15 together with the other controls in place Rupert Barclay appointed 15 September September 2004 and reports to the Audit within the Group, are sufficient to ensure 2004 Committee.
The terms of reference for the the objectivity and independence of the Robert Mansfield resigned 17 November Group Risk Committee are available on external auditors.
Non-audit work during 2003 the Companys website www.
the period has comprised taxation, Gordon Waddell company secretarial advice and various Derek Irish Internal audit audit certificates.
During the period under review The Audit Committee is comprised of  has continued to The Committee has reviewed the auditors independent non-executives and Derek act as internal auditors for the Group.
The management letters and the responses by Irish who is a senior partner in an Committee confirms their programme of management, and has met with the independent accounting practice.
The work, and reviews their reports.
The head external auditors three times during the Committee met five times during the of the internal audit function has direct period under review.
period under review, twice without access to both the Chairman of the Audit management and auditors present.
A Committee and the Chairman of the Financial statements table showing attendance at committee Board.
The Committee has met with the The Committee has reviewed the financial meetings is available on page 34.
Of the internal auditors twice during the period statements for the period, and has current committee members, three are under review and the Chairman of the considered matters such as the qualified chartered accountants.
Committee has met privately with them on consistency of accounting policies, Biographical details for all directors can be two further occasions.
decisions requiring a major element of found on pages 12 and 13. judgement, compliance with accounting External audit standards, the going concern assumption The Board of Directors has approved The Committee reviews performance of and the statement on internal control written terms of reference for the Audit the external auditors, and the level of systems.
These terms of reference are audit service provided.
In the period under available on the Companys website review the Committee has reviewed the Other matters www.
scope of the interim review and year end A revised ethical code, whistleblowing audit including the Group materiality level.
policy and procedures for whistleblowers The main duties and activities of the Auditor independence is discussed and have been reviewed by the Committee, Committee in the period under review can confirmed at each meeting.
Within the recommended to the Board and will be be summarised as follows: terms of reference the Committee has implemented during the next financial year.
agreed that other assurance services This policy is intended to assist individuals Internal control during the financial year exceeding who believe they have discovered serious The Committee has reviewed the US$50,000 on an individual basis or malpractice or impropriety to take the effectiveness of the Groups internal US$250,000 in total must be approved by appropriate action.
A copy of the revised controls and procedures for identification, the Committee.
ethical code and whistleblowing policy will assessment and reporting of risks and has be available on the Companys website.
