31 corporate governance report This report contains a summary of how the Board has complied with the principles set out in the Combined Code.
As the Companys reporting period Remuneration Committee.
The Board The Board has met five times during the commenced on 1 October 2003, it is also considered that the valuable input past year.
A table indicating attendance by required to report on compliance relating to the Remuneration Committee that directors at Board and Committee to Section 1 of the code and principles Dillie Malherbe could provide justified meetings is given at the end of this report.
prepared by the Committee on Corporate the appointment.
Governance chaired by Sir Ronald The non-executive directors have met Hampel and published in June 1998 the The Company is working towards independently without executives present Hampel Code.
compliance with the provisions of the three times during the year, and in addition Combined Code issued by the Financial communicate telephonically and The Company has been in compliance Reporting Council in July 2003 the 2003 electronically on a regular basis.
with the Code provisions set out in section FRC Code.
1 of the Hampel Code throughout the Board training and evaluation period with the exception that: The Operational Review and the Financial During the period under review the Jeremy Ord held the position of Review contain detailed reviews of the directors have received training, both combined Chairman and Chief Groups performance and financial individually, and in facilitated sessions as Executive until 1 March 2004, when position.
The Board considers these a board, on issues such as strategy and Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief reports, along with the Chairmans development of the Groups solutions.
Statement, the Chief Executive Officers During the period under review, Jeremy Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a Report and the Directors Report, to Ord has evaluated the individual member of the Remuneration reflect, with reasonable accuracy, the performance of the executive directors Committee on 15 September 2004.
The using the performance management and Dillie Malherbe is not considered to be Directors responsibility for the financial performance review system which has independent by the Board, solely due to statements is described on page 46. been implemented throughout the Group.
his role at VenFin Ltd. A subsidiary of It is intended to conduct further VenFin Ltd currently holds the Board of Directors evaluations on board performance as a Convertible Bonds as detailed in A table setting out members of the Board whole on an annual basis.
Note 21 to the financial statements on during the period can be found on page 74.
Board operation converted until December 2005, at the The Board is responsible to the earliest, and currently VenFin Ltd holds Biographical details for the current directors shareholders for the conduct of the no shares in the Company.
Dillie can be found on pages 12 and 13. business of the Group, and decides upon Malherbe has extensive and valuable Group strategy.
It also reviews operational experience in the field of executive The Board currently comprises the performance, approves the Group's remuneration, both in South Africa and Chairman, four further executive directors, business plans, approves the interim and on a global basis.
The Board and six non-executive directors.
The annual financial statements, determines considered all the implications of Dillie Board considers all its present nonthe Groups authority levels, treasury Malherbes role at VenFin and executive directors, with the exception of policies and risk management policies, concluded that this would not Dillie Malherbe, to be fully independent.
ensures adequate funding, and approves compromise in any way the Gordon Waddell holds the position of major investments and the remuneration independence of his input to the senior independent non-executive director.
A defined ANNUAL REPORT 2004 32 corporate governance report schedule of matters reserved for decision Audit Committee recommends to the Board the by the Board is maintained.
Rory Scott Chairman remuneration policies for the Groups Rupert Barclay appointed 15 September directors and senior executives, having Financial reporting is routinely performed 2004 considered relevant market norms and according to a strict schedule.
The nonRobert Mansfield resigned 17 November independent advice where appropriate.
No executive directors are provided with 2003 director is involved in determining his own sufficient information to enable them to Gordon Waddell remuneration.
During the year, the reach independent conclusions on the Derek Irish Committee granted share options in terms matters brought to their attention at board of the Share Option Scheme 2000, and it meetings.
In addition to the board The Audit Committee is comprised of is planned that the Committee will control meetings, detailed briefings are given to independent non-executive directors.
all grants under the proposed new long the non-executive directors by board and Derek Irish, a chartered accountant who term incentive arrangements.
non-board members, giving nonholds a higher diploma in Income Tax law executives an opportunity to question and is a senior partner in an independent The report of the Remuneration operational executives directly.
accounting practice, attends the meetings Committee is contained on pages 39 to 45. in order to provide independent advice to The Board ensures that each director is the Committee.
The Committee met five Nomination Committee provided with appropriate and timely times during the year.
The Groups Jeremy Ord Chairman information in order to exercise their external and internal auditors attend the Robert Mansfield resigned 17 November judgement.
All the directors have the meetings and have direct access to the 2003 facility to take independent professional Committee to report the results of work Gordon Waddell advice at company expense, following a directed by the Committee as well as any Dorian Wharton-Hood formal procedure that has been approved matters of concern.
The Chief Financial by the Board.
They also have access to Officer attends the meetings at the The Committee meets as necessary, and the services and advice of the Company request of the Committee.
has met three times during the year under Secretaries in the UK and South Africa.
The Nomination Committee is The report of the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition The Board has appointed four committees contained on page 35. of the Board and identifies and makes to which it has delegated responsibilities to recommendations to the Board regarding allow it to control the activities of the Group Remuneration Committee the appointment of new directors.
Each of these committees Rory Scott Chairman satisfies itself that appropriate succession operates within defined terms of reference.
Dillie Malherbe appointed 15 September plans are in place for the Board and Copies of the terms of reference for the 2004 senior management of the Group, and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Robert Mansfield resigned 17 November reviews the performance of non-executive Committees are available on the 2003 directors to ensure that they have devoted Companys website www.
Gordon Waddell appointed 15 September sufficient time to their duties.
2004 Executive Committee Dorian Wharton-Hood resigned 15 During the period the Nomination The Executive Committee has September 2004 Committee carried out a search for a new responsibility for the day-to-day running of Chief Executive Officer, considering both the business and the execution of the The Remuneration Committee is internal and external candidates, which Group's strategy.
The Executive comprised of independent non-executive resulted in the appointment of Brett Committee is chaired by Brett Dawson, directors, with the exception of Dillie Dawson on 1 March 2004.
The Nomination and the other executive directors are also Malherbe who was appointed to the Committee also considered candidates for members.
Additional members of the committee on 15 September 2004.
The the role of Chief Financial Officer, and executive committee are detailed on reasons for the appointment of Dillie David Sherriffs was appointed to replace page 14.
There is a clear division of Malherbe to this committee are given on Malcolm Rutherford on 1 March 2004. responsibilities between the Executive page 31.
The Remuneration Committee Committee and the Board.
The Executive met six times in the past year.
It operates As noted in the last annual report and Committee meets fortnightly.
within defined terms of reference, and accounts, the Nomination Committee has DIMENSION DATA 33 corporate governance report also been carrying out a search for of internal control is designed to manage Appropriate disaster recovery plans are in further independent non-executive rather than eliminate risk to which the place, which have been documented and directors.
Rupert Barclay was appointed Group is exposed and provides tested.
on 9 June 2004. reasonable rather than absolute assurance against material misstatement Financial reporting Communication with shareholders or loss.
The main features of the Groups A comprehensive budgeting process takes The Group is committed to honest, open system of internal control are described place annually throughout the Group, and regular communication to all below.
culminating in regional budgets that are stakeholders on both financial and nonreviewed and approved by the Board.
External audit, internal audit and risk Chief Financial Officer is responsible for management report to the Audit determining financial policy within the The Group reports formally to Committee.
The reports provided by these Group and the Chief Executive Officer is shareholders when half and full year functions assist the Audit Committee in responsible for executing these financial results are announced and issued to the evaluating and reporting to the Board on policies and ensuring compliance with relevant stock exchanges, shareholders the strategic, operational and financial Group strategy.
The Chief Executive and media.
Executive and senior controls which the Group has in place.
Officer is also responsible for establishing management also give presentations to The Board has conducted a review of the the integrity of forecast data upon which institutional investors, analysts and the effectiveness of the Groups system of executive decisions are based.
media over the results period.
internal controls for the year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and Each Group operation reports its activity, Regular stakeholder meetings are held to accounts and is satisfied that these are turnover, actual results, cash position and update the market on the Groups adequate to safeguard Group assets.
forecasts monthly to the Executive strategies, operations and performance.
The Executive Committee Executive and senior management attend Risk management considers these against agreed quarterly these meetings on a regular basis.
All There is in place a formal Risk and annual forecasts and the annual briefings and meetings are conducted in Management function, run by the Group budget, and reports to the Board line with the Groups written guidelines to Risk Manager.
In addition, the Chief Financial ensure control over price-sensitive process governs the way in which Officer distributes monthly management information and equality of disclosure.
In management evaluates the Groups accounts to non-executive directors addition, directors are kept informed of the business risks and identifies controls to serving on the Board.
views of all stakeholders through regular manage them.
Risk is assessed with briefings from the investor relations team reference to the business objectives of the Key controls over business unit risks and the Chief Executive Officer.
Risks identified by the risk include reviews against performance identification and assessment programme indicators and exception reporting.
Each Shareholders are invited to attend the are coordinated by the Group Risk business units senior management is Annual General Meeting and to pose Committee, which has been appointed by responsible for identifying, evaluating and questions to the Board.
All executive and the Audit Committee.
There are non-executive directors are expected to channels of communication available to attend this meeting.
Management in each region are report significant risks to the Board if responsible for monitoring and controlling necessary.
Financial and other information about the risk on an ongoing basis, and for reporting Group is contained on its website, to the Board any factors which will impact Internal audit www.
A copy of the Groups on the achievement of their business The internal audit function is a structured annual report is sent to stakeholders and objectives.
The Group Risk Manager review process based on risk assessment.
is posted on a our website.
monitors and coordinates regional activity.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the The key business, financial, operational work plan and key findings of the internal Internal Control and compliance risks facing the Group are audit process and monitors this to ensure The Board has overall responsibility for reported to the Audit Committee, who that areas of weakness are addressed.
It the Groups internal controls and for report to the Board.
assesses compliance with financial and reviewing their effectiveness.
The system operational controls and the Groups ANNUAL REPORT 2004 34 corporate governance report policies and procedures, at a business IT systems Authority and review unit level in each of the regions where the The Groups IT systems continue to be The Group has clearly defined levels of Group operates.
It also provides consolidated, with a focus on globalisation authority for the subsidiary boards and assistance to management in complying of common systems.
This benefits our their directors in making financial and with their risk management customers and our internal operational decisions including major responsibilities.
The internal audit function communication, reporting and knowledge investments, capital expenditure and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The security of data held on contractual engagements with customers IT systems remains a priority, as does the and suppliers.
The Groups internal audit Quality and integrity of personnel continuous improvement of disaster processes monitor compliance with these The Group is committed to aligning its recovery systems.
employees with its interests and values.
It has a published ethical code to which Controls over central functions employees are expected to adhere, and Treasury and Corporate Finance are transgressions are strictly dealt with.
Treasury policies are Directors Report and the Corporate Social recorded in writing and reviewed as Responsibility Report contain information necessary.
Both functions report directly to regarding the Groups commitment to the Board, and Treasury has been subject employees and ethical practices.
to a visit by internal audit in the period under review.
Attendance at meetings during the period under review Name Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee JJ Ord 5 n a n a 3 1 BW Dawson 3 n a n a n a SM Joubert 4 n a n a n a 2 MT Rutherford 3 n a n a n a PK Quarmby 5 n a n a n a 3 DB Sherriffs 2 n a n a n a 4 RGML Barclay 2 n a n a n a DA Frankel 5 n a n a n a 5 J Malherbe 4 n a 2 n a MM Ngoasheng 4 n a n a n a RM Scott 5 5 6 n a 6 GH Waddell 5513 7 PD Wharton-Hood 4 n a 4 3 D Irish n a 5 n a n a 1 Appointed to the Board 1 March 2004 2 Resigned from the Board 11 May 2004 3 Appointed to the Board 9 June 2004 4 Appointed to the Board 9 June 2004 and the Audit Committee 15 September 2004 5 Appointed to the Board 17 November 2003 and the Remuneration Committee 15 September 2004 6 Appointed to the Remuneration Committee 15 September 2004 7 Resigned from the Remuneration Committee 15 September 2004 DIMENSION DATA
