CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the principle and relevant Committee meetings unless proposed by the National Association of and application of sound corporate governance.
exceptional circumstances prevent them Pension Funds for determining whether from attending.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the provisions of the The Board and its Committees, as detailed Audit Committee Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 below, receive timely information of a quality The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, of the Combined Code on Corporate that enables them to carry out their roles which meets at least three times a year, cover Governance except as stated below in respect effectively.
All Directors have access all the points recommended by the Combined of Remuneration Committee membership to the advice and services of the Company Code.
The Committee monitors the Groups accounting and financial procedures, Combined Code B.
A procedure is in place for any Director to take independent professional including the discussion of the accounting Code was substantially revised in 2003 advice in the furtherance of his duties at implications of major transactions, and following the publication of the Higgs and the Companys expense.
The Directors are receives regular reports on the review Smith reports, taking effect for financial provided with opportunities for training of internal controls.
The Committee is years beginning on or after 1 November to ensure that they are kept up to date on responsible for the review of the annual 2003.
The Board has an ongoing review relevant new legislation and changing accounts and interim statement and meetings of its corporate governance policy and has commercial risks.
New Directors are given with the external Auditor.
The Audit implemented some changes to take account appropriate induction training, including site Committee receives written confirmation of the Combined Code and best practice.
visits to major business units.
During the year from the external Auditor as to any Board and Board Committees relationships that might have a bearing the Board carried out a comprehensive selfThe role of the Board appraisal which was led by the Chairman on its independence.
The external Auditor The Board is collectively responsible for and the Senior Independent Director.
The also confirms whether it considers itself promoting the success of the Company by appraisal included the performance of Board independent within the meaning of the UK directing and supervising the Companys Committees.
All Directors and the Company regulatory and professional requirements.
The Boards role is to provide Secretary participated in the exercise.
During The Committee has adopted a policy on the leadership of the Company within a the current financial year the Board intends supply of non-audit services by external framework of prudent and effective controls to repeat the process.
The external Auditor is permitted which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
Directors meet separately at least once a year to undertake some non-audit services, for to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board sets the Companys strategic example tax compliance and advisory services aims and ensures that the necessary financial and due diligence activities associated with Board Committees and human resources are in place for the potential acquisitions and divestments.
The principal committees of the Board are Company to meet its objectives and reviews the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Non-audit services and fees are reported to management performance.
The Audit Committee comprises the Audit Committee twice a year.
In guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to In addition, the Board sets the Companys order to comply with the new Corporate the external Auditor should not exceed 75% values and standards and ensures that its Governance provisions, Mr A P Hichens, of the annual Group audit fee without prior obligations to its shareholders and others as Chairman of the Company, retired as a formal approval of the Committee.
Approval are understood and met.
member of this Committee on 19 April 2004. for permitted non-audit services are sought The Board currently comprises three The Remuneration Committee comprises as required by the relevant Group policy.
Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
independent non-Executive Directors with Nomination Committee The offices of Chairman and Group Chief the exception of Mr Piette, who is no longer The Nomination Committee considers Executive are held separately.
Mr RGBeeston considered an independent non-Executive the appointment of Directors, reviews is the Senior Independent Director.
During Director by reason of his length of service.
succession planning at Board level, and the year each of the non-Executive Directors The Nomination Committee comprises the makes recommendations to the Board as has at all times acted independently of Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and a whole.
A rigorous process is in place for management and has no relationships which Mr Beeston, the Senior Independent Director.
the appointment of new Directors, involving would materially interfere with the exercise All Board committees have written terms of their independent judgement and the use of external recruitment consultants, of reference agreed by the Board.
It is recognised that where appropriate, followed by meetings both of these is available on the Companys Mr D R Piette is not considered a fully with the Committee and then with the Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired independent non-Executive Director by Mr P M Johnson, the Remuneration Remuneration Committee because of his length of service.
Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston and The Remuneration Committee is responsible the Nomination Committee is chaired by The Board meets a minimum of eight times for determining the remuneration of the Mr Hichens.
The Board has used the criteria per year.
All Board members attend all Board Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 and senior management.
Mr Piette, a member procedures have been in place for the whole strategic, operational and financial issues.
of this Committee, is not considered fully of the financial year ended 30 April 2004 The Groups operational audit function independent in accordance with current and up to the date of the approval of these undertakes regular reviews of the Groups corporate governance guidelines, by reason financial statements.
operations and their systems of internal of his length of service.
The work of the function is The Board determines the objectives and an international view on remuneration and overseen by the Audit Committee, which broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly continues to provide an objective opinion.
regularly reviews its plans and activities.
and there is a schedule of matters which The Report on Remuneration is set out on The Directors can confirm that they have are required to be brought to it for decision.
pages 28 to 34. reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups The Board has delegated to management the system of internal control.
This exercise Other Board Committees responsibility for establishing a system of included a process of self-certification The Board has delegated certain powers, internal control appropriate to the business by senior divisional management in mainly of a routine nature, to the General environments in which the Group operates.
which they confirmed that their divisions Purposes Committee, which comprises the Key elements of this system include: have complied with Group policies and Group Chief Executive and the Group a set of Key Corporate Values which have procedures and reported any significant Finance Director under the chairmanship been communicated to all concerned: control weaknesses identified during of the Group Chief Executive.
It also involved reviewing a clearly defined divisionalised Relations with shareholders the results of the work of the Groups organisation structure for monitoring The Company has a programme of regular operational audit function and the risk the conduct and operations of individual meetings which sometimes includes the identification and management processes business units: Chairman and the Senior Independent identified above.
Director, site visits and results briefings clear delegation of authority throughout Going concern with its major institutional shareholders, the Group, starting with the matters The Directors, having made appropriate which provides opportunities to discuss reserved for the Board: enquiries, have a reasonable expectation the progress of the business.
The Board also a formal process for ensuring that key risks that the Group has adequate resources to receives feedback from major shareholders affecting all the Groups operations are continue in operational existence for the in the form of independently prepared identified and assessed on a regular basis, foreseeable future.
For this reason, they reports.
The Annual General Meeting is continue to adopt the going concern basis together with the controls in place to used as an opportunity to communicate with in preparing the accounts on pages 38 to 62. mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration private shareholders, including a short is embedded in decision-making processes.
presentation on the business and current The most significant risks are periodically trading position as well as an opportunity reported to the Board and considered by it: for questions from investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit the preparation and review of comprehensive and Remuneration Committees.
Regular annual divisional and Group budgets and communication with shareholders also an annual review and approval by the takes place through the annual and interim Board of the corporate strategy: reports and via the Companys website the monthly reporting of actual results www.
and their review against budget, forecasts Internal control and the previous year, with explanations The Board has overall responsibility for the obtained for all significant variances: Groups system of internal control and for clearly defined policies for capital reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, expenditure and investment, including however, can only be designed to manage appropriate authorisation levels, with larger rather than eliminate risk and can therefore capital projects, acquisitions and disposals provide only reasonable and not absolute requiring Board approval: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull procedure manuals laying down common Committee guidance, the Company control procedures and policies to apply established the procedures necessary to throughout the Group: ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing formal quarterly meetings between central the significant risks to the Group.
These and divisional management to discuss DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 27
