Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Nomination Committee the Committee The principal responsibility of the Committee is to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of a new Director or Chairman.
In discharging that responsibility the Committee is required: 1. to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: 2. to assess the time commitment expected on the part of a new Chairman of the company and to require new Non-executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is of expected of them: 3. to oversee the search process, using such outside advisers as the Committee may consider appropriate: 4. to keep the Board advised of the candidates who have been identified for approach and on the preferred candidates for initial interviews: 5. to arrange for all members of the Board to meet the preferred candidate prior to making a formal recommendation to the full Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com investors under the heading Corporate Governance.
Composition of the Committee The names of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 31 December 2004 are as follows: Mr P G Rogerson Chairman Mr R C Soames Mr A C Salvesen Mr N H Northridge Mr R V McGlone The Committee is composed of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the independent Non-executive Directors.
The qualifications of the members of the Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
There is no specific provision for remuneration of the members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings The number of meetings during 2004 and attendance is set out on page 38.
Main activities of the committee in the year to 31 December 2004 1. Letters of Appointment The Committee considered the issue of the new letters of appointment to the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Succession Planning The Committee met to consider Board succession planning and a process for identifying and managing talent within the Group.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 3 March 2005 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 43
