Corporate governance Principles statement easyJet is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Combined Code has recently been revised and the latest version applies to all reporting periods beginning after 1 November 2003.
Notwithstanding this, easyJet has adopted the revised Combined Code early.
During the year, it has complied with the best practice provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code, with four exceptions which are set out below.
Statement of compliance The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during the year, with the exception of the following: a Prior to admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the easyJet Group granted share options without performance criteria attached to them.
The majority of these options remain outstanding.
Options granted since December 2000 have had performance conditions attached.
The Group does not intend to grant further share options to employees without attaching performance conditions to their exercise.
b The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not have regular meetings with major external shareholders, on the basis that the Board considers this more appropriate to be carried out by the Chairman.
c Where non-executive directors exercise share options, they are not required to retain these until at least one year after they have resigned from the Board.
However, given that the Board has decided not to grant any further options to non-executive directors, this only relates to existing options held.
d Whilst the terms of reference of various committees and contracts of directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting and on request, they will not be available on the Company website until early 2005.
Board of Directors As at 30 September 2004, the Board comprised six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors, as set out on page 28 of this report.
The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Ray Webster are separated and clearly defined.
Tony Illsley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company regards Sir Colin Chandler, Dawn Airey, Colin Day, Tony Illsley and Diederik Karsten as independent non-executive directors.
Nick Hartley resigned from the Board on 2 August 2004.
Until November 2002, Nick Hartley provided services to private companies in which Stelios Haji-Ioannou had an interest.
Since that time, his consultancy services have ceased and he has stepped down from the boards of easyCar Limited and easyInternetcafe Limited.
He remains the Chairman of Stelmar Shipping.
As a consequence, the easyJet Board debated whether Nick Hartley should be considered independent and agreed that he should be considered to be so, on the basis that he had severed most of his links with the Haji-loannou businesses and therefore was independent.
The Combined Code states that the holding of share options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive directors independence.
Share options were granted to some of the independent non-executive directors just prior to admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority in November 2000 and at the end of that financial year.
In 2002, after discussion with shareholder lobby groups, those directors agreed that they would exercise their options as soon as is reasonably practical after the date that they are allowed to do so.
The Board has considered the holding of these options and was aware of them at the time that it made its judgement as to which directors are to be considered independent.
The judgement was made on the basis that the number of options were insignificant in relation to the financial affairs of each independent director.
There are matters which are reserved to the Board by virtue of a resolution of the Board.
These include matters relating to share issues, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, connected party transactions, borrowings and guarantees, material contracts, capital expenditure, shareholder and investor relations, officers and employees, treasury policies, risk management policies, donations, litigation, strategy, internal control, budgets, accounting issues and authority levels.
By resolution, the Board has delegated certain authorities to management.
This delegation covers areas such as finance expenditure, treasury and the sale of assets, revenue management, customer compensation, contracts, leases, employment and business development.
Annual report and accounts 2004 27 Corporate governance continued The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
This direct contact, together with feedback from management and from the Companys two sponsors ABN Amro and Credit Suisse First Boston, is used to brief the Board.
ABN Amro replaced UBS in September 2004.
In addition, the Board has sought direct feedback from sources who are independent of easyJet.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chairman to be the conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of the investors.
On this basis, easyJet considers that the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has met during the year with the other non-executive directors excluding the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board meets regularly, with ten meetings being held during the year ended 30 September 2004.
All members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
Number Total of meetings number of attended meetings Sir Colin Chandler 10 10 Tony Illsley 910 Dawn Airey appointed 6 April 2004 6 7 Amir Eilon 10 10 Colin Day 910 Diederik Karsten 710 Ray Webster 10 10 Chris Walton 10 10 Directors who resigned during the year: Nick Hartley resigned 2 August 2004 7 7 The Chairman discusses governance and strategy with major shareholders on a regular basis and communicates the results of these visits to the Board.
All non-executive directors have been offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Similarly, if a major shareholder requests the attendance of a specific nonexecutive director at a meeting, then they will be made available.
However, there are no instances of shareholders having made such requests during the year.
The Chairman confers with other non-executive directors on a regular basis, without the executive directors present.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
They have access to appropriate independent professional advice, resources and other services as they see fit to discharge their duties.
The Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee also have access to resources to allow them to undertake their duties effectively.
The Company Secretary is responsible for generating the funding for these activities.
All directors, both executive and non-executive are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures have been complied with.
The Board has agreed that the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter to be decided by itself.
Insurance cover has been established for all directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions as an officer of easyJet.
28 Annual report and accounts 2004 During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the Board using an external evaluation framework.
The process involved structured interviews with directors and management.
The Chairman has also reviewed the performance of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees and also that of the individual Board directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three-year period.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for re-election.
Executive directors are not appointed for specific terms, however, in practice each director will normally serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one-third of the Board at each AGM.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Tony Illsley, the Chairman, Colin Day and Dawn Airey.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Committee has met five times during the year.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and is satisfied that the directors who are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee have been documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference will be available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, www.
The key terms set out that the Remuneration Committee will: l Seek to provide the packages needed to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the quality required without paying more than is necessary: l Judge where to position easyJet relative to other companies, taking account of what comparable companies are paying and relative performance: l Determine the terms of any compensation package in the event of early termination of any executive directors contract in accordance with its terms: l Make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost: and l Determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment for executive directors.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number of attended meetings Tony Illsley 55 Colin Day 55 Dawn Airey appointed 6 April 2004 2 3 Director who resigned during the year: Nick Hartley resigned 2 August 2004 3 3 By invitation: Ray Webster 55 Annual report and accounts 2004 29 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, of whom all are independent.
The Audit Committee members are Colin Day Chairman, Tony Illsley and Diederik Karsten.
This Committee meets at least three times per year.
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting that management and the Board have established and reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: l Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal financial control system: l Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: l Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, financial and senior management, and the Board: l Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and l Review from time to time the need for an internal audit function The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external auditors.
In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the auditor will not be used for consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that they have taken to ensure their independence.
easyJet then monitors the auditors performance and behaviour during the exercise of their duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.3 million 2003: 0.5 million with KPMG in respect of non-audit services and 0.5 million 2003: 1.0 million with other parties who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee and is satisfied that the directors who are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The Chairman of the Committee Colin Day is the Chief Financial Officer of a major FTSE 100 company, which the Board considers to be recent and relevant experience.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number of attended meetings Colin Day 33 Tony Illsley 33 Diederik Karsten 33 By invitation: Ray Webster 23 Chris Walton 33 Nominations Committee As at 30 September 2004, the Nominations Committee members are Sir Colin Chandler Chairman, Colin Day and Tony Illsley.
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
In appointing non-executive directors, the Boards practice is to use an external recruitment agency.
This has been the case for the most recent appointments to the Board, including Dawn Airey, the only director to have been appointed during the year.
30 Annual report and accounts 2004 The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee have been documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms are as follows: l To consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman of the Board, the making of any appointment or re-appointment to the Board, whether of executive or non-executive directors: and l To establish and carry out a formal selection process of candidates and provide advice and recommendations to the Board or Chairman as appropriate on any such appointment.
Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include details of the time commitments expected in the role.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number of attended meetings Sir Colin Chandler 11 Colin Day 11 Tony Illsley 11 Director who resigned during the year: Nick Hartley resigned 2 August 2004 By invitation: Ray Webster Before the appointment of Sir Colin Chandler to the Board in 2002, his significant other commitments were disclosed to the Board.
Sir Colin continues to have significant commitments outside easyJet, including two Chairmanships, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group plc, and Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
The Board has considered this and has decided that these commitments do not represent an impediment to proper performance of his role as Chairman of easyJet.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations manager.
It is the Companys policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGMs: l All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM: l Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue, including approval of the report and accounts: l The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the meetings: and l It is the Companys intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before that meeting.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for a whistleblower function.
Management is currently in the process of implementing such a system and the Audit Committee is content with this course of action.
Annual report and accounts 2004 31 Corporate governance continued Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors of the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal on-going process has been established to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Company and this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts and this has been regularly reviewed by the Board during the period.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Company directors and has been adopted as follows: l Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously by the Quality Group, in weekly meetings, including Commercial Operations, Marketing and Finance, and in monthly Executive Committee meetings, where individual department and overall business performance is reviewed.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise: l An internal control function has been established which considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group.
This is not an internal audit function, but is an addition to existing processes within easyJet: l The Board considers the current significant risks at each of its formal meetings: l Management considers current significant business risks in formal monthly meetings: l Risk reviews form an integral part of specific projects, such as the acquisition of Go Fly and the decision to select Airbus as a new aircraft fleet supplier: l An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are identified.
The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board who consider whether these high level risks are effectively controlled: l Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified: and l A register of all risks has been created forming a key risk register for the Company.
The directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: l Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: l Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: and l Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors.
Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function.
This is presently considered appropriate given the size of the Company and the close involvement of executive directors and senior management on a day-to-day operational basis.
The Board has considered the need for such a function and will continue to review the need for one from time to time.
However, as set out above, an internal control function exists.
Going concern The directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the Group has sufficient financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing the financial statements.
