Directors report and corporate governance The Directors of Emap plc present their Annual Report and the and delegated authorities applying to Directors and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Groups Main, Executive and Divisional Boards.
Principal activities and future developments The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, The Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which operate the Company has complied with the provisions recommended principally in the UK and France, have market leading positions in Section 1 of the Combined Code which applies to the financial in consumer and trade magazines, exhibitions, conferences, period that is the subject of this Annual Report the Original Code, commercial radio and music TV.
A review of the businesses except in the following two areas: activities during the year and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review, Original Code A.
2.1: For the period 1 April 2003 to 21 May 2003, the Finance Directors review and the Divisional operating the Board had not identified a Senior Independent Director.
The Directors expect continued On 22 May 2003 David Rough was appointed as the Companys growth of the Group through focused investment in the Senior Independent Director bringing it into line with this particular core, new product development and bolt-on acquisitions.
Results and dividends Schedule A to the Original Code recommends that, in general, The Groups profit before taxation amounted to 196m.
After neither annual bonuses nor benefits in kind should be pensionable.
deducting taxation and minority interests of 53m, the profit for Plan pay at Emap is defined as basic salary plus all cash bonuses.
the financial year amounted to 143m which, after dividends The Board believes the inclusion of the cash element of the annual of 60m, leaves a profit for the year of 83m which has been bonus in pensionable salary is valid for two reasons: firstly, transferred to reserves.
Flexiplan is a defined contribution and not a defined benefit pension plan.
The maximum bonus payable to Executive Directors The final dividend recommended by the Directors is 15.9p is 50% of salary and only half of this is payable in cash the other per share which, together with the interim dividend of 7.6p, half being payable in shares.
Consequently the maximum makes a total dividend for the year of 23.5p per share.
additional contribution from the Company can only ever be 10.5% Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will of 25% i. e. 2.6% of the relevant Directors salary.
Secondly, the be paid on 2 August 2004 to members on the register exclusion of half of the annual bonus from pensionable salary on 2 July 2004. would require an increase in the Company contribution level to maintain the pensions package at a competitive level.
This increase Share capital would lead to an additional fixed and permanent cost to the Details of all changes to the Companys share capital are Company, whereas currently, pension contributions will only shown in Note 24 on page 72. increase if performance targets attached to the annual bonus are met.
This additional cost only arises in the year the bonus is Post balance sheet events earned and is only incurred if the bonus is paid, so increasing Details of post balance sheet events are given in Note 32 on the element of Directors at risk remuneration.
The following describes the ways in which the Company Corporate governance complies with the detailed provisions of the Code.
It includes a Statement of compliance with the Combined Code full disclosure of the limited number of areas in which the Company The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate is non-compliant, and explanations as to why this is so.
governance are maintained by Emap.
The Board endorses, with a few limited exceptions that are detailed below, the main and b Directors supporting principles and the provisions set out in the Combined i The Board Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success Council the Code which comes into effect for financial years of the Company.
Its role is to provide effective leadership and to beginning on or after 1 November 2003. ensure appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims During the year, the Board conducted a full review of its and ensuring the right financial and human resources are in place corporate governance policies and procedures to reflect the to achieve the Companys objectives.
The Board is responsible impact of the Higgs Review of the Role and Effectiveness of for reviewing managements performance and setting the Non-Executive Directors, the Smith Report on Audit Committees Companys values and standards.
The Directors act in the best and the Code issued in July 2003.
As a result of this review, interests of the Company, mindful of their duties to shareholders existing Board procedures and practices were strengthened but also with consideration of other stakeholders.
to bring the Company into line with the greater part of the Code, despite this not being required until the Companys The Board Manual incorporates a formal schedule of matters next financial year.
that can only be decided by the Board.
It establishes the Boards responsibility for Group strategy, for monitoring and reviewing The Company applies the principles of the Code through its internal control procedures and ensuring systematic contact own behaviour, by monitoring corporate governance best with shareholders.
The schedule of reserved matters requires that practice and by adopting appropriate recommendations of the Board approve all interim and annual results, the Companys relevant bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries dividend policy, shareholder circulars and listing particulars, and Administrators and the Institute of Chartered Accountants all matters relating to share capital, the annual budget, and of England and Wales.
The Boards policies and procedures major capital projects, investments and commitments.
The are documented in a Board Manual which sets out the roles Board delegates its authority, within clearly defined limits, 34 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report and corporate governance Directors report and corporate governance continued Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 35 to management who exercise that authority primarily through the strength of character and independence of judgement and opinion Executive Board and the four Divisional Boards.
There are clearly are more important than absolute numbers on the Board and it defined levels of delegated authority covering expenditure and is satisfied that no individual or group has unfettered powers of investment which are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
decision or unequal access to information.
The Board intends to continue its current practices and the Chairman will remain The Board meets each month, except August, with other a member of its principal committees and will continue to meetings being held when necessary.
Board papers are chair the Nomination Committee although he will not lead any circulated to Directors six days in advance.
The Board holds consideration of his successor.
All Directors will also continue a strategy meeting once a year, at which it considers the future to have the right to attend all committees except where there direction of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without is a conflict of interest.
The Board believes that the transparency the Executive Directors annually with the Chairman leading these of its committees activities to all Directors is in the interests meetings.
The independent Non-Executive Directors also meet, of shareholders.
It enhances the efficiency of the Board and annually, without the Chairman in attendance to assess Board strengthens the Companys corporate governance framework balance and independence and to monitor whether any one by creating an even balance of power and influence throughout individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The practice also ensures good information flows Independent Director chairs these meetings.
The Board actively encourages all Non-Executive Directors to become members of its Responsibilities are delegated to the four principal committees principal committees.
of the Board: the Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination Committee: and the Treasury Committee.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors contribute external The Board sets the terms of reference for these committees, expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group which are formally documented and are available from the Company such as marketing, consumer business, customer focus, corporate Secretary, at the Companys registered office, on request contact finance, general finance and corporate governance.
They also details on the shareholder information page and on the Companys contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards website www.
Although committee meetings are not deliberations.
It is the Boards opinion that all those Non-Executive closed to non-member Directors, no Director can attend meetings Directors who served throughout the period under review were where he could have a conflict of interest.
Further details of the independent in accordance with the Code.
At the date of his individual committees activities are described later in this report appointment, the Chairman was deemed independent.
on page 36. iv Appointments to the Board The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment at, Board and principal Board committee meetings for the period of new Directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which under review: is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
That Committees terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary Main Audit Remuneration Nomination and on www.
The appointment process begins with Board Committee Committee Committee an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience No.
of meetings held 11 3 3 1 existing on the Board which is effected through a series of Adam Broadbent 11 2 3 1 one-on-one meetings between the Committee Chairman and Andrew Harrison 11 3 3 1 Directors.
An external search consultant is then appointed 1 1 Gary Hughes 9 3 n a 1 and a description of the role and capabilities required is Karen Jones 9 1 3 1 prepared using the information gathered.
This consultant draws 1 1 1 Tom Moloney 11 3 3 1 up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist is then created David Rough 11 3 3 1 through consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These candidates meet with the Committee Chairman and a final Note 1 In attendance by invitation of the Committee selection of potential appointees meets each Director individually.
Following these meetings, the Nomination Committee formally ii Chairman and Chief Executive meets to consider each Directors feedback and to finalise a The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separately held recommendation to the Board concerning any appointment.
and the division of responsibilities clearly set out in the Board Manual.
The Chairmans role running the Board is clearly This process was followed in the recent search and subsequent segregated from that of the Chief Executive, who has executive appointment of Pierre Danon as a Non-Executive Director on responsibility for the Companys operations.
Pierre Danon is Chief Executive of BT Retail and an Executive Director of BT Group plc.
Prior to this he worked iii Board balance and independence for Xerox for 19 years and became Senior Vice President of The Directors of the Company who served throughout the Xerox Corporation before becoming President of Xerox Europe.
year, together with their biographical details, are shown on The Board believes his extensive understanding of consumer pages 28 and 29. business, his reputation for innovation and customer focus and his international experience will add much value to the Board At the date of this report and throughout the year under review, and recommends his election to shareholders at the forthcoming at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Board is made up of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director On joining the Board, new Directors are given a full, tailored and, following the appointment of Pierre Danon on 22 April 2004, induction programme including site visits and meetings with senior four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that management.
Major shareholders are provided with an opportunity Directors report and corporate governance continued to meet any new Non-Executive Director.
This induction is The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are subject to supported by briefing papers prepared by the Company an annual appraisal of their performance as executives that is Secretary in accordance with the Institute of Chartered conducted by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, respectively.
Their performance as Directors of the Board is also appraised in the same way as other Board members prior to their re-election.
During the year, the Board instigated an annual people review, which will be led by the Groups Human Resources Director.
vii Re-election This review is designed to ensure the necessary human In addition to any Director joining the Board after the previous resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
AGM, the Companys Articles require that one third of the Board retires by rotation at each AGM.
The Articles also v Information and professional development require that any Director not otherwise covered by these The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Directors requirements must retire at the AGM three years after his receive accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and appointment or last reappointment.
At the AGM to be held committee papers being issued in advance of meetings by the on 8 July 2004 David Rough and Gary Hughes will retire Company Secretary.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the by rotation under Articles 83 and 84 and will both offer Chairman maintains regular contact with the Chief Executive themselves for reappointment.
Pierre Danon, who was appointed and the other Directors to discuss specific issues.
The Chief by the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 22 April 2004, Executive takes responsibility for ensuring frequent contact will offer himself for reappointment as a Non-Executive Director between the Directors and senior management of the in accordance with Article 82.
Biographical details of all Companys operating divisions.
The operating divisions senior Directors can be found on pages 28 and 29.
Following a formal management teams present to the Board on a regular basis performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that David Rough and a series of opportunities exists throughout the year continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to for informal contact.
Directors are free to meet individual his roles as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the members of the senior management team and have done Remuneration Committee and his reappointment to the Board so during the year under review.
Throughout the year, is recommended to shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to attend any number of Emap events, exhibitions and awards.
c Board committees i The Nomination Committee The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its Composition: Adam Broadbent Chairman, Karen Jones, particular Directors, the identification of general training needs Andrew Harrison and David Rough were members of the is best left to the individuals discretion.
If any particular requirement Nomination Committee throughout the year.
With the exception is identified through the Boards formal appraisal processes of Adam Broadbent, all are considered independent or by an individual Director, the Company makes the necessary Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
Role: The Nomination Committees primary purpose is to The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board maintain the balance and effectiveness of the Board, identifying on matters concerning governance and he ensures Board those skills needed and the individuals who might best perform procedures are complied with.
All Directors have access them.
The Committee monitors the Board structure, size and to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors to take composition and it leads the process for nominating individuals independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
for election to the Board see b iv above.
The terms of No such advice was sought during the year.
The appointment reference of the Committee, which are set by the Board, are and removal of the Company Secretary and his remuneration available on request from the Company Secretary and can be are matters for the Board as a whole.
viewed on the Companys website at www.
In making appointments, the Committee considers the capabilities required vi Performance evaluation from potential candidates such as an individuals independence A formal appraisal process for the Board and its principal of mind and, where a non-executive appointment is being made, committees was initiated during the year, facilitated by the the time available to fulfil the role.
The Committee always uses Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary.
professional, independent external search consultants when This process will, in future, be repeated annually.
The evaluation making Non-Executive Director appointments.
covered an assessment of the following: the role of the Board: effectiveness: relationships and communication: The Committee also formally reviews the contribution of Directors structure and processes: and development.
Each Director who are offering themselves for reappointment and makes is subject to formal appraisal prior to his being proposed recommendations to the Board as to whether such Directors for re-election by shareholders.
Each Director is also subject should be put forward for reappointment by shareholders.
to a formal appraisal at the completion of his first year of service.
In addition, all Directors are subject to informal ii The Remuneration Committee appraisal by the Chairman where necessary.
Composition: David Rough Chairman, Karen Jones, Andrew Harrison and Adam Broadbent were all members As a consequence, each of the Non-Executive Directors and the of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
With the Chairman were individually appraised during the last year and exception of Adam Broadbent, all of the Committees members David Rough and Gary Hughes have been given appraisals are considered independent Non-Executive Directors as of their performances as Directors ahead of this years AGM.
The results of the Non-Executive Directors appraisals were conveyed to each individual by the Chairman and, in his case, Role: The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee by the Senior Independent Director.
the authority to determine the Chairmans remuneration.
36 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report and corporate governance continued Directors report and corporate governance continued Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 37 The Committee also sets the basic pay and performance-related The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other awards of the Executive Directors under the Groups incentive senior management attend Audit Committee meetings at the plans.
Each of these tasks is effected within the framework set invitation of the Chairman but the Committee also meets with out in the Remuneration Report on page 40, where the work the Companys auditors in the absence of management on of the Committee is also more fully described.
The terms of a regular basis.
reference of the Committee, which are set by the Board, are available on request from the Company Secretary and can be Role: The Committee, which meets at least three times a viewed on the Companys website www.
year, has formal terms of reference, which are available from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website iii The Treasury Committee www.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring The Board delegates various operational matters relating to the integrity of the Companys financial statements: reviewing banking and treasury issues to the Treasury Committee, which internal financial controls and internal control and risk management is comprised of two Executive and two Non-Executive Directors.
systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the These operational matters are clearly defined in the Groups Companys internal audit function: making recommendations to treasury policies, which are regularly reviewed by the Board the Board concerning the appointment of the Groups external and included in the Board Manual.
The Committees terms of auditor including its remuneration and terms of engagement : reference, which are set by the Board, are available on request reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence: from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website and implementing the Companys policy on the engagement www.
Matters delegated include debt funding, of the Companys auditors to perform non-audit work.
investment, hedging and banking arrangements.
Auditor independence: The Committee monitors the Companys d Accountability and audit safeguards against compromising the external auditors objectivity i Financial reporting and independence by performing an annual review of non-audit a Directors responsibilities for the preparation services provided to the Group and their cost: reviewing whether of financial statements the auditors believe there are any relationships that may affect The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for their independence: and obtaining written confirmation from the each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state auditors that they are independent.
of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or For the year ended 31 March 2004, the Committee has advised losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors the Board that the current level and nature of non-audit services confirm that appropriate accounting policies have been used and provided by the Companys auditors which are fully disclosed applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements in Note 4 on page 59 do not affect their independence and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial and objectivity.
statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Directors also confirm that the financial statements have been properly Policy on the provision of non-audit services by auditors: During prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys procedures for and all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
maintaining and safeguarding the independence of the Companys The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate external auditor and adopted a formal policy concerning the accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the provision of non-audit services.
The policy established three Company and the Group and the investment of shareholders.
categories of accounting services: those which the Companys They also take reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud auditors continue to provide such as interim accounts reporting : and other irregularities.
those that the Companys auditors are prohibited from providing such as acquisition due diligence : and potential services such The Annual Report, together with other financial information, as the provision of accounting opinions which the Companys presentations and announcements, is available on the Groups auditors may provide given particular circumstances and subject website www.
The maintenance and integrity to additional approval procedures.
of the Emap plc website is the responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and Having identified these categories, the Company conducted dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation a formal tender process to appoint preferred suppliers for in other jurisdictions.
each of the prohibited services and a number of the potential services.
Following this tender process, Ernst & Young LLP b Going concern basis were appointed as Emaps preferred provider of transaction The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group support for acquisitions and due diligence and post-acquisition have adequate resources to continue in operational existence balance sheet reviews.
Internal audit, forensic accounting and for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt investigation services were also awarded to Ernst & Young LLP the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
and the Companys auditor is now prohibited from providing these services.
ii Audit Committee and auditors Composition: Andrew Harrison Chairman, Adam Broadbent, Deloitte have, during the year, been appointed to provide Karen Jones and David Rough were members of the Committee executive remuneration consultancy and the Company maintains throughout the year.
With the exception of Adam Broadbent, an independent panel of legal advisers, the Companys auditor all are considered independent Non-Executive Directors as being prevented from providing either service.
The Companys prescribed by the Code.
The Board is satisfied that the auditor is also prohibited from providing human resource Committee Chairman holds appropriate recent and relevant services and information technology-related work, with financial experience to fulfil his duties.
each project awarded in these disciplines now the subject Directors report and corporate governance continued of ad hoc review by the Audit Committee and a formal tender regular reviews of both forward looking and historic key process where the project value is above 100,000. performance indicators: Provision of potential services by the Groups auditors will provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, also be the subject of ongoing review and monitoring by the timely information based on solid management information Audit Committee but the mandate to provide one such service, systems which are continually being improved and updated: tax advice, was awarded to  LLP PwC following a rigorous and formal tender process.
As PwC is also monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive, the Companys auditor, the Committee has introduced further the Finance Director and the Executive Board members: and safeguards and controls by pre-approving set levels of fee expenditure above which the engagement of PwC for further taxformal arrangements for staff to raise, in confidence, any related work has to be referred back to it on a case-by-case basis.
concerns over financial reporting and other matters.
Systems of internal control: The Board has delegated The internal control environment will continue to be monitored responsibility for reviewing the Groups system of internal and reviewed by the Committee which will, where necessary, control and for regularly monitoring its effectiveness to the ensure improvements are implemented.
The control system is intended to manage are not treated as part of the Group for the purposes of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups internal control review.
strategic objectives and any such system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Internal audit: During the year, the Company made a new misstatement or loss.
The Board and the Audit Committee senior management appointment by recruiting a Head of have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, Internal Audit from outside Emap.
This appointment will further including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk strengthen the Groups risk review procedures and ensure the management in accordance with the Code for the period from Audit Committee has additional resource available to it to 1 April 2003 to the date of approval of the Annual Report discharge its duties.
The Committee receives detailed reports and Accounts.
from the Head of Internal Audit which identify any significant risk and compliance issues and management plans in place to The Company operates a continuous process of identifying, address them.
The Committee reviews the scope and activities evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces of the internal audit function to ensure they are appropriate to which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date the key risks facing the Group and sufficient to assess the of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process, effectiveness and adequacy of the Groups material operational which complies with the requirements of the Internal Control: and financial controls, systems and practices.
The internal audit Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, includes the function assists the Committee in meeting its governance and following controls: regulatory responsibilities and assists management by enhancing the control environment.
defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation of authority: e Relations with shareholders i Dialogue with institutional shareholders formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear Under the guidance of the Group Communications Director, guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: communication with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained through a programme of one-on-one clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial meetings, presentations and news releases.
To support this management for the maintenance of good financial controls process, the Chairman has written to the Groups major and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely shareholders inviting them to meetings with him and the Senior financial management information: Independent Director should they want.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also attend the Companys the control of key financial risks through clear authorisation half-yearly presentations of results to the investment community.
levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: This communications programme is designed to ensure a thorough understanding by the investment community of the a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment of the principal Groups business, its key performance indicators and the financial controls across business units, with the evaluation Groups strategy.
of risk forming an integral part of this assessment: The Board places importance on understanding shareholder a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an views and messages and believes the best way to achieve this annual budget approved by the Board: review of monthly is through independent, unattributed feedback, which is provided variances against budget at title, Company, Divisional and Group by the Companys brokers.
The feedback provided to the Board levels with, where necessary, corrective action supplemented details key analyst and shareholder meetings and ensures by quarterly forecasting of annual performance: shareholders views and messages are clearly understood and communicated, unedited, to the Board as a whole.
The Board a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment, for the additionally welcomes and encourages the participation of all evaluation of the effectiveness of procedures and controls shareholders at the Companys AGM.
in relation to compliance risk: The Annual Report, together with other financial information, production of operational risk registers reviewed six-monthly presentations and announcements, is available on the Groups with Divisional Chief Executives: website www.
38 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report and corporate governance continued Directors report and corporate governance continued Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 39 Directors interests it complies with all the Code provisions concerning constructive A statement of Directors interests in the ordinary share capital use of its AGM.
of the Company appears in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is Auditors open to inspection at the Companys registered office, contains Following a recommendation of the Audit Committee to the full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe Board, a resolution to reappoint  LLP for shares.
In the year, no Director had any interest in any other as auditors to the Company will be put to the shareholders share capital of the Company or any other Group company, at the AGM.
The resolution to appoint  nor did any Director have a material interest in any contract LLP will propose that they hold office until the conclusion of of significance to the Group.
the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company at a level of remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
Donations Charitable donations of the Group in the year amounted to Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2004.
Details of the wide and varied community and charitable involvement of the Groups companies can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility review on pages 31 to 33.
Employees Nick Folland It is the Groups aim that recruitment, training, development Company Secretary and promotion should be determined solely on skill, ability and other requirements relevant to a job and in accordance with the laws of the country concerned.
Disabled people are given the same consideration as others and, depending on their skills and abilities, will enjoy the same training, development and prospects as other staff.
Staff who become disabled during their employment with Emap will be retained wherever possible and encouraged to develop their careers.
Further information in respect of employee involvement and the workplace in general can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility review on page 32.
Creditor payment policy The Company recognises the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers.
It is the Companys policy that payment is made on time, provided suppliers perform in accordance with agreed terms.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 8 days 2003 31 days of purchases.
Substantial shareholdings As at 18 May 2004, the Company had received the following notifications from financial institutions under Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of their own interests in 3% or more of the Groups ordinary share capital: % of share Shares capital Barclays plc 28,571,785 11.13 Fidelity Investments 7,940,616 3.10 Aviva plc 7,772,737 3.03 Legal & General 7,737,919 3.01 Special business at the Annual General Meeting At the 57th AGM of the Company, to be held at the Holiday Inn, Coram Street, London, WC1N 1HT, a number of resolutions will be proposed other than in the normal course of business.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which is in the circular enclosed with the Annual Report and includes a letter from the Chairman explaining the Special Business to be transacted.
In July 2003, shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 25.64 million Ordinary Shares.
This authority was still valid as at 31 March 2004 and will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 8 July 2004.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
