Corporate governance EMI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
In recent years, and as explained in previous Annual Reports, The Board considers that the Company has complied the Board has concluded that EMI has been best served by throughout the year with the Code Provisions set out in the CEOs of the recorded music and music publishing section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Committee businesses reporting to an executive chairman who on Corporate Governance in June 1998 the Code, apart complements their music industry experience and expertise.
from that relating to the length of Directors service contracts, The Board has further concluded that the interposition of which is discussed in the Remuneration Report on pages another senior executive over the business CEOs would lead 33 and 34. to unnecessary duplication and diffusion of responsibility.
Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed the Companys statement The Board considers that, for the present, the structure as to its compliance with the Code, in so far as it relates outlined above is the most effective for EMI and is in the best to those parts of the Code which the UK Listing Authority interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
specifies for review by the external auditor, and its report Furthermore, the Board considers that the nature and level is set out on page 41. of matters reserved for decision, either to the Board as a whole or to standing committees of the Board, appropriately The Code has been revised for reporting years which limit the authority of the Chairman and reflect the combination began on or after 1 November 2003.
Therefore, the first of the posts of chairman and chief executive officer in one of the Companys reporting years that will be subject to person.
the provisions of the revised Code is that which began on 1 April 2004 and next years Annual Report will It is the Boards policy that, so long as the Chairman is also report on compliance with the revised requirements.
the chief executive officer of the Company, the independent Non-executive Directors should comprise a numerical The remainder of this section, together with the majority of the Board and that the senior independent NonRemuneration Report, provides an explanation of how executive Director should also be either sole or joint Deputy EMI applies the principles of good governance that are set Chairman.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2004, out in the Code as it applied throughout the year.
During the there were four Non-executive Directors from 1 April to 13 year, the Board has reviewed its governance procedures May 2003 when the number of Non-executive Directors in the light of the revised Code and this section, therefore, increased to five.
Sir Dominic Cadbury was the senior also includes steps already taken, or actions put in place, independent Non-executive Director until his retirement on 28 to achieve compliance with the revised requirements.
February 2004, when he was replaced by John Gildersleeve.
The Board Eric Nicolis significant commitments during the year, other As at 31 March 2004, the Board of EMI Group plc comprised than EMI, were the chairmanships of HMV Group plc HMV four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
and of The Tussauds Group Limited, a private company.
He Following the appointment of Sly Bailey on 2 April 2004, became chairman of HMV prior to its flotation, when EMI held the number of Non-executive Directors has increased to a significant equity interest, and resigned his directorship six.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to on 2 February 2004 following HMVs successful flotation and be independent of management and free from any business EMIs subsequent disposal of its remaining equity interest or other relationship that could materially interfere with the in HMV.
exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that this includes Dr Harald Einsmann who, The Board as a whole considers the appointment of Directors having been a Non-executive Director since 1992, will retire and executive appointments within the Board, based on as a Director at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee will review annually Articles of Association include a requirement that all Directors whether the Non-executive Directors remain independent should submit themselves for election by the shareholders against the criteria set out in the revised Code.
As reflected at the AGM immediately following their appointment and for in their biographies, which appear on pages 21 and 22, the re-election at least once every three years thereafter.
Directors have a wide and balanced range of experience in multinational and consumer-orientated businesses, as well The Board meets at least seven times each year, with as an appropriately international spread.
additional meetings or contact between meetings as necessary.
The programme for each year is approved by the Eric Nicoli is executive Chairman of the Company, which Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy incorporates the role of chief executive officer.
Day-to-day together with the operations and results of the two main executive responsibility for the running of the Companys two business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets and main businesses lies with Alain Levy, as Chairman and Chief regular presentations on key business developments, major Executive Officer, EMI Music, and Martin Bandier, as projects and strategic issues.
Actual results for the Group and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, EMI Music Publishing, individual business units are reported to all Directors each who each report to Eric Nicoli.
At least once each year the Board meets outside the UK to allow closer contact with local management.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, the Board met nine times, including a strategy review as part of its October meeting in New York.
24 These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc The Executive Directors are permitted to take external reports, aim to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely appointments as non-executive directors but usually only manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge one such appointment may be of another publicly-quoted of its duties.
They may retain the remuneration from such appointments.
All appointments must be approved by the The Boards programme also includes management Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts development and succession planning, reviews of the of interest.
effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees, and an assessment of the performance of the Executive The attendance by individual Directors at scheduled and ad and Non-executive Directors conducted by the Chairman hoc meetings of the Board and its Committees in the financial and the Non-executive Deputy Chairman.
The review of the year ended 31 March 2004 was as follows: Chairmans performance is led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent Non-executive Director.
Additionally, Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive the Boards programme provides for two meetings a year between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, E L Nicoli 9 9 4 5 3 3 14 15 as well as a meeting of the Non-executive Directors alone.
M N Bandier 8 9 n a n a n a 12 15 A M J I Levy 7 9 1 1 n a 13 15 During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its R C Faxon 9 9 4 n a n a 12 15 a principal committees was assessed through separate Sir Dominic Cadbury 6 8 2 4 4 4 1 2 n a b interviews with each Director conducted by the Chairman J Gildersleeve 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 n a and the Company Secretary.
The results were then presented H Einsmann 7 9 4 4 2 5 2 3 n a to the Board by the Company Secretary and, following P A Georgescu 9 9 4 4 4 5 3 3 n a c discussion by the Board, agreed changes were implemented.
D J Londoner 8 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 n a A similar process was applied in respect of the Audit K A ODonovan 8 9 4 4 4 5 2 3 n a Committee during the year, with interviews with Committee members, regular management attendees and the external Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could auditor being conducted by the Company Secretary and the have attended.
Group Financial Controller based on discussion points which Not Committee members, but invited to attend all or part of the number had previously been approved by the Committees chairman.
Similar processes will be applied to the Remuneration and a Retired on 28 February 2004.
Nomination Committees during the current year.
b Appointed on 28 February 2004. c Appointed on 13 May 2003.
Tailored induction programmes are provided for new Directors.
In addition to briefings by the Chairman, Company Board committees Secretary and Chief Financial Officer, meetings are arranged The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, with a range of corporate and business executives.
Remuneration, Nomination and Executive Committees.
Inductions also now include modular sessions covering Reflecting the important role played by the independent topics such as key financial and other characteristics of, Non-executive Directors in ensuring high standards of and operating risks faced by, the recorded music and music corporate governance, all the Non-executive Directors publishing businesses.
The Board has also instituted are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination a programme of ongoing professional development Committees.
Each committee has written terms of reference and levels of authority which have been amended so as to ensure The Board has delegated certain matters to standing compliance with the revised Code: these can be viewed committees, details of which are set out below.
However, on the Groups website, www.
com, or obtained to ensure its overall control of the Companys affairs, the on request from the Company Secretary.
Except in the case Board has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
of the Remuneration Committee, minutes of meetings are These include the Groups strategic plans and annual operating budgets, significant acquisitions or disposals of circulated to all Directors.
companies, businesses or assets, and significant contractual commitments or items of expenditure, together with policies Remuneration Committee the role of the Remuneration relating to the Groups treasury function, pensions, major Committee, which is chaired by John Gildersleeve, is litigation, employee share schemes, and environmental and described on page 29.
It meets at least three times each ethical issues.
The Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 40 gives information about the Directors remuneration.
All Directors have access to the services and advice of the Company Secretary, who is appointed by, and may only be removed by, the Board.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, through the Chairman.
There are also procedures for Directors, in appropriate circumstances, to obtain independent professional advice at the cost of the Company.
25 Corporate governance Continued The main responsibilities and procedures of the other three Each year the Committee reviews the independence and principal Committees are as follows: objectivity of the external auditor with a view to confirming that, in its opinion, the maintenance of objectivity on the one Audit Committee chaired by Kathleen ODonovan and hand, and value for money on the other, have been kept comprising all the independent Non-executive Directors.
During the past year, the Committee The Committee meets four times each year, and its meetings approved a detailed and formal policy regarding the provision are normally attended by the Executive Chairman, the Chief of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Services for Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the external which the external auditor may be considered under this auditor and the Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, the policy include supporting and reporting on financial Company Secretary and Group General Counsel attends representations in public documentation and general advice in his capacity as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee on accounting and financial-reporting matters.
Services for has separate meetings with both the external auditor at least which the external auditor may not be engaged include tax twice each year and the Head of Internal Audit at least once planning advice, employee tax services and consulting each year without the presence of Executive Directors or services.
Following each meeting, the Committee chairman reports to the Board any matter of particular Further details of the Committees role in relation to the importance.
annual assessment of the Groups internal control framework are set out below.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, and where necessary to obtain external Nomination Committee chaired by John Gildersleeve and legal or other independent professional advice.
The comprising all the Non-executive Directors and the Committees responsibilities, which it has carried out during Chairman.
The Committee makes recommendations to the the year, include: Board on the appointment of Directors and the reappointment of Non-executive Directors on the expiry reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and of their three-year term of appointment.
The Committee is internal control and risk management systems, and also responsible for making recommendations to the Board assessing their effectiveness: regarding plans for succession for both Executive and Nonexecutive Directors.
making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment, removal and remuneration of the external The Committee has adopted a formal process for the making auditor, overseeing the Companys relations with the of recommendations regarding both the appointment of new external auditor and monitoring the external auditors Directors and the re-election of existing Directors.
This independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of involves an evaluation of the skills, knowledge and the audit process: experience on the Board, consideration of the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board and agreement of a reviewing the internal audit plan for the year, monitoring description of the role and capabilities required for an and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit anticipated new appointment.
The selection process is led function, ensuring appropriate co-ordination between by the Chairman in close consultation with the Non-executive internal audit and the external auditor and that the internal Deputy Chairman, and all Directors are offered the audit function is adequately resourced and has opportunity to meet the potential appointee before the appropriate standing, and approving the appointment Committee meets to discuss the proposed recommendation.
or termination of appointment of the head of the internal audit function: and, The Committee also reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and oversees the process for reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements, reviewing the effectiveness of the Board and its principal with particular reference to accounting policies, significant committees as well as the performance of individual estimates and financial reporting judgements and the Directors.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and otherwise The Committee adopts a formal programme for each year when required.
During the financial year ended 31 March which is structured to coincide with key events in the 2004, the Committee met three times.
It recommended: the Companys financial reporting cycle, and also includes other appointment of John Gildersleeve, to replace Sir Dominic regular items, for example: review of the Committees own Cadbury as Non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior effectiveness and that of the internal audit function: a independent Non-executive Director: the appointment of continuing programme of post-investment reviews: the Sly Bailey as an additional Non-executive Director: and the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services by reappointments of Kathleen ODonovan for a further threethe external auditor: review of material litigation to which the year term and of Harald Einsmann until his retirement at the Group is party: reviews of treasury policies and the Groups conclusion of the 2004 AGM.
An external search agency main pension plans: and review and supervision of the was engaged in connection with the appointments of Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
In addition, the both new Directors.
Committees programme currently includes regular reports on the Groups preparations to implement International Financial Reporting Standards.
26 Executive Committee chaired by the Chairman and Internal control comprising the chief executive officers of the Companys The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal two main businesses, together with the Chief Financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee is responsible for the approval of internal control is based on what the Board considers to be acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and appropriate to the Groups activities, to the materiality of the contractual commitments below the level that the Board financial and other risks inherent in those activities and to the has reserved to itself for decision, and for certain operational, relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
administrative and other routine matters.
It is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, provides The Committee also regularly reviews and reports to the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Board on the performance of the Groups businesses.
Committee meets at least eleven times each year and senior Group executives frequently attend meetings by invitation.
The full Board meets regularly throughout the year and the matters specifically reserved for its approval ensure that the Directors responsibilities Directors maintain control over significant strategic, financial UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and compliance matters.
statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as The Group has an established organisational structure with well as the profit or loss and cashflows of the Group for that clearly defined lines of responsibility and reporting.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors has devolved to executive management responsibility for are required to: implementing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control.
Each business unit operates in accordance with select suitable accounting policies and then apply them policies and procedures applicable to all of the Groups units.
consistently: The Group operates comprehensive annual planning, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and financial reporting and forecasting processes.
The Board prudent: and, formally approves strategic plans and annual budgets.
The Groups performance is monitored against budget on state whether applicable accounting standards have been a monthly basis and all significant variances are investigated.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed There are defined authorisation procedures in respect of and explained in the financial statements.
certain matters, including capital expenditure, investments, the granting of guarantees and the use of financial The Directors confirm that they have complied with these instruments.
The Audit Committee also receives, twice yearly, requirements in preparing the financial statements on pages a review of all material litigation undertaken by or against the 42 to 70.
Groups companies and considers the associated risks.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The strength of an internal control system is dependent records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any on the quality and integrity of management and staff.
Those time, the financial position of the Group and enable them at senior levels are informed about their responsibilities as to ensure that the financial statements comply with the to the maintenance of sound systems of internal control.
They are also responsible for A routine Group-wide process, which requires key safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking executives and managers to certify their compliance with reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the Groups policies and procedures, reinforces this integrity.
The internal audit function operates as one Group-wide Going concern department which monitors and supports the internal control The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they system and reports both to the Audit Committee and the consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate Groups senior management.
The responsibilities of the resources to continue in operational existence for the internal audit function include recommending improvements foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the in the control environment and ensuring compliance with the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Audit Committee reviews the risk assessment and audit plan prepared by the Internal Audit Department.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the requirements of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
27 Corporate governance Continued During the year to 31 March 2004, significant potential risks Investor relations facing the Group have been assessed and graded in a The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue process involving line and functional management with investors.
The Chairman and Executive Directors have throughout the Group and internal audit.
The controls in place held, and will continue to hold, discussions with institutional to manage or mitigate each risk were reviewed for adequacy, shareholders and analysts.
The senior independent Nonand the processes to monitor and inform the Board about executive Director is also available to meet investors, if so control performance were confirmed.
In addition, there are general presentations to investors and analysts after the announcement of the halfThis assessment is overseen and supervised by the Group year and annual results and, from time to time, more tailored Risk Management Steering Committee, which is chaired by presentations on specific areas of importance.
These the Chief Financial Officer and includes as members the chief presentations are simultaneously webcast.
financial officers of the two operating businesses, as well as the heads of relevant central functions.
The assessment is Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the reviewed by the Audit Committee and is repeated annually.
Chairman and other Directors at the AGM and can meet them The risk and control assessment is also shared with senior informally after the AGM.
Results announcements and other management throughout the Group.
press releases are made available on the Groups website as soon as possible after their publication.
The Board is aware of the disclosure guidelines on social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers, Actions taken to develop an understanding amongst and a specific update on social, ethical and environmental Directors of the views of major shareholders about the Group SEE issues is part of the Boards annual programme going include reports to the Board on investor relations which are forward.
Annual performance in these areas is already supplemented by more detailed reviews twice each year by monitored and publicly disclosed through the Groups Social the Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, supported Responsibility reporting programme.
As part of the annual by the Companys brokers.
risk review process and the presentation of those results to the Board, account is taken of any issues arising from SEE matters that could cause risk to value - no significant risks were identified this year.
Work has also been commissioned to improve the visibility of SEE matters in the risk-capture process.
Appropriate SEE matters are included in the induction programme for Non-executive Directors.
The Group has in place a social responsibility policy as well as specific ethics and environmental policies.
The ethics policy Standards of Business Conduct was revised and reissued this year: compliance is monitored by means of self-certification by senior and middle management and through checks by the Internal Audit Department.
A Social Responsibility Report is published annually.
The Audit Committee receives additional assurance on the operation of internal control systems around the Group, primarily from internal audit, which presents the conclusions of its reviews twice a year.
The external auditor also takes internal financial control into consideration as part of its audit.
In addition, incidences of control failure and the internal control implications of significant business issues are recorded in a central Control Issues Register, from which a summary report is prepared for the Audit Committee.
A report is also prepared for distribution to senior management throughout the Group and appropriate actions are taken to rectify any control failures.
Any significant new issues and material changes to the risk environment are reported at the next Board meeting.
