27 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Corporate governance The Combined Code meetings.
Briefing papers are circulated in advance of planned meetings.
During the year, non-executive members of the The Board is accountable to shareholders for the running of Board visited several Group sites and relevant trade shows.
the Company and continues to aspire to high standards of Newly appointed Directors receive a full, formal and tailored corporate governance.
induction programme which was upgraded during the period.
The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of The programme includes a pack of Board papers and minutes of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code recent meetings, analysts reports on the Company, a description of Best Practice issued in June 1998 the Code as detailed of the Boards operations, the most recently adopted Long Range herein.
The Company is required to comply with the revised Plan and budget and a guide to the role and duties of a Director.
Code published in July 2003 with effect from its financial year A formal procedure is in place to enable Directors, in the ending in September 2005.
However, as this report shows, the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Company has already taken many steps towards compliance advice, if necessary, under the guidance of the Company and the Boards aim and expectation is to be able to report Secretary and at the Companys expense.
Should a Director that we meet the requirements of the revised Code next year.
have any concerns about a particular issue, such concerns Whilst formal compliance is important, the Boards overall will be recorded in the minutes of the relevant Board meeting.
approach is to be guided by and observe the spirit of the Code.
Should he choose to resign over such a matter, the concerns would be communicated to the other Directors.
All Directors have The Board and Committees the opportunity to undertake relevant training, receive appropriate Board balance Composition of the Board is balanced, with a UK and US journals relevant to Board members and have full non-executive Chairman, four additional non-executive Directors and timely access to relevant information and the advice and and three executive Directors.
The Board has determined services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive Directors that each non-executive Director including the Chairman is met without executive Directors present on five occasions independent.
During the period, Waldemar Schmidt succeeded during the period.
Eryl Morris as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board Board performance evaluation An evaluation of the Boards and has agreed a written statement setting out the division of the the Chairmans performance was led by the Senior Independent responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Director in October 2004.
As this was the first time such an Officer.
Broadly the Chairman is responsible for the management exercise had been undertaken by him and there are several of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the relatively recent appointees to the Board, it was determined by management of the Groups business and operations.
The Board the Board that this was best undertaken by means of circulating does not intend that its Chief Executive should become Chairman a questionnaire for completion by all Directors.
It was also of the Company.
The Directors biographies, which are set out on determined that it would be premature to make an individual page 24, demonstrate a range of business backgrounds and evaluation of each Director other than the Chairman and international experience.
that outside involvement was not appropriate at this stage.
Re-election All non-executive Directors except for Peter Brooks The outcome was discussed by the Board at its November 2004 and Waldemar Schmidt have been appointed for an initial term of meeting and the next steps agreed.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders Appointments Appointments to the Board are reviewed by the at the first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election Board as a whole with a Nomination Committee established thereafter by rotation at least every three years in accordance to undertake the search process and recommend candidates with the Companys Articles of Association.
Peter Brooks and to the Board as necessary.
That Committee, now comprising Waldemar Schmidt were appointed for an initial term of five years.
Peter Brooks Chairman, Waldemar Schmidt and Joseph Ross, The names of the Directors submitted for re-election, and reasons met formally on two occasions during the period.
David McCulloch why the Board believes they should be re-elected, are detailed in was a member of the Committee until 22 September 2004 when the Directors report on page 25 and biographical details for each he was replaced by Joseph Ross.
There was full attendance at one of them appear on page 24. of the meetings, but Mr Schmidt was unable to attend the other Board procedures and supportThe Board considers, as meeting.
Informal dialogue has also been maintained by the confirmed by the performance evaluation referred to below, that members during the period to discuss the process for selecting it provides effective leadership and control of the Group.
It has new non-executive Directors.
For each of the non-executive a formal schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, Director appointments during the period, a search consultancy including Group strategy and performance, acquisitions and was engaged to develop a shortlist of suitable candidates from disposals, major capital projects, Board appointments and dividend which selections were made by the Board.
The terms of reference recommendation.
This schedule was updated shortly after the of the Nomination Committee are available for inspection on the period end.
The Board met nine times during the period including Companys website.
meetings by telephone and all Directors were present at each meeting.
It maintains a dialogue as needed between formal 28 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Corporate governance Relationships with shareholders and understanding Going concern their viewsThere is an agreed allocation of responsibilities for The Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to regular executive Director and senior executives communication continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, with institutional investors and analysts in both the UK and they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing USA.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the accounts.
other senior corporate executives have made a number of structured presentations to major shareholders following results Internal control announcements.
Feedback from these presentations is reported IntroductionThe Board has established procedures to implement to other members of the Board.
In addition, quarterly analyses the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on of shareholders are prepared by the Companys brokers and the Combined Code.
These procedures, which are subject to distributed to the Board.
During the period, the Chairman wrote regular review, provide an ongoing process designed to identify, to a number of the Companys larger shareholders to confirm evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
the Companys concern to ensure that communications with shareholders were satisfactory, as the Board believes them to be, ResponsibilityThe Board has overall responsibility for the system and that he and the Senior Independent Director were available of internal control.
A sound system of internal control is designed at any time, in the event of their wishing to discuss any matters to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve regarding the Company.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Annual General Meeting provides an excellent opportunity for private shareholders to question the Board and discuss issues with Control structureThere is a defined operating structure for executive management after the meeting.
the Group with clear lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Regional operations boards, comprising relevant senior executives, Audit CommitteeThe Committees Chairman is Michael have responsibility amongst other things for co-ordination of Arrowsmith, who sits together with Michael Cronk, and Group strategy and risk management.
The Groups organisational Joseph Ross, who joined the Audit Committee on 5 May 2004. structure is relatively flat, assisting close control, fast information Peter Brooks was a member of the Audit Committee until flow and responsiveness.
A comprehensive induction programme has been prepared for new members of the Committee.
At all times, Written policies and procedures are in place which define the limits the Committee must comprise only non-executive Directors and of delegated authority and provide a framework for management shall normally consist of not less than three members.
The Board to deal with areas of significant business risk.
These policies and is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, a Fellow of the Council procedures are regularly reviewed and, where necessary, updated.
of Management Accountants, has recent and relevant financial The Board has established a Treasury Operating Committee which experience.
It met five times during the period, with all members oversees the operation of the Group treasury function and sets present at each meeting.
Other Directors and executives may appropriate limits to mitigate treasury risk.
When reviewing the attend by invitation.
Group annual operating plan and three year long-term plan, the The Audit Committee monitors accounting policies and financial Board assesses those risks identified as being the most significant reporting, and reviews the quarterly and annual accounts before for the Group, their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence they are presented to the Board.
It also has primary responsibility and the control procedures put in place to mitigate those risks.
for the relationship with the external auditors, keeps under review Prior to publishing its quarterly and annual results, management the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, obtains representation letters from all business units confirming and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, taking into complete disclosure and compliance with internal and external account where necessary any non-audit services provided to the requirements.
In addition, prior to publishing its US annual results Group by the auditors.
A policy for pre-approving such services has the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer certify been adopted by the Audit Committee to comply with regulations as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
designed to ensure the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Audit Committee also has primary responsibility for making Control environment The Groups operating procedures include a a recommendation to shareholders on the appointment and comprehensive system for reporting information to the Directors removal of the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the which is adjusted as necessary.
Audit Committee are available for inspection on the Companys Budgets are prepared by operating company management and website.
They were amended during the period towards subject to review by both Group management and the Directors.
compliance with the 2003 Code by introducing additional Forecasts are revised during the year and compared against budget.
responsibilities, including reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the audit process and the Companys When setting budgets and forecasts management identifies, internal control and risk management systems.
evaluates and reports on potential significant business risks.
Remuneration Committee Details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
29 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Corporate governance Monthly reports of operating performance, with commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year, are prepared at operational and Group levels.
Key performance indicators are monitored by the Board.
The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial implications of the acquisition and key performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place of the key assumptions made in the acquisition case.
Post investment appraisals of the Groups investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
A treasury report, with details of borrowings and investments, is distributed to corporate management on a weekly basis.
The Audit Committee reviews a quarterly report detailing any significant legal actions faced by Group companies.
Monitoring and review activities There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
The Audit Committee periodically receives and reviews reports on internal controls from the external auditors and a formal annual self assessment is provided by the presidents and controllers of each Group company detailing the operation of their control systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
A survey is prepared of employees views and opinions on a wide variety of risk management issues.
Regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board review the results of such reports and assessment taking action as appropriate.
Group risk management issues are reviewed by a Group Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprising operational and corporate representatives from across the Group.
In the case of internal financial controls, the Committee reports to the Audit Committee, including on all risk management matters.
Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on internal controls and relevant financial reporting matters are presented to the Audit Committee and management.
Where, as a result of these reviews, issues are identified in the internal control environment, prompt corrective actions are taken.
The Group has an internal audit function whose role includes assisting the Board discharge its responsibilities as regards internal control.
Review of effectivenessThe Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the monitoring process set out above for the period under review and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Compliance statement The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the Code throughout the accounting period.
The Company has complied throughout the accounting period ended 2 October 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except in respect of one provision in the employment agreement of David McCulloch, as explained on page 32.
