Corporate Governance Introduction Best practice in corporate governance will protect and promote the interests of stakeholders in the Company.
For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are as set out in the Combined Code published by the UK Listing Authority in 1998 the Combined Code.
"During 2003, reports by Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith resulted in the publication of a new Combined Code the ""New Combined Code"" taking effect for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003."
Although this does not apply to the Company until the financial year 2004 05, we have during the period under review put in place governance structures to comply with the New Combined Code that are appropriate to the Company and the business it operates.
The Company is committed to the high standards of corporate governance set out in the New Combined Code provisions as adopted by the UK Listing Authority, the Turnbull Report on Internal Control and appropriate best practice guidance issued by investor bodies.
This report sets out the steps the Company has taken to bring it into compliance with the New Combined Code.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code and the New Combined Code The Company has been in full compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Additionally, the Board took steps to ensure compliance with the New Combined Code such that by the end of the period under review the Company is in full compliance with the New Combined Code with the exception of provision A.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise nonexecutive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board therefore reviewed its composition having regard to the Companys individual circumstances, its size and complexity and the risks and challenges it faces.
The Board recognised that Enterprise owns a substantial freehold estate of licensed property, its principal income being the rent payable by licensees and the wholesale profit on the beer and cider supplied to them.
Its business model is a simple one and the commercial arrangements with its licensee partners have been upheld in both UK and European Courts and by the UK Competition Authorities.
The Groups Profit & Loss Account, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement are transparent and substantially all of the Companys licensed estate is independently valued each year.
Debt facilities are in place with a weighted average life to maturity of almost 14 years at a weighted average interest cost of 6.95%.
Cash flows are strong and stable.
The Company's strategy for building shareholder value, which is referred to in the Chairman's Statement, is well understood by investors and the management team are wholly commited to its delivery.
The Board concluded that a strong executive presence, currently numbering four directors, was important to its effectiveness and that three independent non-executive directors, in addition to the Chairman, would complete its composition, fully match the requirements of the business and ensure proper governance of the Group.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board Composition The Chairman, Mr H V Reid, has primary responsibility for running the Board and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
The Chief Executive, Mr G E Tuppen, has executive responsibilities for achieving operational and financial goals, results and for executing the Companys strategy.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
The written responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are available on the Companys website.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement.
As stated above, the Board currently considers that all of its non-executive directors meet this requirement.
The Board will continue to monitor the independence of the non-executive directors.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 17 Corporate Governance Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 2 and 3.
Operation of the Board The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to shareholders for its proper management.
It reviews trading performance, sets and monitors strategy and examines major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
The Board also delegates to management the detailed planning and implementation of policy in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board has established guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues.
Such matters include, for example, the approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, risk management and governance policies.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is set out and agreed in writing and is reviewed annually.
Meetings and attendance The Board meets at least six times per annum and convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are time critical.
In addition there is a separate meeting held annually to discuss and review strategy and future opportunities.
All directors attended all Board Meetings and the Strategic Review during the year with the exception of Mrs S E Murray who was appointed on 3 November 2004.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an independent judgement to the decision-making process at Board and Committee level.
Their role requires a time commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their duties.
The Company has appointed a Senior Independent Director whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The written responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are available on the Companys website.
During the year the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman.
In addition, and in compliance with the New Combined Code, all of the non-executives and the Chairman met without the executive directors being present to discuss amongst other matters the performance of the Chief Executive.
Information and training The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure concerning independent professional advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees and is responsible for advising the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
Following the appointment of new directors an appropriately tailored induction programme is arranged and the training needs of each director are regularly reviewed.
Retirement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide for one-third of the directors to be subject to reappointment every year.
The Board has determined that all directors are subject to reappointment at least every three years.
In addition, all directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders after their initial appointment.
Reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to formal review.
18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Board Committees The following Committees dealt with specific aspects of the Companys affairs: The Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Mr D A Harding and comprised, in addition, two other non-executive directors, Mr M F Garner and Mr A J Stewart.
In accordance with the New Combined Code, the Chairman resigned from the Committee during the year.
The Committee met three times during the year.
All Committee members attended each meeting.
The external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director were in attendance at part of each meeting by invitation.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the New Combined Code.
These are available on the Companys website.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
During the year and in accordance with the New Combined Code, the internal audit function met with the Committee to review internal audit procedures.
In addition, the Committee and Board approved a whistle blowing policy and procedure under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and in other matters.
The Nominations Committee During the year the Nominations Committee was chaired by Mr H V Reid and comprised, in addition, the Chief Executive and the three other non-executive directors, Mr M F Garner, Mr A J Stewart and Mr D A Harding.
It is responsible for proposing, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
The Committee met twice during the year during which all members were in attendance.
The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments, including that of Mrs S E Murray, comply with the principles set out in the New Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr A J Stewart and comprised, in addition, two other nonexecutive directors, Mr M F Garner and Mr D A Harding.
The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance related bonus schemes and the Chairmans fee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
The Committee met six times during the year during which all members were in attendance.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 19 Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the New Combined Code.
The report of the Remuneration Committee which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 23 to 30.
6 of the New Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The New Combined Code provides guidance on the process in the supporting principle to A.
6: for example, individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role and that the Chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses, if any, of the Board.
During the year the Company has internally undertaken a full performance evaluation programme in accordance with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including the Chairman.
This has been achieved by the following processes: Board performance evaluation The process was led by the Chairman and each director completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board at a Board meeting when all of the directors were present.
In summary, it was found that the Board works effectively and efficiently, is well informed and consists of a balanced group of widely experienced individuals who bring a variety of skills and knowledge to enable the performance and development of the Company to be effectively debated, reviewed and challenged.
In addition, it was felt that Board strategy effectively develops the business in an appropriate manner.
This enables the Board to fulfil its responsibilities to its stakeholders.
Board Committee performance evaluation For the Board Committee evaluation process each Committee Chairman and member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board.
In summary, it was found that the Committee Chairman and members are satisfied with the current committee structure, the frequency of meetings, that matters discussed and information provided work well and that the structure was not so formal that members felt restricted in procedural matters.
In addition, it was felt that the balance of members of each committee was right given the size and structure of the Company and working relationships between Board members Non-executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chairman and each non-executive director completed a self-appraisal questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each non-executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chairman to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Executive director performance evaluation This process was lead by the Chief Executive and each executive director completed a self-appraisal questionnaire and was asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chief Executive to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
In addition, the Chairman met with the non-executives without the executive directors present to discuss, amongst other matters, the performance of the Chief Executive.
Shareholder relations The Company has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors including direct face to face contact, presentations after the preliminary announcement for the year and the results for the half year and specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Companys brokers as necessary.
The Company uses the Annual General Meeting to encourage participation by private investors.
The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, provides the opportunity for a dialogue with private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the New Combined Code.
The Chairman ensures that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 20 January 2005 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 70 to 73.
The Notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy votes for and against are made available after the result of hand votes.
In accordance with the New Combined Code, the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed back to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
Information about the Company, including reports, announcements and presentations, is made available on our website.
The Company has offered all its shareholders the opportunity to register and receive shareholder communications, such as the report and accounts, the interim report and notices of meetings, electronically via the Internet rather than in paper form through the post in accordance with good investor practice.
This year the Company is, in accordance with the Myners Report, offering shareholders a facility for electronic proxy voting.
Finally, the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor queries on behalf of shareholders.
Internal control The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Internal control procedures have not altered significantly following the acquisition of Unique.
However, the internal audit function will be specifically examining any changes and considering the integration processes as part of their ongoing work.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 21 Corporate Governance The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors consideration.
The Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Documented and enforced policies and procedures.
Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post-investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004
