CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code on corporate governance is to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfill its part of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services duties.
A number of standing committees deal with Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors' specific aspects of the groups affairs, each of which Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 33 set out how operates within defined terms of reference.
the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
The company has substantially complied Non-executive directors with the Code, save for the exceptions disclosed in The non-executive directors bring both independent the directors compliance statement on page 20. views and the views of the companys major shareholders to the board.
The biographies of the non-executive Following publication of the Higgs and Smith reports directors can be found on pages 14 and 15 of the in January 2003, the Financial Reporting Council accounts.
At least once a year the company's chairman revised the Combined Code in July 2003.
Although meets the non-executive directors without the this revised code is not applicable to the company for executive directors being present.
the year under review, compliance involves modest changes since we already conform to most of the new The board considers JC Botts and JD Bolsver to be Code's provisions.
In reflecting our support for the independent non-executive directors.
Although governance reforms, we have included in this report JC Botts has been on the board since 1992, longer areas implemented under the new Combined Code than the recommended term of nine years under the this year and identified areas of non-compliance.
It is revised Code, the board believes that his length of the company's intention in so far as possible to comply service enhances his role as an independent director.
with all material aspects of the revised Code during JC Botts also holds a small number of options to the course of 2005. subscribe for common stock in Internet Securities, Inc. a subsidiary of the company.
However, the number of Directors options held by JC Botts is not material to him or to The board and its role the company.
Details of directors who served during the year are set out on pages 14 and 15.
The board comprises the The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding chairman, managing director, 12 other executive in the company through his beneficial holding in Daily directors and six non-executive directors.
Of the six Mail and General Trust plc and because of this he is non-executive directors, two are independent whilst not considered independent.
three are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
There are clear Sir Patrick Sergeant also has a significant shareholding divisions of responsibility within the board such that in the company and in addition has served on the board no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
in various roles since founding the company in 1969 The board although large does not consider itself and has been a non-executive director since 1992 to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have and hence, under the revised Code, is not considered representatives from all key areas of the business at independent.
There is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent The Viscount Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, and JP Williams professional advice, at the companys expense.
They are also executive directors of Daily Mail and General also have access to the advice and services of the Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
All directors submit themselves the company is run as a separate, distinct and for re-election at least once every three years.
Newly decentralised subsidiary of Daily Mail and General appointed directors are submitted for election at the Trust plc and these directors have no involvement in first available opportunity after their appointment.
the day-to-day management of the company.
They The board meets every two months and there is bring valuable experience and advice to the company frequent contact between meetings.
Board meetings but the board does not believe these non-executive take place in London and New York, and occasionally directors are able to exert undue influence on in other locations where the group has operations.
decisions taken by the board, nor does it consider The meetings are held to set and monitor strategy, to their independence to be impaired by their positions review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, with Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
However, this examine major acquisition possibilities and approve relationship with Daily Mail and General Trust plc reports to shareholders.
Procedures are established to means these directors do not meet the revised Code's ensure that appropriate information is communicated definition of independence.
16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Executive committee determining the contract terms, remuneration and The executive committee comprises the executive other benefits for executive directors, including directors and senior management.
It is chaired by performance related profit share schemes.
The the company's chairman and meets each month to committee also recommends and monitors the consider key operational issues.
remuneration strategy for the rest of the group.
The composition of the committee, details of directors Nominations committee remuneration and interests in share options, together The nominations committee is responsible for with information on directors service contracts, are set proposing candidates for appointment to the board out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 21 having regard to the balance of skills and structure to 33.
The committee's terms of reference are available of the board and ensuring the appointees have on the company's web site.
sufficient time available to devote to the role.
The committee meets when required and comprises the Audit committee chairman who is also chairman of the nominations Details of the members and role of the audit committee, managing director and three noncommittee are set out on page 19.
The committee's executive directors: Sir Patrick Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, terms of reference are available on the company's and JC Botts independent.
The committee's terms of web site.
reference are available on the company's web site.
Tax and Treasury committee Remuneration committee Details of the members and role of the tax and The remuneration committee meets twice a year treasury committee are set out on page 10. and additionally as required.
It is responsible for Board and committee meetings The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during 2004: Tax & Board Executive Remuneration Audit treasury meetings committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 6 11 3 2 2 Executive directors PM Fallon 6 11 2 PR Ensor 6 10 2 NF Osborn 6 11 DC Cohen 6 11 CR Brown 6 8 GB Strahan 5 10 E Bounous 6 10 CR Jones 6 10 2 RT Lamont 5 9 SM Brady 4 11 D Alfano 6 11 G Mueller 5 9 MJ Carroll 6 9 CHC Fordham 5 10 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 5 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 2 CJF Sinclair 5 3 JP Williams 5 2 1 JC Botts 6 3 2 JD Bolsover 5 3 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 17 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE continued Communication with shareholdersEach executive director has been given The company's chairman together with the board responsibility for specific aspects of the encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
groups affairs: Meetings are held, both in the US and UK, to discuss The board divides the groups key risks into annual and interim results and highlight significant six broad categories and reviews and assesses acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of each of these at least annually: institutional shareholders.
Private shareholders are The board seeks assurance that effective control encouraged to participate in the annual general meeting.
All shareholders have at least 20 working is being maintained through regular reports from business group management, the audit committee days notice of the annual general meeting at which directors and committee chairs are available for and various independent monitoring functions: and questioning.
The board approves the annual forecast Internal control and risk management after performing a review of key risk factors.
The board is responsible for the groups system of Performance is monitored regularly by way of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
variances and key performance indicators to Such a system is designed to manage rather than enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business are updated each quarter.
The board considers objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not longer-term financial projections as part of its absolute assurance against material misstatement regular discussions on the groups strategy.
Quality, integrity of personnel and whistle In accordance with the guidance published by the blowing arrangements Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of The integrity and competence of personnel is Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ensured through high recruitment standards and a the Turnbull Report, the board has implemented commitment to management and business skills a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and training.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential managing the material risks faced by the business.
part of the control environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by management The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the leadership and through the employee handbook which groups system of internal control and has taken is provided to all employees.
The employee handbook account of material developments, which have taken also sets out the procedures available to staff to raise, place since September 30 2003.
It has considered in confidence, possible improprieties in matters of the major business and financial risks, the control financial reporting or other matters.
environment and the results of internal audit.
Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk Social responsibility management further into the operations of the group The group is keen to maintain a high level of social and to deal with areas of improvement which have responsibility and has core procedures embedded in come to managements and the boards attention.
its internal systems and controls to ensure its social standards are monitored regularly and are not Key procedures which the directors have established breached.
The group supports and encourages with a view to providing effective internal control, and employees who become involved in social projects which have been in place throughout the year, are and examples of these are given in the Operating as follows: and Financial Review.
The board of directors Environmental responsibility The board normally meets six times a year to The group does not operate directly in industries consider group strategy, financial performance, where there is the potential for serious industrial acquisitions, business development and pollution.
It does not print products in-house or have management issues: any investments in printing works.
However, it does The board has overall responsibility for the group take its environmental responsibility seriously and and there is a formal schedule of matters complies with all relevant environmental laws and specifically reserved for decision by the board: regulations in each country in which it operates.
18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of circulation figures.
Businesses and central departments environmental issues when placing contracts with its are selected for an internal audit visit on a rotational suppliers of goods and services and these suppliers are basis and most businesses are subject to at least one regularly reviewed and monitored.
Although the group internal audit review each year.
The internal audit is not a heavy user of energy, it does manage its manager reports his findings to management and to energy requirements sensibly using low energy office the audit committee.
equipment where possible and using a common sense approach such as switching off equipment, airAccountability and audit conditioning, heating and lights when not required.
Audit committee The audit committee comprises three non-executive Health and safety directors: JC Botts chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant The group is committed to the health and safety of and JP Williams, and meets two or three times its employees and communities in which it operates.
The committee is responsible for The group complies with all local health and safety reviewing the interim report, the annual report and regulations and makes use of external health and accounts and other related formal statements safety advisors where appropriate.
Following the before their submission to the board, reviewing health and safety audit conducted in the UK during and overseeing controls necessary to ensure the 2003 new procedures have been introduced including integrity of the financial information reported to the the monthly assessment of the working environment shareholders.
The audit committee advises the board by experienced assessors and regular training of all UK on the appointment of external auditors and on their employees in health and safety matters.
remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, with particular focus on effectiveness, independence Investment appraisal and objectivity.
It discusses the nature, scope and any The managing director, finance director and business findings of the audit with the external auditors.
The group managers consider proposals for acquisitions and committee also considers and determines relevant launch of new businesses.
Proposals beyond specified action in respect of any control issues raised by the limits are put to the board for approval and are subject external auditors, and reviews the internal audit to due diligence by the groups finance team and, if managers programme and receives periodic reports necessary, independent advisers.
Capital expenditure on his findings.
The committee's terms of reference is regulated by strict authorization controls.
For capital are available on the company's website.
expenditure above specified levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to the board and reviews Financial reporting carried out to monitor progress against budget.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied Accounting and computer systems controls that the group has adequate resources to continue in and procedures operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For Accounting controls and procedures are regularly this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern reviewed and communicated throughout the group.
basis in preparing the accounts.
Particular attention is paid to authorization levels and segregation of duties.
The groups tax, cash and Statement of directors responsibilities in respect foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax and of the accounts treasury committee, which meets at least twice a year.
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to Controls and procedures over the security of data held prepare accounts for each financial year which give a on computer systems are periodically reviewed and are true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company subject to internal audit.
Controls include a specific and of the group as at the end of the financial year and focus on data security and disaster recovery.
of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Internal audit select suitable accounting policies and apply The group has an internal audit manager who draws them consistently: on the services of the central finance team to perform make judgements and estimates that are assignments.
The responsibilities of internal audit cover reasonable and prudent: four main areas: control of the assets of the business: monitoring of the accuracy of financial reporting:state whether applicable accounting standards adherence to group policies: and the accuracy of have been followed: and Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 19 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE continued prepare the accounts on a going concern basis to shareholders on directors remuneration, JC Botts unless it is inappropriate to presume that the has options in Internet Securities, Inc. in lieu of fees company will continue in business.
as a non-executive director of that company, which is common practice for non-executive directors in the US.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper In addition Mr Botts has served for more than three accounting records which disclose with reasonable terms of three years.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and to enable them to ensure Contrary to provision A.
2.1, the board has not that the accounts comply with the Companies Act identified a senior non-executive director as the 1985.
They are also responsible for the groups directors are of the opinion that all matters relating to system of internal controls, for safeguarding the the effective governance of the group must be dealt assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable with by the board as a whole.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
2.2 and D. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit committees to comprise entirely of The directors confirm that these requirements have independent non-executive directors.
committee comprises four non-executive directors, including JC Botts and two directors of Daily Mail Statement by the directors on compliance with and General Trust plc.
The audit committee comprises the Combined Code three non-executive directors, including JC Botts and The Listing Rules require the board to report on one director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
compliance throughout the accounting year with the 45 provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate As explained on page 16, the revised Combined Code Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
is not applicable for the year under review.
However, Save for the exceptions outlined below, the group from the board's initial assessment of the company's has complied throughout the financial year ended compliance under the revised Code there are no September 30 2004 with the provisions set out in significant areas other than those already raised in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
this report where the company does not comply.
A full disclosure of the company's compliance with the Provision A.
3.1 requires that non-executive directors revised Code will be given in the 2005 annual report.
should comprise not less than one third of the board.
The board currently comprises 20 directors of whom On behalf of the board six are non-executive.
3.2 requires that the majority of nonexecutive directors should be independent.
Three of the six non-executive directors are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, the intermediate parent undertaking of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC.
The board does not consider that the relationship Padraic Fallon with Daily Mail and General Trust plc has any influence Chairman on the independence of the non-executive directors in question.
Also, as explained in the report by the board November 23 2004.
