Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 16 3 05 11:27 am Page 54 Corporate governance summary The recently revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code is appended to the Listing Rules, which are the rules which apply to public companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Code applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2003 and so Exel is formally reporting on compliance with the Code for the first time in respect of the 2004 financial year.
The Code comprises a set of main principles which cover the general themes of the Board, Directors remuneration, financial reporting, internal control and communication with shareholders.
Each main principle is further expanded by a set of supporting principles as well as detailed provisions.
Listed companies are required to include a statement in their Annual Report to say how the main and supporting principles have been applied and whether or not the Company has complied with the Codes provisions during the year.
Where the Company is not compliant, the Code requires the Company to explain why this is so.
The corporate governance report on pages 33 to 37 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 49 contain a detailed explanation of how Exel applies the main and supporting principles of the Code.
For ease of reference, a summary of Exels compliance with the Codes provisions is included here with cross references to the relevant pages of the corporate governance, Directors remuneration reports, other sections of the Annual Report and the Notice of Meeting in respect of the 2005 AGM.
Where Exel does not comply with a provision, an explanation for this has been given in the relevant section of the Annual Report.
Combined Code provision Comment Page The Board meets eight times a year which is sufciently regular to discharge its duties effectively.
1.1 Compliant 33 There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision.
The corporate governance report includes a statement of how the Board operates and which issues are delegated to management.
The 2004 Annual Report identies the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chairmen and members A.
1.2 Compliant 30-31 of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The number of meetings of the Board and 34 the Committees and individual attendance by Directors is provided.
In 2004, the Chairman met the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present and A.
1.3 Compliant 33 the non-executive Directors met without the Chairman and executive Directors present at least once.
Where Directors have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which A.
1.4 Compliant cannot be resolved, they ensure that their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover.
1.5 Compliant 33 The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the same individual.
2.1 Explanation 34 of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and understood by the Board.
This will be set out in writing in 2005.
On appointment, the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in A.
2.2 Compliant The Board considers all of its non-executive Directors to be independent.
3.1 Compliant 34 The Board comprises the Chairman, six executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
3.2 Explanation 33 Although less than half of the Board are independent non-executive Directors, the Board considers that ensuring individual Directors participate fully and independently in decision-making is more important to achieve a balance of power than the precise split of executive and non-executive Directors.
The Board has appointed Sir William Wells as Senior Independent Director.
3.3 Compliant 34 to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive, A.
4.1 Explanation 35 meet as necessary and at least once a year.
Although a majority of members of the Nomination Committee are not independent non-executive Directors, the Board considers this is the most appropriate composition for a committee which leads the process for appointments to the Board.
The Chairman of the Company chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committees principal functions are to review the structure, size and composition A.
4.2 Compliant 35 of the Board, the membership of Board Committees and succession planning.
The Chairman is not Chairman of another FTSE 100 company.
The Chairman discloses to the Board A.
4.3 Compliant 30 any changes to his other significant commitments as they arise.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors each have a letter of appointment containing a reciprocal A.
4.4 Compliant 45 rolling one month notice clause.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors will be available for inspection A.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors state that they should exercise such powers A.
4.4 Partly compliant and perform such duties as are appropriate to the role.
The non-executive Directors undertake that they explanation will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Whilst an informal process is in operation, a formal process for the disclosure of non-executive Directors other significant commitments, and any changes to these, will be introduced during 2005.
The Boards policy is that executive Directors may not take on more than one non-executive A.
4.5 Partly compliant 45 directorship or chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, with the exception of John Allan who explanation is permitted two external non-executive directorship appointments.
Exel plc 54 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 16 3 2005 5:06 pm Page 55 Combined Code provision Comment Page The work of the Nomination Committee and the process used in relation to Board appointments A.
4.6 Compliant 35 in 2004 and in 2005 to date is described in the corporate governance report.
The process for inducting new Directors to the Board is described in the corporate governance report A.
5.1 Explanation 34 using the example of the most recent appointments.
A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek independent professional advice A.
5.2 Compliant 34 at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
As part of the 2004 Board appraisal process, the Committee Chairmen confirmed that they had access to sufficient resources to carry out their duties.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
5.3 Compliant 34 Secretary has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
The corporate governance report contains a description of how performance evaluation of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 34 its Committees and the individual Directors was conducted in 2004.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment A.
7.1 Compliant 34 and a minimum of one third of Directors must retire at each AGM.
The Notice of Meeting for the Notice of 2005 AGM contains sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an informed Meeting 03 decision in relation to those Directors seeking election or re-election.
Although non-executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms, they are subject to re-election A.
7.2 Compliant 45 and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
The Notice of Meeting for the Notice of 2005 AGM sets out why the Board believe Jean-Claude Guez, a non-executive Director retiring by Meeting rotation, should be re-elected.
When proposing re-election to shareholders, the Chairman will confirm that Jean-Claude Guezs performance continues to be effective.
None of the non-executive Directors have served on the Board for more than six years.
Performance-related elements of the remuneration of executive Directors form at least half of the B.
1.1 Compliant 41 total remuneration and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders and to give the Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The Remuneration Committee has followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Code in designing 39 the new share plans to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2005 AGM.
The Company does not offer executive share options at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 42 The Board sets levels of remuneration for non-executive Directors which reect the time B.
1.3 Compliant 45 commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Non-executive Directors are not awarded share options.
The Directors remuneration report includes details of the fees retained by executive Directors who B.
1.4 Compliant 45 are released to serve as a non-executive director elsewhere.
The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Partly compliant 44 including pension contributions and all other elements the Directors terms of appointment explanation would entail in the event of early termination and this is explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
John Pattullos service contract reects his obligation to mitigate loss in the event of the termination of his employment.
Notice or contract periods for all Directors are set at one year, except as regards John Pattullo.
1.6 Explanation 44 The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive Directors.
2.1 39 A description of the role of the Remuneration Committee and the authority delegated to it by the Board is included in the Directors remuneration report.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
The Directors remuneration report includes a statement on whether the remuneration B.
2.1 Compliant 39 consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee have any other connection with the Company.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration Committee for setting remuneration B.
2.2 Compliant 39 for all executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The non-executive Directors fees, excluding those of the Chairman, are determined by the B.
2.3 Compliant 45 Board without the non-executive Directors present.
Shareholders are invited specically to approve all new long-term incentive schemes and B.
2.4 Compliant Notice of significant changes to existing schemes.
Meeting The Directors explain their responsibility for preparing the accounts and there is a statement C. 1.1 Compliant 56-57 by the auditors on their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 32 The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls in 2004.
C. 2.1 Compliant 36 The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 55 Governance
