Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 33 Corporate governance Contents 1.
Compliance Exel has applied the principles and supporting principles 2.
The Board contained in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2.1 Board balance and independence the Code during the year and this report describes how 2.2 Appointments to the Board Exel has complied with the Codes provisions.
2.3 Information and professional development 2.4 Performance evaluation The Board considers that the Company substantially complies 2.5 Board attendance with the Codes provisions as set out on pages 54 to 56.
Board and management committees 3.1 Audit Committee 2.
The Board 3.2 Remuneration Committee The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 3.3 Nomination Committee decision.
The Board determines the strategic direction of 4.
Internal controls and risk management the Group, establishes policies and monitors operational 4.1 Basis for disclosure performance and internal controls.
Items approved by the 4.2 System of internal controls Board include annual budgets, medium-term business 5.
Corporate responsibility plans, financial reporting to shareholders, major acquisitions, 6.
Shareholder relations disposals, projects and contract renewals, significant capital 6.1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders expenditure, nancing proposals and matters relating to 6.2 Constructive use of the AGM corporate responsibility CR.
Certain issues are delegated to duly authorised committees of the Board, as described 03 below.
The Board reviewed and approved Exels strategy at its meeting in September 2004.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times a year and met nine times in 2004.
In addition to the Board meetings held at the Head Ofce, the Board meets in regional locations at least twice a year, at least one of which being a visit to one of the Groups locations outside the UK.
In June 2004, the Board held its meeting in Milan and visited sites in the area.
In September 2004, the Board held its meeting in Shanghai and visited local operations.
During 2004, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met three times with the Chief Executive without the other executive Directors present and once without the Chief Executive or the other executive Directors present.
One meeting of the non-executive Directors without the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive Directors present was held in 2004.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover, which the Board regards as appropriate and adequate in the circumstances.
2.1 Board balance and independence The Board considers that 12 Directors is the right number for it to operate effectively whilst ensuring that it has the appropriate range of skills and experience.
At the start of 2004, the Board comprised six executive Directors, five non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
For a brief period following John McDonoughs appointment on 1 February 2004, there were six non-executive Directors but this reduced to five as John Loudon did not seek re-election at the AGM on 22 April 2004.
On 13 August 2004, Ian Smith resigned as Director, reducing the number of executive Directors to five and the total number of Directors on the Board to 11.
John Pattullo was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2005 and the Board again comprises six executive Directors, five non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
There is no present intention to alter this composition.
The Board considers that ensuring individual Directors participate fully and independently in decision-making is more important than the precise split of executive and non-executive Directors to achieve a balance of power.
The Chairman ensures that the non-executive Directors challenge the Companys management, put forward their views and perform duties in a rigorous and robust manner.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 33 Governance Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 34 Corporate governance continued The Directors biographies, including those seeking election Ongoing training is provided for existing Directors with and re-election at the 2005 AGM, and the composition of the emphasis on legal and accounting developments.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance detailed on pages 30 and 31. matters.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with relevant training on their role and responsibilities.
A comprehensive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the induction programme was adopted for John McDonough Chief Executive is clearly established and understood by the and is in progress for John Pattullo, the most recent additions Board.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensures its effectiveness to the Board.
The programme includes presentations from in all aspects of its role and sets the agenda for meetings.
management, site visits and training in regulatory and technical areas such as legal and accounting matters.
The Board considers all of its non-executive Directors to be independent in the sense outlined in the Code.
2.4 Performance evaluation An appraisal of the Boards performance and effectiveness The Board has appointed Sir William Wells as Senior by means of a questionnaire was conducted by the Company Independent Director.
Sir William is available to shareholders Secretary in 2004 and its results were reviewed by the in circumstances where the usual channels of communication Chairman.
This evaluation also covered the three Board with the Company have failed to resolve an issue or where Committees.
The issues and proposed changes identied such contact is inappropriate.
through the Board appraisal were discussed in detail with the Board, both collectively and individually, and appropriate As required by the Companys Articles of Association, action was taken during the course of 2004. all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and a minimum 2.5 Board attendance of one third of Directors must retire at each AGM.
In addition, The following table shows the Directors attendance at any Director aged 70 or over must stand for re-election scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2004. every year.
plc Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 2.2 Appointments to the Board No.
of scheduled The Board appointed a new non-executive Director in meetings in 2004934 1 February 2004 and a new executive Director in March 2005.
1 Nigel Rich911 Using the example of these two most recent appointments John Allan 9 1 to the Board, the Nomination Committee debated and John Coghlan 9 established the set of skills and attributes required of the Bruce Edwards 9 candidates which were endorsed by the Board.
An external Mick Fountain 9 search consultant was appointed who selected candidates Jean-Claude Guez 9 4 according to the criteria identied by the Nomination 2 John Loudon2 Committee.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent 3 John McDonough833 Director interviewed short-listed candidates.
The Chief Dennis Millard 9 3 Executive and the Deputy Chief Executive also interviewed David Riddle 9 the preferred candidate.
The Directors were given the 4 Ian Smith 6 opportunity to speak to the candidate and vice versa.
Details Fritz Ternofsky 9 3 of the composition and role of the Nomination Committee Sir William Wells 9 4 1 are set out below.
2.3 Information and professional development Notes: The format, quality and supply of information provided to 1.
Nigel Rich ceased to be a member of the Remuneration the Board was reviewed as part of the Board appraisal process Committee on 20 July 2004. conducted in 2004.
John Loudon resigned as a Director and ceased to be a the process of supplying Board papers, reports and other member of the Remuneration Committee on 22 April 2004. information to the Directors.
John McDonough was appointed a Director on 1 February for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on issues 2004 and became a member of the Remuneration arising at Board meetings.
All non-executive Directors have Committee on 20 July 2004. independent access to the external auditors.
Ian Smith resigned as a Director on 13 August 2004.
A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to all Board committees, has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and is accountable to the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Board and management committees The Audit Committee is responsible for making The three principal Board committees are the Audit, recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
All these and removal of the external auditors.
It also approves the Committees have written terms of reference which are available appointment and termination of the Companys Head on the website or on request from the Company Secretary.
of Global Audit and Assurance.
The need to ensure that Committee membership is refreshed The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided has been considered and changes effected as detailed below.
by the external auditors on a regular basis to ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, Only the members of the Committees are entitled to be taking into consideration relevant professional and present at Committee meetings.
However, all non-executive regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired Directors are invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
and executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings when the Companys full year and interim results 3.2 Remuneration Committee are considered.
At the start of 2004, the Remuneration Committee comprised three non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
As part of the 2004 Board appraisal process, the Committee John Loudon did not seek re-election as a Director at the AGM Chairmen confirmed that they had access to sufficient and therefore ceased to be a member of the Remuneration resources to carry out their duties.
The Chairman stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 20 July 2004 and was 03 The Executive Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and replaced by John McDonough.
Since then the Remuneration consists of the senior executives identied on page 31 and Committee has comprised three independent non-executive the executive Directors, with the exception of David Riddle.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice Monthly meetings are held, half of which are via conference call a year, and met on four occasions in 2004.
Its responsibilities for those executives based outside the UK.
The responsibilities include setting remuneration policy and the Chairmans fees, of the Executive Board cover the Companys contract logistics ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service of the and freight management activities and include global strategy, executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors are international business development, resource management, fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys strategic IT issues, the review and approval of acquisitions overall performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of and projects before they are submitted to the Board and share awards to senior employees is on a fair and equitable corporate responsibility CR matters.
basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
A separate report on Directors remuneration is included Other key committees include the Acquisition Review Board, on pages 38 to 49. which meets monthly to review potential acquisitions and disposals, the Project Review Board, which meets monthly 3.3 Nomination Committee to review new business, contract renewal proposals and new The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, IT projects, the Risk Management Committee, which meets the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive, quarterly to review global risk management, insurance, meets as necessary and at least once a year.
In this respect, CR and health and safety issues, and the Pensions Committee the membership of the Nomination Committee does not which meets monthly to review global pensions issues.
comply with the Code as the majority of members are not independent non-executive Directors.
Nigel Rich chairs the 3.1 Audit Committee Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee, comprising three non-executive Directors, meets at least three times a year and met on three The Nomination Committees principal functions are to occasions during 2004.
Dennis Millard, Chairman of the review the structure, size and composition of the Board, the Audit Committee, is Group Finance Director of Cookson membership of the Board committees and the succession Group plc and therefore has recent and relevant financial plans for the Chief Executive and the other executive Directors.
On 1 February 2004, Nigel Rich stepped During 2004, the Committee met once to consider the redown from the Audit Committee and was replaced election to the Board of those Directors retiring by rotation by John McDonough.
at the 2005 AGM, to consider succession planning at Board level and to review revised terms of reference which were The Audit Committee provides a line of communication subsequently approved by the Board.
between the Board and the Companys external and internal auditors.
Its principal functions include ensuring that 4.
Internal controls and risk management appropriate financial standards are established and maintained 4.1 Basis for disclosure throughout the Group, reviewing the Groups accounting Exel has ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating policies, financial control systems and related matters and and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
making recommendations to the Board as and when necessary.
Processes were in place throughout 2004 for regular review At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets by the Board of the effectiveness of the system of internal the Companys internal and external auditors without the control and risk management and as such the Company Companys management being present.
It reviews the scope has complied with the guidance produced by the Turnbull and results of the audit, and monitors and approves the level Committee: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on and extent of non-audit services provided to the Company the Combined Code.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 35 Governance Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 36 Corporate governance continued 4.2 System of internal controls The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness Internal control is dened in the Code as all material controls, of the system of internal control include the following: including financial, operational and compliance controls the Board reviews the effectiveness of the risk management and risk management systems.
process and significant risk issues are discussed the Board reviews and considers the minutes of the Risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system Management Committee of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board the role of management is to implement Board policies on on the outcome of, and the Board receives the minutes risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed of, all Audit Committee meetings to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to the Board considers nancing, investment and treasury achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, decisions concerning the Group, including the giving internal controls can only provide reasonable and not of guarantees and indemnities absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Board reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the Group The Board regularly reviews the Groups strategic direction.
the Board reviews the key Group risks during the year, At the business level, strategic objectives, annual plans taking into account how the risks have changed over and performance targets are set by the executive management the period under review.
and reviewed by the Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
There is a dened process for identifying, The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the financial statements and reviews all formal announcements Group.
This has been in place for the year under review and relating to financial performance, including the corporate remains in place.
This process, which has been approved governance report.
and reviewed by the Board, consists of: formal identication by management at each level of the The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness Group of the key risks to achieving their business objectives, of Global Audit and Assurance activities annually and together with the risk management activities used to periodically.
The Audit Committee has carried out an annual minimise these risks and the routine assurance processes review of the function, requesting feedback from executive which indicate the effectiveness of their internal controls.
management, members of the Audit Committee and the The formal process includes evaluation of the inherent external auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviews the impact and likelihood of each risk and its residual impact progress and work performed by the Global Audit and and likelihood after management action Assurance function at each meeting, considering the amount a process of regular certication by management that they and type of work carried out with the available resources.
are responsible for the risks to their business objectives, that The Head of Global Audit and Assurance has access to they have reviewed their risks and controls and that they the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has a meeting have complied with the requirements of Group policies with the Chairman prior to each Audit Committee meeting a process of reporting and review, at regional executive without the presence of executive management.
The Head meetings and by the Board, of progress in the improvement of Global Audit and Assurance also meets the other of risk management activities and of the action taken members of the Audit Committee as required.
subsequent to incidents which have occurred assurance, which is provided by internal audit, as to The annual plan is presented to the Audit Committee meeting the existence and effectiveness of the risk management in November and updates are presented at the other meetings activities described by management.
The Audit Committee receives copies of all internal audit reports, of which 165 were issued in 2004, In addition to this process, businesses are subject to: and a progress report at each meeting which identies key a quarterly, comprehensive business review by the issues and provides a summary of the reports issued since executive team the last meeting.
The Audit Committee also reviews and independent internal and external audits which focus monitors managements response to the issues raised on areas of greatest risk, reporting to the executive team in the audit reports.
and the Audit Committee an extensive budget and target-setting process governed Processes are in place by which employees may, in confidence, by strict timetables and detailed specications raise concerns about potential improprieties within a monthly reporting and forecasting process reviewing the business.
performance against agreed objectives and targets appropriate delegated authority levels across the 5.
Corporate responsibility Group which prescribe the limits to which the Group The Board believes that the implementation of a corporate can be committed responsibility CR strategy supports the business and is in the established financial policies and procedures, covering best interests of shareholders, customers, employees and capital expenditure and project appraisal as well as post other stakeholders.
The Board takes collective responsibility project review to ensure that the Group has appropriate policies on social, other risk management policies and procedures which environmental and ethical matters and procedures to are designed to meet the needs of the particular business implement them.
The Board takes account of CR matters to which they relate.
These include health and safety, and CR risks through a Board level review at least annually environmental and other CR issues, legal compliance, and through the regular reports of the Risk Management quality assurance, risk transfer, insurance and security.
John Allan is responsible to the Board for all CR matters.
John Coghlan is Chairman of the Risk Management These procedures are monitored and assessed in a variety of Committee.
The Board supports Exels Code of Ethics which ways, including internal and external independent review.
reects the Boards expectations of corporate governance and standards of business practice.
Exel plc 36 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 37 The Board delegates responsibility for ensuring it has adequate The majority of institutional shareholder dialogue is with information to John Allan, John Coghlan and Doug Evans, John Allan and John Coghlan, supported by the Investor the Company Secretary.
This information includes, where Relations department.
In 2004, John Allan and John Coghlan relevant, the collection and evaluation of data, for instance devoted over 20 days of their time to meeting the investor on environmental, health and safety and employment community.
The Board is kept informed of shareholder issues, to enable improvement targets to be set and opinion and developments through a report from the performance against these targets to be measured.
Director of Investor Relations at each Board meeting.
The Groups risk management process also brings to the Boards attention areas of less significant risk.
In addition, Whenever possible, the Chairman and Senior Independent Exels crisis management process is able to keep Board Director make themselves available to meet shareholders members informed should the need arise.
and analysts through attendance at the results presentations and annual investor day.
In 2004, they also hosted CR risks are identied, managed and brought to the attention lunches for senior governance representatives from of the Board through the Groups overall risk management Exels institutional investors in London and Edinburgh process, outlined above.
As in 2003, no specic CR-related to discuss matters relating to governance.
risks that could have a material impact on the business have been identied.
The following table shows attendance by the Chairman and non-executive Directors at these events in 2004.
Verication of Exels CR activities and of the data required for Full year Interim Governance Governance that verication is undertaken by the Groups internal audit results results Investor lunch lunch 03 2003 2004 day London Edinburgh team.
Where specic or technical expertise is required, external consultants are used.
Nigel Rich Sir William Wells At the end of 2004, Laura Bolton was appointed to manage Fritz Ternofsky Exels CR programme, including CR policy development, Jean-Claude Guez the rolling out of data collection and target setting across the business.
6.2 Constructive use of the AGM Further information on the Companys approach to At the AGM, private shareholders have the opportunity environmental, social and ethical matters and workplace to listen to the Chief Executive present highlights from Exels practices are described in the CR report on pages 50 to 53. activities during the year and meet and question the Directors and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 6.
Shareholders are invited to submit questions Exel is committed to best practice and effective communication in advance of the meeting.
with the investor community, analysts and institutional and private shareholders.
The Companys website provides financial Electronic proxy voting and proxy voting by CREST are available.
and other business information including an archive of The number of proxy votes for, against and abstentions will announcements and Annual Reports, share price information, be announced after each resolution, be available at the end financial calendar and Exels approach to CR.
All issued of the meeting and be published on the Companys website.
information is available to all interested parties through Exels A detailed explanation of each item of special business website with an open subscription e-mail service providing to be considered is included in the Notice of Meeting sent access to all Company notications and news releases to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
6.1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders Exel hosts investor and analyst briengs and open access conference calls on the days it announces its interim and full year results.
In addition, an active dialogue with the investor community is maintained through a range of activities including regular trading statements, one-to-one meetings with UK and overseas investors, site visits and salesforce presentations.
Exel hosts an annual investor day which is an opportunity for institutional investors and analysts to better understand Exels business and strategy and to meet nonexecutive Directors and a range of senior management.
T o subscribe for Company notications and news releases go to http: www.
com exel home registrations T o view the Board Committees terms of reference go to http: www.
com exel home investors  T o learn more about corporate responsibility go to http: www.
com exel home corporate Exel plc Annual Report 2004 37 Governance
