20 Corporate governance In July 2003, the UK Financial Reporting Council issued the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the new Code, which replaced the Combined Code published in June 1998 and annexed to the Listing Rules.
The new Code applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Although the Company is not strictly required to report against the new Code until its report for 2005, during the year the Board undertook a review of the new Code and revised the Companys corporate governance framework accordingly.
This revised framework was formally adopted in March 2004 and the following report has been prepared with reference to the new Code and its related guidance the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control, the Smith guidance on Audit Committees and various items of good practice guidance from the Higgs report.
The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the new Code.
The way in which the Company applies these principles is described below.
The Company also complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of the new Code, except as may be explained below.
Directors The Board, Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors and their biographical details are set out on page 19.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and each has a written statement of responsibilities.
Martin Gilbert, the Chairman, is responsible for the effective conduct of Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them to take a full part in Board discussions.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments are set out in his biography on page 19.
Moir Lockhead, the Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman, is responsible for developing and implementing business strategy and processes and for the day-to-day management of the Group.
David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board critically examines the Groups budget and business plan annually and meets at least eight times a year to review the financial performance of the Group, current trading and key business issues and initiatives.
It also meets regularly to discuss strategy and on an ad hoc basis as required.
It has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including items such as the approval of the annual and interim financial statements, financing arrangements, material capital commitments, business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and accounting policies.
Each of the Directors who were in office for the full year attended the eight Board meetings held during the year.
Dean Finch attended the one Board meeting held after his appointment as a Director in February 2004, although by invitation of the Board, he attended a number of meetings during the year in his former role of Managing Director, Railways.
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, further details of which are given in separate sections below.
The Board has also delegated certain matters to committees of the Board and the principal such committees are: Executive Safety Committee The Executive Safety Committee ESC is chaired by Moir Lockhead and comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers and safety officers.
The ESC meets monthly to review the Groups safety performance and practices, develop safety policies and procedures and follow up on outstanding issues.
During the year, a number of the meetings were attended by representatives from DuPont Safety Resources.
Senior representatives of relevant industry bodies, such as Her Majestys Railway Inspectorate, also attend meetings of the ESC on a regular basis.
Executive Management Board The Executive Management Board EMB, under the chairmanship of Moir Lockhead, acts as a general operating management committee and comprises all the Executive Directors and certain senior business managers.
The EMB meets monthly with senior corporate staff and business unit managing directors to review outstanding issues and to consider the Groups financial and operational performance.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors, under the chairmanship of Moir Lockhead, meets on an ad hoc basis to consider and approve matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Groups operations.
The Board has delegated specific powers to this committee within certain prescribed limits to deal with matters relating to the ordinary day-to-day running of the Groups operations and which need to be considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
Board balance and independence The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been reviewed against the definition of independence set out in the new Code.
David Dunn, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright are considered to be independent of management and have no business or other 21 relationships which could materially influence the exercise of their independent judgment.
Martyn Williams, as an employee of one of the Groups subsidiary companies, cannot be considered to be independent.
With the appointments of Dean Finch and David Leeder as Executive Directors in February and May 2004 respectively, the Company does not comply with the new Code provision that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent.
However, Iain Lanaghan and Dr Mike Mitchell, Executive Directors, have both announced their intention to step down from the Board during 2004 05.
The Board considers that there is no need for additional Non-Executive Directors to be appointed to the Board during this transitional period and is confident that the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees will be maintained.
The composition and balance of the Board will be kept under review going forward in light of the provision in the new Code.
The Board believes that together, the Directors possess the breadth of business, financial and international experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of the size and complexity of the Group.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee the Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and includes David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and Moir Lockhead.
Martyn Williams was a member until March 2004, when it was agreed that he would step down, although he retains the right to attend meetings at the request of the Chairman and may address any such meetings.
The Board reviewed the remit of the Committee during the year in light of the new Code and adopted revised written terms of reference in March 2004, which are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The revised terms of reference did not introduce any significant changes but clarified and set out more fully the existing responsibilities of the Committee.
The Committee meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with recommendations being put to the full Board for its consideration.
External search consultants are used to assist the process where appropriate.
The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors Forum, which comprises the Employee Directors from the Groups subsidiaries, and generally serves a three-year term.
During the year, the Committee met twice, primarily to consider executive appointments to the Board in the context of the skills and experience the Board requires for the future commercial and strategic development of the Group and to consider succession planning issues in general.
All members of the Committee attended each meeting.
During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Dean Finch as Commercial Director and, following the decisions by both Iain Lanaghan and Dr Mike Mitchell to leave the Board, the appointments of Dean Finch and David Leeder as Finance Director and Director, UK Bus respectively.
External consultants were not used during this process as the Committee had, as part of its consideration of the Companys succession plans, identified candidates with the necessary skills and experience for those roles from amongst the Companys senior management team.
The Board accepted the recommendations of the Committee unanimously.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept a limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
No such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
The Companys policy regarding the fees received for such directorships is set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 25.
Information and professional development The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have direct access to senior executives should they wish to receive additional information on any items for discussion.
The head of each operating Division attends a number of Board meetings each year and, during the year, each presented to the Board on current issues facing their respective Divisions.
A number of Board meetings each year are held on site at operating locations in the UK and USA, allowing the Directors to visit the Groups operations and to discuss key issues with local operational management and stakeholders.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and can seek independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on corporate governance matters and undertook on behalf of the Board the review of the new Code.
Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board as appropriate, including information on their responsibilities and obligations as directors under legislation, regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process is supported during the year by the programme of business presentations and operational visits, as described above.
The training and induction process for new directors is being reviewed and will be developed further to take into account the provisions of the new Code.
During the year, the Chairman held a separate meeting with the Non-Executive Directors.
Performance evaluation Processes for evaluating the performance of the Board and its Committees are evolving in light of the requirements of the new Code.
Such reviews have so far been informal in nature but it is the Boards intention to establish a structured process for evaluating and monitoring the performance of the Board and its Committees and the individual Directors, to conduct an annual formal review and to report on that review.
22 Corporate governance continued Re-election As required by the Companys articles of association, Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
The biographical details of all the Directors, including those Directors seeking election or re-election at the 2004 AGM may be found on page 19.
The Companys articles of association do not contain any age limits for directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, which are available for inspection.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has yet to serve a term of six years.
Insurance The Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
The cover was renewed on 1 April 2004.
Remuneration Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, met six times during the year.
Following the publication of the new Code, revised terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee were adopted.
These are available on the Companys website.
Details of the membership of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 30, together with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear on page 28.
Accountability and Audit Financial reporting The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published information including, but not limited to, the year-end and interim financial statements, Stock Exchange announcements and other public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements may be found on page 34.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgment, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Controls Introduction The Board has established procedures to meet the requirements of the new Code and its related guidance.
These procedures, which are subject to a regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group.
Responsibility The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary unit lies with the Executive Directors and the subsidiary unit managing directors.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which managers and employees are required to comply.
During the year, the Board considered and adopted a formal Code of Ethics, which is published on the Companys website.
There is a defined divisional organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority which allows the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors under the direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board retains certain key decisions to itself, enabling it to maintain control over the key business decisionmaking processes and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions has detailed procedures and is monitored by an Executive Director.
23 Monitoring The Group adopts a professional approach to financial reporting and information in compliance with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both Group management and the Executive Directors.
Monthly forecasts are completed during the year and compared against budget.
When setting budgets and forecasts, management identifies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business risks and actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance, with a commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include consideration of long-term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from the subsidiary units to senior management to the Executive Directors.
This process includes an internal control questionnaire and risk assessment and is signed off by the subsidiary directors.
This process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by both the internal and external auditors.
Detailed action plans are developed from these questionnaires to resolve any control weaknesses or significant risks identified.
Risk assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area and major projects identify their risks, the probability of the risks occurring, the impact on the business should the risks occur and the actions taken to manage the risks.
The risks are assessed on a regular basis and could be associated with a variety of internal and external sources including political instability, regulatory requirements, disruption to information systems, control breakdowns and social, ethical and environmental issues.
Regular performance reviews have been introduced in each of the divisions to further embed the concept of risk management.
The divisional directors review the detailed risk management reports prepared by their subsidiary units which include updates of agreed action plans arising from previous performance reviews.
Effectiveness The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements through the monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management in operation during the period up to the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee the Committee, which is chaired by David Dunn, includes Martin Gilbert, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright, and normally meets at least twice a year.
It met twice during the year but it is expected that it will meet more frequently in the future.
All the members of the Committee attended each meeting.
Martyn Williams stepped down from the Committee in March 2004.
The Board considers that each of the members of the Committee has sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
The revised terms of reference did not introduce significant changes but clarified and set out more fully the existing responsibilities of the Committee.
The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
It also keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the audits conducted by the internal audit department and the external auditors.
It keeps under review the consistency of accounting policies and financial reporting across the Group and reviews the half-year and full-year financial statements before they are presented to the Board.
The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the new Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal audit department is focused on areas of priority as identified by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are implemented.
The Group Director of Audit has the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and, subject to the approval of shareholders, recommends to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the external auditors.
The Committee is also charged with monitoring the independence of the external auditors and the objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process.
The objectivity and independence of the external auditors is considered on a regular basis, with particular 24 Corporate governance continued regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the current auditors knowledge of the Companys business processes and controls means that they are best placed to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by the auditors during the year was associated with acquisition-related due diligence and reviews of the financial models for the Companys rail franchise bids.
It is the Committees intention during the coming year to review its policy on nonaudit services in the light of the provisions in the new Code.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the nonaudit fee, are set out in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters that may concern them.
The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the external auditors on the audit process.
The external auditors also meet with the full Board and, if necessary, separately, with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim results go through a detailed verification and due diligence process involving external advisers.
The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none have the right of attendance.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
The external auditors and the Group Director of Audit attended each meeting held during the year.
Executive Directors and other senior managers attended where requested and as appropriate.
The business considered and discussed by the Committee included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year and full-year results, the 2004 05 Group Internal Audit Plan and budget, papers summarising any regular and special internal audits and an executive summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis assessments from Group companies and a review of the implications of proposed accounting standards.
The Committee also received a report on the arrangements for the Groups confidential employee hotline, which was introduced during the year.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with Institutions The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to all shareholders and an Interim Report is published and sent to all shareholders at the half-year.
These reports are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational performance and prospects and its financial results and position.
All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, appointments etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the Groups website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director following the announcement of the full and half-year results.
Other Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Regular reports on investor relations activity are submitted to the Board and senior management.
A programme is being developed for the Chairman and Senior Independent Director to attend a number of meetings with major shareholders following the announcement of the Groups full and half-year results.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with major shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they expect that informal dialogue to continue.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors at the Companys AGM, at which a report is made on the highlights of the key business developments during the financial year under review.
The Chairmen of each of the Remuneration and Audit Committees attend the AGM to answer specific questions from shareholders.
All Directors were present at the 2003 AGM.
Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where votes are taken by a show of hands, the proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
