Corporate governance The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining the Board Committees highest possible standards of corporate governance and during The Board has appointed the following principal Committees: the year followed the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr R P Edey and its membership comprises all the With the exception of the notice periods in certain directors non-executive directors.
It meets at least twice a year and service contracts, the directors consider that throughout the its primary tasks are to receive regular reports from the year ended 31 March 2004 the Company complied fully with Groups external auditors and the outsourced internal audit the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
function, and to review the preliminary results, interim However, by 31 December 2004, the notice periods of all information and annual financial statements before they executive directors service contracts will have been reduced are presented to the Board, concentrating particularly on to one year.
accounting policies and compliance, areas of management This statement on corporate governance, together with judgement and estimates, and the monitoring of the controls the Remuneration report, provides a commentary on which are in place to ensure the integrity of the financial how the Company complied with the principles included information to be reported to shareholders.
The Committee in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
also discusses internal control issues, and conducts a review of the remit of the outsourced internal audit function, including The Board its authority, resources and scope of work.
The Committee The directors supervise the management of the business and gives advice to the Board concerning the appointment and the affairs of the Company and see their prime responsibility remuneration of external auditors and sets the policy on as being to determine the broad strategy of the Group and their engagement and remuneration for non-audit work.
to ensure its implementation with a view to enhancing the Remuneration Committee This Committee meets at least prosperity of the Group and its shareholders over time.
twice a year, and consists of all the non-executive directors The Board currently comprises four executive and five with Mr C R N Clark as Chairman.
Its key role is to make non-executive directors, and their names are listed on page 28. recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework The Board has reviewed the position of its non-executive of executive remuneration and its cost, and to determine directors and has determined that they are all independent in specific remuneration packages for each of the executive character and judgement in accordance with the guidance as directors, including pension rights and compensation set out in the Combined Code.
Mr R P Edey has been the senior payments.
The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to independent director throughout the year.
ensure that the executive directors are both highly motivated and fairly rewarded for their contributions to the Groups The Board meets at least six times each year with additional overall performance.
Further details of the Committees work meetings as required.
All directors receive regular information and of the directors emoluments and interests are set out in on the Groups operational and financial performance and the the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 41.
Board has reserved certain items for its review and approval, including the annual and interim results, the strategy of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee Company, the annual profit plan, corporate governance, internal consists of the Chairman of the Board and all the remaining control and risk management.
It also makes high level decisions non-executive directors.
It meets when necessary to make regarding acquisitions and divestments, and sets policies on, recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments amongst other things, remuneration, health and safety, and the and also to advise generally on issues relating to Board environment.
The Company Secretary is appointed by and is responsible to the The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee Board and all directors have access to his advice and services.
meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Directors may obtain independent professional advice if Number of Board Audit Remuneration Nominations necessary, at the Companys expense.
Formal agendae, papers meetings 7231 and reports are supplied to directors in a timely manner, prior Attendance to Board meetings.
Briefings are also provided at other times, for K Orrell-Jones7231 example, through operational visits and business presentations.
R P Edey 7231 The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive each having J A Biles 7 n a n a n a their own separate responsibilities.
Essentially, the Chairman is responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Chief C R N Clark6231 Executive is responsible for all operational matters.
R L Gott 7 n a n a n a The directors may at any time appoint an additional director.
P Heiden 7 n a n a n a A formal selection process is carried out, making use of Sir Michael external agencies in the selection of suitable candidates where Hodgkinson6231 it appears necessary or appropriate.
Upon the appointment of S D Jones 7 n a n a n a a new director, relevant training is provided as required.
C Matthews511 n a Any director so appointed holds office until the next annual J S Rodewig422 n a general meeting and is eligible for reappointment at that meeting.
Following such appointment, the Articles of From date of appointment.
Association require each director to retire by rotation and seek Up to date of cessation of directorship.
re-election at least every three years.
29 FKI plc Annual report 2004 The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks, Communications with shareholders the probability of them happening and their impact together In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is with the associated action plans to mitigate them.
Operating disseminated in order to maintain an orderly market in the unit and corporate function managers are responsible for these ordinary shares of the Company, the Company maintains a action plans and their progress is reported at least twice a year regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and to the FKI Risk Committee as part of their performance review.
analysts, particularly following trading updates and results The Risk Committee is accountable for the risk management announcements.
Trading updates, results announcements and system and for reporting key risks and associated mitigating additional Company information are also posted on the actions to the Board through the Audit Committee and meets Companys website, which is regularly updated.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and the other members are the senior executive management.
The Board members attend the annual general meeting and, The Finance Director is responsible for the implementation in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and of the risk management process throughout the Group Nominations Committees are available to answer questions.
and the compilation of the group risk register which records At annual general meetings, separate resolutions are proposed all risks which management considers to be significant, on each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy together with the appropriate mitigating actions.
The risk votes received for and against each resolution is announced.
registers are reviewed with the three year business plans in Notices of annual general meetings are sent to shareholders August September and with the annual budget in at least 20 working days before the meeting.
These reviews cover actions completed and the status of ongoing actions.
Financial reporting An independent review of the risk process was completed The directors, who have sole responsibility for the preparation in October 2003 and concluded that the risk process was in and presentation of this report and accounts and other price compliance with the Turnbull guidelines.
However, it was decided sensitive public reports, seek to prepare those reports in a way that a number of improvements could be made to the process to that represents a balanced and understandable assessment of help meet business objectives.
These recommendations for the Groups position and prospects.
improving the system have now been implemented and are Internal control and risk management system being embedded into the normal business processes, including approval of tenders, capital expenditure and business projects.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to Lessons learnt from the implementation and operation of the safeguard the Companys assets and shareholders investment.
risk process are being fed back and will be further reviewed in In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors future to ensure continuous improvement.
on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board of FKI has established a risk management policy and system The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of which are an integral part of the managements approach to internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delivery of the strategic and business objectives.
The risk has reviewed the key risks inherent in the Group, together with management system is a systematic process designed to the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate business implemented to mitigate those key risks.
It also provides a process for the escalation and delegation of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute of risks to the appropriate level in the operations and ensures assurance against material misstatement or loss.
that actions are properly defined, resourced and effected The Company has an organisation structure with clearly defined to give confidence in achievement of business objectives.
lines of responsibility, accountability and delegated authority The system operates throughout FKI and is applied equally and with clear local operating autonomy within a framework to the operating units and corporate functions.
of central management, stated corporate aims and objectives.
Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external The operating performance of each business is regularly sources and can be associated with customer requirements, reviewed by the executive directors, and progress is monitored competitor actions, regulations and political actions.
They may against business plans, utilising established procedures for also arise from the products and services sold by the Group business planning, budgeting, capital expenditure approval and the processes used by operations as part of their normal and treasury management.
Management regularly carries out risk assessments covering risks in strategy, risks to achieving commitments contained in contracts with customers, risks in organisational change, risks associated with major projects and risks involving potential acquisitions.
30 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate governance
