REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: a. to consider the appointment of the external auditors, the audit C. D. Collins Non-Executive Director Chairman fee and any questions of resignation or dismissal and to make G. H. Webster Non-Executive Director retired 7th May 2004 recommendations to the Board for it to put to shareholders: W. Harkness Non-Executive Director G. Brown Non-Executive Director b. to monitor and review the external auditors independence and D. D. S. Robertson Non-Executive Director objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are in attendance at the Audit Committee meetings, however, they are not c. to discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the present for the full meeting as the Audit Committee has separate audit and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm is sessions with only the external auditor present.
involved: The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
d. to develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial period of up to three relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three services by the external audit firm: year periods as long as the members are considered to be independent.
The Company does not comply with the New Code in that the Chairman e. to monitor and review the integrity of the accounts focusing of the Company is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee and is not particularly on any changes in accounting policies and practices, regarded as being independent.
It is the Boards intention to appoint a major judgmental areas, significant adjustments resulting from the new Chairman of this Committee this year.
audit, the going concern assumption, compliance with Accounting Standards and compliance with Stock Exchange and legal The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year to receive requirements: reports on various matters including the full year accounts March, the Interim Statement August, and on planning work for the forthcoming f. to monitor and review any formal announcements relating to the 2004 full year audit November.
Companys financial performance: The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee authorise it to seek any g. to monitor and review the Companys internal financial controls: information it requires from any employee and all employees are required to co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.
The Committee h. to monitor and review the internal audit programme, to review is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or other independent the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors and professional advice and to secure the attendance of outsiders with to ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced relevant experience and expertise if it is considered necessary.
to a level commensurate with the Companys requirements: i. to ensure that all matters within the remit of the Committee are dealt with in an open, fair and transparent manner: j. to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken: k. to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, and ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
The risk management system is reviewed by the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 33 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to the external auditors The policy on non-audit work with effect from January 2005 is as follows: independence: it has considered the external auditors quality control procedures and has reviewed and approved the level of audit fees by 1.
Audit Related Services reference to the level of fees which the external auditor has been paid As auditors, this is the main area of work for the external auditor.
during the year: it also compared the fees paid to the external auditor If any additional accounting support is required, then this should with fees paid to other professional advisors for accounting and other be considered on a competitive basis.
It received a presentation from the external auditor in which the views of the external auditor were expressed in relation to the question 2.
It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position is important, process considering the quality of people and service provided by the Forth Ports may use  LLP and its external auditor, the robustness of the audit and the quality of delivery.
associates but this does not preclude the Group from using other tax consulting firms.
Significant additional tax work should be The Audit Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness by evaluated competitively.
considering such matters as skillsets of members, quality of Audit Committee papers, relationships with the external auditor and the internal 3.
General and Systems Consulting auditor and suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
All significant consulting projects, including due diligence work, The results were discussed and approved by the Audit Committee which should be subject to competitive tender.
The Group Finance expressed itself satisfied as to its effectiveness.
Director is required to give prior approval of work to be carried out by  LLP if the fee is between 5,000 The Audit Committee also receives a report at each meeting from the and 49,999.
If the fee proposal is in excess of 50,000, this should internal auditor on the work which he has carried out.
A separate Internal be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee if it is Audit Plan is presented for consideration in November of each year for proposed to give this work to  LLP.
the following years work programme.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is satisfied as to the effectiveness of that function given the size and complexity of the business.
A whistle blowing policy has been adopted throughout the Group.
This Christopher Collins policy sets out the position whereby any concerns, including those of a Chairman financial nature, may be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
21st March 2005 The Audit Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor was reviewed by the Board at its meeting in January 2005.
The previous guideline was that the Audit Committee encouraged competition for non-audit work.
During 2004, the Company used four different firms of professional advisers to advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT and other financial matters.
The amount of the Statutory Audit Fee in 2004 was 229,000 excluding audit fees for joint ventures of 43,000 compared with 101,000 of non-audit services being 53,000 for tax advice and 48,000 for IFRS accounting advice.
