REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were: The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Board in respect of the following: C. D. Collins Non-Executive Director Chairman a. the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: G. H. Webster Non-Executive Director retired 7th May 2004 W. Harkness Non-Executive Director b. the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement G. Brown Non-Executive Director by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: D. D. S. Robertson Non-Executive Director C. G. Hammond Group Chief Executive c. the continuation in office as a Director of any Director at any time: and The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
d. the appointment of any Director to Executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an initial period of up the recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting to three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional of all the Directors regarding these two appointments.
Mr. W. Harkness has been reappointed for a third three year period.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised The Committee meets not less than once a year and at such other times to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional as business requires.
During the year there was one meeting of the advice on any matters within its Terms of Reference.
During the year, the Nomination Committee prepared a detailed brief for The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: a search to be carried out by Hanson Green for a new Non-Executive Director to replace Mr. G. H. Webster who retired.
a. to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment: Following their appointment all new Directors and Senior Managers participate in the Companys induction programmes where each individual b. to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for approval of the will meet all the Senior Managers of the Group, be shown the principal Board, candidates to fill the Board vacancies as and when they arise: locations of the Group and be given presentations on the Companys strategy, targets and different business units.
c. to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: d. to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time to undertake the role: and Christopher Collins e. to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been put in place Chairman for every new Director.
