CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Directors believe that it is essential that the Group should be The way in which the Company applies the principles set out in the new led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial a formal Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it on such Reporting Council in July 2003 the New Code is described below.
matters as: Compliance Statement Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the New performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management: Code throughout the year under review with the exception of: provision A3.2 half the Board should be independent, provisions C3.1 and the Controlling and monitoring the financial performance of the Group: Smith Guidance paragraph 2.4 Audit Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience and the Chairman of the Company Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major should not be an Audit Committee member and provision B2.1 the changes in organisation and direction of the Group: Chairman is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Under provision A3.2 the Board considers that, for its size, the composition of the Board Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies reflects a substantial degree of independence.
In addition, with the including, for example, acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: retiral of Mr. A. C. Morrison in May 2005, and the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director to replace Mr. G. H. Webster, the Board will Ensuring compliance in relation to comply with the Code.
When the new Non-Executive Director is a Safety, health and environmental matters appointed, it is expected that this individual will be appointed to the b Corporate Governance Audit Committee and will have recent relevant and financial experience.
Two of the Non-Executive Directors, Mr. C. D. Collins and Mr. W. Harkness Delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, are both qualified chartered accountants.
It is the Boards intention for Committees of the Board, the Group Chief Executive and other Mr. Collins to hand over Chairmanship of the Remuneration and Directors: Audit Committees this year.
Compliance under the Companies Act, Stock Exchange and other The Combined Code Application of Principles Regulations: A.
Directors Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets and major The Board management financial decisions as determined from time to time Mr. C. D. Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and by the Board.
Mr. C. G. Hammond is the Group Chief Executive.
There have been no changes to these positions during the year.
At the beginning Board Meetings of the year, the Board of Directors comprised five Non-Executive The Board met five times last year for regular business and the Directors and five Executive Directors.
The Board considers all Directors participated in the Annual Strategy Conference.
The Board its Non-Executive Directors to be independent, other than the meets as necessary for any matters arising at other times.
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2004, Mr. G. H. Board meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the Webster retired after nine years on the Board.
As Mr. G. H. Webster Executive Directors covering his area of responsibility.
was the Senior Independent Director, the Board nominated Mr. W. Harkness to be the Senior Independent Director.
An Annual General Meeting is held every year at which all Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
During the year, the Nomination Committee engaged the services of Hanson Green, independent Search Consultants to bring forward The attendance at Board Meetings during 2004 was as shown a list of suitable candidates for the vacant position of Non-Executive below: Director, with particular reference to the Companys requirement Name Meetings Attended for this Director to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The search is close to a conclusion.
C. D. Collins 5 C. G. Hammond 5 No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for more than W. W. Murray 5 nine years from the date of his first election.
The Board has adopted A. C. Morrison 5 the principle that Non-Executive Directors should normally serve two three year terms and that any term beyond six years should T. P. Smith 5 be subject to particularly rigorous review.
D. Glading 5 Executive Director shall serve longer than nine years.
Mr. W. G. H. Webster 2 Harkness was re-elected to the Board for a third term at the Annual General Meeting last year.
Mr. Harkness has made a significant W. Harkness 5 contribution to the Board and its sub-committees.
Also, with the G. Brown 5 retiral of Mr. G. H. Webster, the Board considered it important that D. D. S. Robertson 5 there should be continuity on the Board at the same time as making Retired during the year.
two new Non-Executive Director appointments last year.
When appointing a Non-Executive Director, the Board considers carefully The Chairman held one meeting during the year with the the time commitment required by the new appointee in relation to Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 Sub-Committees of the Board Annual Evaluation of Performance The Board has delegated certain matters to three sub-committees The Board has initiated a process whereby an annual evaluation of of the Board comprising the Audit Committee, the Remuneration its own performance and that of its sub-committees and individual Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman of the Directors and Chairman is undertaken.
Each Director receives a Board is also the Chairman of each of the sub-committees although it Board Performance Evaluation Questionnaire and separate is expected that he will hand over the Chairmanship of the Audit and Committee Performance Evaluation Forms where appropriate for Remuneration Committees during 2005.
Details of the membership use in assessing the Boards own performance and that of the of each sub-committee are shown on pages 33 to 42.
As the Nomination Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate Performance Evaluation The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Questionnaire for that Committee however any comments on the the various sub-committee meetings for the period under review: Nomination Committee may be sent to the Chairman as part of the Board Questionnaire.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider Number of meetings held 4 5 1 fulfilment of terms of reference, necessary skills and resources of members, evaluation of the supporting processes for the Name Committee and an overall view of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The results were compiled and addressed by the Chairman and C. D. Collins 4 5 1 advised to the Board.
The results were considered by the Board G. H. Webster 1 2 - at its February meeting in 2005.
Some major changes were W. Harkness 4 5 1 implemented as a result of this review.
G. Brown 451 An evaluation of individual Directors performance was undertaken D. D. S. Robertson 451 by the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Group Company Secretary Director, met once without the Chairman and the Executive The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Directors to discuss and evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, the views of the Executive Directors were sought.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary is also As part of the annual budget presentation to the Board, the Board responsible for ensuring that the Directors are fully aware of their reviews the targets which were given to individual Executive Directors duties and responsibilities as Directors and that they receive and Senior Managers within the Group and subsequently discusses appropriate training.
and approves the targets to be given to these individuals for the following year.
Independent Advice There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent External Audit Process professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the effectiveness of the external audit process by way of a questionnaire which Unresolved Concerns reviewed, on a graded scale, the robustness of the audit, the Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved in quality of delivery and the quality of people and service.
The Audit connection with the running of the Company or a proposed Committee was satisfied as to the effectiveness of the external action, their concerns are recorded in the Board Minutes.
Executive Director resigns, he should provide a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if he has any such B.
Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35 which sets out the composition of the Remuneration Committee, Insurance Cover the Companys remuneration policy for Directors and details of such The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and remuneration including bonus schemes and pensions for each Officers and the Trustees of its pension schemes against the costs Director, and the Committees compliance with all relevant sections of defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against of the New Code.
them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted All Executive Directors are on one-year rolling contracts.
by UK Law, the Company also indemnifies its Directors, Officers and Trustees.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides C. Relations with Shareholders cover where the Director, Officer or Trustee has acted fraudulently The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional or dishonestly.
shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys broker which reflect the views of the major shareholders on an unattributable basis following the half-yearly and annual presentations to major shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on a regular basis.
In addition, the Board invites an Independent Transport Analyst to its Annual Strategy Conference with a remit to give the Board that analysts views about the Company and how it compares with its peer group.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In 2004, the Chairman met with two of the Companys shareholders.
Main Control Procedures As part of the governance process, other major shareholders were Divisional management establishes control procedures in response offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman should they so wish.
to each of the key risks identified.
Standard financial control The Senior Independent Director is also available for meetings if procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of requested.
The Board has established procedures for authorisation of capital expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with The Group has an internal audit function which carries out private investors and encourages their participation both inside and systematic reviews of the financial control procedures.
Monitoring System used by the Board As in prior years, the Company, at the 2005 Annual General The Board participates in an annual strategy conference which Meeting, will ensure that the level of proxies for and against each includes a three year forward financial review which is then updated resolution is intimated to shareholders after each resolution has on an annual basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and been dealt with.
monitors the Groups performance against those budgets.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on Internal Control the Guidance Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit Committee are contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 33.
Internal Control: The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts: Company law requires throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
It should be the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a recognised that such a system can provide only reasonable, and true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those The key features of the system which have been established accounts, the Directors are required to: are as follows: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Control Environment make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the Groups state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the structure has clear lines of responsibility.
Operating and financial accounts responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the local prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Boards.
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business Identification of Business Risks and compliance with the Guidance The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Throughout last year, the Group complied with the Guidance.
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures position of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure involved in the identification of business risks and compliance that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also with the Guidance.
The Board regularly reviews the process of responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups key risks which and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection allows it to take a view on the effectiveness of these procedures.
of fraud and other irregularities.
All subsidiaries are required to assess key risks and related control and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis.
The maintenance and integrity of the Forth Ports PLC website is The Board monitors this process on a regular basis.
the responsibility of the Executive Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, Major Corporate Information Systems accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the results to budget.
Management accounts are compiled on a preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation monthly basis.
Variances from budget are thoroughly investigated in other jurisdictions.
and revisions to forecasts are made twice during the year.
Cash flow projections are prepared monthly and cover a rolling twelve Going Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, have a month period to ensure that the Group has adequate funds.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board Morag McNeill Group Company Secretary 21st March 2005 32 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
