corporate governance report The Company is required by the Listing Rules issued by the Financial The Board met nine times during the year to consider the Services Authority to set out how it has applied the Principles of Good development of the business and all of the Directors attended every Corporate Governance and the Code of Best Practice the Combined meeting.
An agenda with supporting detailed information is Code.
This report, in two parts, sets out how the Company has applied distributed well in advance of each meeting, the detailed nature of the principles and the extent of our compliance with the detailed provisions which reflects the management approach.
The Board reserves to published in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in June 1998. itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, including the Groups strategic plans, annual operating budget, major capital Part one: application of the principles expenditure, treasury policies, financial performance and external Operational culture financial reporting.
The Board delegates responsibility for the dayThe Group operates under the detailed and entrepreneurial guidance of to-day operation of the business to the executive Directors and Stephen Marks the founder of the business, the executive Directors and recognises its responsibility for ensuring that the Company operates a broad range of operational managers.
The cultural focus of the within a framework of prudent and effective controls, to set the business is on the design, production and sale of cool, fashionable Companys strategic aims and to ensure that the necessary products in a highly demanding and fast-moving environment.
All resources are in place.
managers and staff are expected to be intimately familiar with the operations they are involved with, to take responsibility for them, to The Board recognises that the Board is of such a size to be unable to monitor them daily and to act to improve business performance promptly meet the requirements relating to non-executive Directors, Board and effectively.
This culture is lead by the executive Board members who subcommittees and the division of responsibilities at the head of the act in the same way taking counsel among themselves and with others, Company set out in the Combined Code, but believes that the including external advisors, as necessary.
composition and breadth of experience of the Board and the senior management are appropriate for the size, nature, status and culture The Board of Directors of the Company as demonstrated by the businesss strong track The Board of Directors at the date of this report comprises three executive record of success in a challenging and highly competitive market.
Directors and one non-executive Director.
Details of their employment The Board assesses its own performance by reference to the financial terms and remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
performance of the business compared to annual budgets, longerThe Board is chaired by Stephen Marks, Chief Executive, founder of the term plans, city expectations and its peers.
David Rockberger is the senior non-executive Director, has served on the Board for two years, has a Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first background in law and is currently Director of Legal and Business Affairs at opportunity after their appointment and one third of the Board is The Music Sales Group, a leading international music publisher.
Neil subject to re-election annually.
Any member of the Board may take Williams is the Operations Director and has worked in the business for independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
twelve years following a training in finance and accounting.
Roy Naismith joined the Board three years ago as Finance Director and previously held Communication with shareholders finance positions at Starbucks Coffee Company and Capital Radio PLC.
Communication with shareholders, brokers and analysts is generally conducted through one-to-one meetings with the executive Due to the size of the Board there are no standing committees and the full Directors for which there is an open invitation to shareholders to Board considers matters such as the report of the auditors and nominations arrange but which typically occur shortly after the announcements of for new Board members.
There have been no new appointments to the results.
The opinions expressed by shareholders are passed to the Board during the year.
14 annual report 2004 The Annual General Meeting and the resolutions proposed for Part two: Compliance with the detailed code provisions consideration at the meeting are a focus of communication with The Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code shareholders.
Discussions are held prior to the meeting with shareholders provisions throughout the accounting period other than as follows: where they have views on the resolutions.
The level of proxy votes received is noted and discussed by the Board.
The Combined Code recommends that there should be a strong independent non-executive element on the Board with non-executive Internal control Directors comprising not less than one third of the Board and a division The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
While system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A system the composition of the Board does not meet this recommendation, the of internal control cannot provide absolute assurance against material Board considers that the Board is effective and appropriate for the misstatement or loss and the Groups systems are designed to manage nature and culture of the Company.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
The systems can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that The Combined Code recommends the formation of audit, remuneration material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a and nomination committees.
Since the Company has only one nontimely basis and dealt with appropriately.
executive Director, such committees have not been established.
The Board does however adhere to certain principles in establishing levels The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures in place for and forms of remuneration and these are detailed in the Directors identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group Remuneration Report.
and that these have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The procedures Going concern have been reviewed by the Board and accord with the Turnbull Guidance The Group has a strong balance sheet, continues to trade profitably and for Directors on the Combined Code.
generates a healthy positive operating cash flow and this is reflected in the current budgets and forecasts for the Group.
Based on this, the The Board has reviewed the major risks affecting the business and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The culture of the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
business results in the executive Directors being closely involved in For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis managing the business at a detailed level.
This provides a high degree in preparing the accounts.
of direct monitoring of risks and control processes, conducted against the background of a culture of integrity, quality and high levels of communication.
This is supported by reviews of daily, weekly and monthly detailed analyses of the performance of the business, the key By order of the Board performance indicators associated with the trading risks facing the Company and the detailed operational results.
Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors is determined by the Chairman and ultimately approved by the Board.
The Chairmans remuneration is Roy Naismith agreed through discussion with the other Directors and is approved by Company Secretary the Board.
