16 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report by Committee Chairman, Sir John Banham The Nomination Committee is candidate specification and a process For some time, prior to and after responsible for reviewing the size and for selection, which will usually Bobs departure, the Committee has composition of the Board: making involve use of an external search been actively seeking a replacement recommendations to the Board on consultancy or open advertising.
through existing contacts and an the appointment of executive and The Committees policy is that all external search company.
We drew non-executive Directors, and their Directors should have written terms up a detailed role and person re-appointment following retirement of appointment non-executive or specification and, early on, identified by rotation: and for ensuring that service contracts executive setting a candidate who, unfortunately, succession planning is in place.
out what is required of them, including was unable to be released from his The Committee meets as required, time commitment.
The Committee company to accept the offer.
Happily, but at least twice a year, and comprises also reviews other significant time albeit some considerable time later, the independent non-executive commitments of any candidate.
we have found another person with Directors and myself.
The Company My other significant commitments the correct financial skills and who also Secretary attends all meetings.
are described in my biography shares our values.
If the bid from At least once a year the Committee on page 14.
Bakkavr does not proceed then he reviews the balance of skills, will be appointed as soon as possible.
knowledge and experience of the During 2004, the six-year term of In the meantime, I would like to thank Board and the Chief Executive Officer Bob Davies expired and he stood David Wallis for taking on the roles is invited to discuss Board and down from the Board at the AGM of both Senior independent nonManagement Board succession.
Bob made a significant executive Director and acting contribution to the work of the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee When seeking a candidate for a and the Audit Committee during his since Bobs departure.
vacancy, the Committee considers tenure and I would like to express the particular skills and knowledge my thanks to him on behalf of the required and approves a job and Company and its shareholders.
Corporate governance Geest PLC 17 Combined Code comply or explain The Board is responsible to shareholders The Board of Directors did not comply for providing entrepreneurial leadership throughout the period ending 1 January within a framework of controls for 2005 with the provisions of the Combined managing risk: setting the Groups Code as set out in the Listing Rules of strategy: maintaining the policy and the Financial Services Authority FSA for decision-making framework in which the following reason.
Since the expiry this strategy is implemented: ensuring of Bob Davies contract in May 2004, that necessary financial and human we have not had the required number resources are in place to meet strategic of independent non-executive Directors aims: monitoring performance against on our Board and Board Committees.
key financial and non-financial indicators: Consequently, since May 2004, our Audit overseeing the system of risk Committee has not included a Director management: and setting values and Management Board with the level of financial expertise standards in governance matters.
Report from the Management required by the Combined Code.
We Board Chairman, Gareth Voyle have been actively seeking a replacement There is a written list of matters and for Bob Davies during the period and decisions which may only be approved The Management Board is have now identified a suitable candidate by the Board.
These include formulation responsible for implementing who is a serving FTSE 250 Finance of strategy, approval of annual budget Group strategy, monitoring Director.
Please see the Nomination and business plan: approval of reported business performance, approving Committee report on page 16. financial statements and dividend: budgets and capital expenditure monitoring of internal controls: approval for recommendation to the In all other respects the Board of Directors of major capital investments of over Board and ensuring efficient has complied with the provisions of the 3 million: Company and business management of the Group.
acquisitions and disposals: and policy in important areas, including In 2004, we faced unprecedented Please note that joint ventures have not health and safety, the environment challenges from the external been dealt with as part of the Group for and community relations.
A full list environment in which we operate the purposes of applying this guidance, is available on request from the and accelerated our improvement although the Group endeavours to Company Secretary.
programme to help manage the promote compliance in these entities.
We have The Board delegates management of provided more detail on the Set out below is a statement the business to the Management Board, trading environment and our of how we apply the principles headed by our Chief Executive Officer, actions in our Operating and of the Combined Code.
The other members of financial review on page 4 the Management Board are the Group onwards.
The role and decisionThe statement of the Directors Finance Director, the Managing Directors making of the Management responsibilities in preparing the accounts of our six divisions, the Group Corporate Board has been critical in is set out on page 26 and the statement Development Director, the Group Human allowing us to meet these from the auditor on its reporting Resources Director and the Business challenges in a cohesive manner, responsibilities is on page 39.
The Improvement Director see pages 8 to 9. whilst reinforcing the important statement on going concern can be found The Management Board meets monthly.
values and culture which on page 25 and further details on relations characterise the Geest with shareholders are on pages 19 and 23.
We have six divisions, each headed businesses.
In each division Structure and decision-making are a number of business units: each Our Company is headed by the Board, one is run by a General Manager.
which normally comprises the Chairman, Please refer to our website, three other independent non-executive www.
co. uk gst ourcompany Directors and three executive Directors.
structure busstructure for more details on our divisional structure.
For Board biographies and details of length of service, please see pages 14 and 15.
18 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Below Board level, there are clear limits Board meetings The Chairman is responsible for leading on the authority that individuals have to The Board has nine scheduled meetings the Board, facilitating the effective make financial commitments see table every year and, in addition, has a twocontribution of all members and ensuring below by way of example.
In addition, day strategy meeting.
On one occasion that it operates effectively in the we have policies setting out minimum each in 2004, Sir John Banham, Bob interests of shareholders.
The Chief standards in important risk areas such Davies and Jane Scriven were unable Executive Officer is responsible for as food safety, financial reporting, to attend one Board meeting: otherwise leadership of the business and treasury, employee matters, health and there was full attendance.
The Board is chaired by a non-executive The Board has agreed that the role Apart from this relatively small number Director, Sir John Banham.
Our Chief of the non-executive Directors, through of rules, our General Managers have Executive Officer is Gareth Voyle and meetings of the Board and its Committees, freedom to run their businesses as they our Senior independent non-executive is to challenge constructively and help see fit in order to meet the demands Director was Bob Davies until May 2004 develop proposals on strategy: review of their customers, and the strategic and since that date has been David Wallis.
management performance and and financial targets that have been the monitoring and reporting of that set by the Management Board and their At each Board meeting, the Chief performance: satisfy themselves of the divisional Managing Director.
We believe Executive Officer updates the Board on integrity of financial information and that that this devolved structure is essential current business matters and the Group financial controls and systems of risk to enable us to make decisions quickly, Finance Director reports on the latest management are robust and defensible: to innovate at the speed demanded by financial position.
The Board also determine the pay and benefits of the the consumer and to give our customers reviews financial and non-financial key executive Directors: and play a prime a product and service that is tailored performance indicators KPIs in food role in Board succession and the to their requirements.
safety and health and safety for each appointment and, where necessary, major business unit, shareholder and removal of executive Directors.
Board Committees share price details and competitor The Board has established several activity.
Papers and or presentations Independence Committees, each with written terms of are considered in matters requiring The Board considers that all of the nonreference.
The terms of reference of the Board approval or decision.
executive Directors are independent Audit, Remuneration and Nomination within the meaning of the Combined Committees are available on our website Presentations are given at least annually in Code including the Chairman, as the on the following link www.
co. uk relation to employees, food safety, health Board considers that the Chairman gst responsibilities governance committ and safety and environment, customers, meets the Codes independence criteria.
ees, or on request from the Company consumer demand, information systems However, since the Combined Code Secretary.
Reports from the Chairmen and business performance.
In addition, does not treat the Chairman as being of these Committees, as well as our papers are submitted annually on other independent after appointment, we do not Safety Committee and Management subjects, including treasury, insurance, count the Chairman as an independent Board, are set out in this section.
pensions and relations with shareholders.
non-executive Director when considering There was full attendance at our compliance with the Combined Code.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Accountabilities Committees in 2004.
For a summary The Chairman and the Chief Executive Company Secretary of Committee members please see Officer have written accountabilities The Company Secretary is responsible, the table on page 21. that have been approved by the Board.
on behalf of the Chairman, for ensuring Summary of financial authorities for capital expenditure proposals Level of capital Chief Executive Officer and Divisional Managing Director and expenditure proposal Board Group Finance Director jointly Divisional Finance Director jointly 3 million 250,000 to 3 million 250,000 Corporate governance Geest PLC 19 that all Board and Committee meetings During 2004, the Board received from as described were completed in 2004. are properly conducted, that Directors our brokers and public relations receive appropriate information prior to advisers an update on current City Additionally, all members of the Board meetings, for ensuring that governance practice under the FSAs continuing were asked to complete a questionnaire requirements are considered and obligations requirements.
As well as relating to the Board and the Board implemented and for recording accurately various Directors' conferences, our Committees processes and the proceedings of each meeting.
Directors also attended seminars performance.
The Chairman reported The Company Secretary is responsible covering subjects including: International the collective findings to the Board for advising the Board on all legal and Accounting Standards, general economic in July and a number of actions were governance matters.
In addition, all outlook and trends, remuneration issues agreed and implemented.
Directors have access to the advice and current trends in remuneration.
of the Company Secretary and to Relations with shareholders independent professional advice where Directors appraisal and Annual General Meeting needed, at the Company's expense.
Our Directors appraisal process is The Board receives regular feedback described below: from executive Directors, following Directors training and professional meetings with shareholders, and there development The Chief Executive Officer appraises is an annual Board report on shareholder All Directors receive necessary training the executive Directors against their relations.
Broker research notes on in their duties and responsibilities written accountabilities and the Geest Geest are circulated to all Board on appointment.
An induction to values, and reports the outcome to the members.
A short summary of our the business, including site visits Chairman.
Similarly, the Chairman and investor relations activities is provided and briefings, is arranged in order for the non-executive Directors appraise on pages 23 and 24.
Directors to view the facilities and meet the Chief Executive Officer.
Our financial PR adviser, Financial Board members also visit sites during The Chairman appraises the Dynamics, provides bi-annual feedback the course of their appointment.
reports from broker analysts and, The Company Secretary supplies all The non-executive Directors, led by similarly, we receive feedback from Directors with information on relevant the Senior non-executive Director, shareholders via our brokers.
Our legal and best practice developments.
All appraisals brokers are invited to a Board meeting The Safety Committees At each meeting we consider a number responsibilities are to oversee the of key performance indicators KPIs, management of food safety, health receive an update on any new and safety and the environment, to developments and review certain issues review legislative and best practice in depth.
The minutes of meetings developments and to make are circulated to all Board members.
recommendations to management and the Board on policy and The Committee met three times required actions.
During the year our Group Technical Director resigned and The members of the Committee are I am delighted that we were able to Safety Committee myself, the Chief Executive Officer, appoint his successor Ann Savage Report by Committee Chairman, the Company Secretary, the Group from amongst our existing Raymond Destin Technical Director and two technical Technical Managers.
The Group Technical Director has the During the year we approved a new, right to raise concerns directly with focused audit template to monitor myself.
The Committee meets three performance against core food or four times each year.
safety standards and a new food safety reporting format for the Board and senior management.
