CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate Any new Directors appointed during the year must seek re-appointment governance throughout the Group.
The Listing Rules of the Financial at the next Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Peter Redfern will Services Authority require the Company to include a statement so seek re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
as to allow shareholders to evaluate how it has applied the principles An induction programme is provided for new Directors which includes of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
This report, the Group and the corporate governance policies and procedures in together with the information set out in the Remuneration Report on operation.
New Non Executive Directors are also provided with the pages 41 to 46, is published pursuant to the Combined Code which opportunity of attending a training course on the role and deals with directors, directors remuneration, relations with and responsibilities of holding such a position.
accountability to shareholders and the audit of the Company.
Together, these sections explain how the Company has applied the principles Formal agendas and reports for Board and Committee meetings are in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
provided to Directors one week prior to the meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE beforehand.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive maintain regular The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the contact with all Directors.
James Jordan is the Group Company Combined Code throughout the year.
Secretary and he attends all Board and Board Committee meetings.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS All Directors have direct access to the Group Company Secretary for During 2004, the Board consisted of the Chairman John Robinson, the advice and services.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for Group Chief Executive Peter Johnson, three other Executive Directors ensuring that the correct procedures are followed at all Board and including Peter Redfern who was appointed to the Board on 12 October Committee meetings.
He reports directly to the Chairman and the 2004 and four Non Executive Directors.
Throughout the year, in line Group Chief Executive.
with the Combined Code, excluding the Chairman, at least half of The Board has adopted a procedure whereby any Director may seek, the Board was comprised of independent Non Executive Directors.
through the ofce of the Group Company Secretary, independent A list of Directors with details of their biographies is set out on page 35. professional advice, at the Companys expense, in furtherance of his The business and management of the Company is the collective or her duties.
responsibility of the whole Board.
At each meeting the Board reviews During 2004 the Board carried out a self appraisal.
The Chairman the performance of each of its trading businesses in detail and during led the process which included meeting separately with each Director each year it undertakes a strategic review.
There is a formal written and also with the Group Company Secretary to discuss and appraise schedule of matters reserved for consideration and approval by the his or her performance, the performance of the Board and each of its Board and these include the annual budget, major land purchases and Committees.
The Senior Non Executive Director carried out a formal investment proposals, the approval of annual and interim results and appraisal of the Chairman and, as part of this process, also liaised with a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
each Director and the Group Company Secretary.
This list was revised and updated by the Board during 2004 as part of an overall review of the terms of reference applicable to the Board BOARD COMMITTEES and its Committees, which also took into account the requirements Nomination Committee of the Combined Code.
The terms of reference can be found on the Current Members: John Robinson Committee Chair, Peter Johnson, Companys investor relations website www.
Michael Blackburn and Brenda Dean who were members throughout the year.
There are four standing Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Each of these Consisting of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the Senior Committees operates within clearly dened terms of reference Independent Non Executive Director and one other independent and reports back to the Board.
Additional information on each Non Executive Director, the Committee meets as and when necessary of these Committees is set out later in this section and, also, in the to consider the appointment of new Executive and Non Executive Remuneration Report in respect of the Remuneration Committee.
A rigorous process is in place for the appointment of new Directors involving the use of external recruitment consultants During 2004 the Board met formally, as a whole, 10 times.
Twice yearly followed by meetings with both the Committee and subsequently the Board spends time with a business unit in the UK and the US with the Board as a whole, together with the Group Company which includes site visits, presentations from local management and Secretary.
This ensures that the selection process is both formal and the opportunity to meet employees.
The Committee has formal terms of reference and meets as During the year, there were no absences from any Board meetings and when appropriate but at least once a year to comprehensively except that David Williams was unable to attend the February meeting.
review succession planning at both Board and senior management level across the Group.
During the year, each of the Non Executive Directors has at all times acted independently of management and has had no relationships During the year, the Committee met on three occasions and there which would materially interfere with the exercise of their were no absences.
independent judgement and decision making.
The Board is of the view Audit Committee that the Non Executive Directors play an important role in upholding Current Members: David Williams Committee Chair, Christine Cross corporate governance and in ensuring that no individual or group and Brenda Dean who were members throughout the year.
dominates the Boards decision making process.
The Committee consists of three independent Non Executive Directors.
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are David Williams is the Group Finance Director of Bunzl plc appointed in separately held and there is a clear division of responsibilities between 1991 and the Board is satisfied, in line with the Combined Code, that each position which was documented during 2004. he has both current and relevant financial experience to chair this Michael Blackburn is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director Committee.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance and served throughout the year in this recognised position.
Director and senior management attend Committee meetings for specic items at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
One third of the Directors must submit themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of The Committee has formal terms of reference.
It receives reports from Association.
In addition each Director seeks re-election every three the external auditors,  LLP PwC, the Internal years in accordance with the Combined Code.
Accordingly, Peter Audit Department and senior management at each meeting.
The Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Christine Cross will retire and offer Committee is responsible for reviewing the external audit process and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE www.
co. uk 39 for monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Presentations are made twice a year to the Companys UK major accounting issues.
The Committee supports the Board in bankers following the announcement of the Companys preliminary reviewing information which is sent to shareholders to ensure that and interim results.
The Company also hosted a number of analyst it presents a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
addition, the Committee reviews the performance and objectivity The Companys joint brokers, Cazenove & Co and ABN Amro Hoare of PwC, the scope of its work and that of the Internal Audit Govett, attend two Board meetings a year to provide feedback on Department and the fees to be paid to PwC for both audit and the shareholder surveys that they each carry out following the non-audit related work.
publication of the Companys results and subsequent meetings During the year the Committee met on three occasions and there with shareholders.
were no absences except that Brenda Dean was unable to attend The Company is pleased to welcome private and institutional one meeting.
shareholders to its Annual General Meeting.
The Board will Corporate Social Responsibility Committee be present at the Meeting to answer questions and will be Current Members: Christine Cross Committee Chair, Brenda Dean, available both prior to and after the Meeting for discussions Stewart Cline who were members throughout the year and Peter with shareholders.
Redfern with effect from 12 October 2004.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Committee consists of two independent Non Executive Directors, The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews the Chairman of Morrison Homes and the Chief Executive of George contained within this document present a balanced and Wimpey UK.
The Committee and its membership demonstrate that understandable assessment of the Companys performance the Company takes Corporate Social Responsibility CSR very seriously.
The sound system of internal control within the The Committee has formal terms of reference and is responsible for Company enables the Board to make this statement.
setting the Companys CSR strategy and policies and for performance The Audit Committee has a policy of not using the Companys monitoring and reporting against identied key performance auditor for non-audit work if this could jeopardise the ability of indicators in areas such as Health and Safety, Environment, Customer the auditor to provide an independent and objective audit opinion.
Care, Supply Chain Management, Employees and the Community.
The Following a competitive tender process, PwC currently carries out Committee also highlights significant social, environmental and ethical routine tax compliance work.
PwC also assisted the Company in its risks and opportunities for the attention of the Board.
The 2004 CSR review of new International Accounting Standards.
The Committee report entitled Securing our future has been sent to all shareholders takes the view that carrying out this non-audit work does not affect and many of our stakeholders, and can also be found on the PwCs objectivity or independence due to its routine nature.
The Companys approach to CSR is also summarised on pages 31 to 33 of this INTERNAL CONTROL Annual Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The implementation and During the year the Committee met on four occasions and there were maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are no absences.
the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
Remuneration Committee It is recognised that the system is designed to manage, rather than Current Members: Michael Blackburn Committee Chair, David Williams eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
and Christine Cross who were members throughout the year.
Consequently, it can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The system has The Committee consists of three independent Non Executive Directors.
been in place throughout the period and is regularly reviewed within Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies are set out in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
The Committee has formal terms of reference.
The Board has reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group faces in its operations as documented in the Group Risk During the year the Committee met on nine occasions and there Schedule.
This Schedule comprises the key risks and is regularly were no absences.
Specic key operational risks include RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS land purchase, health and safety, the environment and product quality.
During the year, the Company has continued to maintain an active The Board, following its review, is satisfied with the process in place for investor relations programme, encouraging constructive two-way risk identication and management.
It is satisfied with current control communication with investors, fund managers and analysts.
mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout Presentations are given at the time of both preliminary and interim the year and the programme of continuous improvement initiatives results and at the Annual General Meeting when investors are invited that has been implemented.
Webcasts of both results presentations, along with the The Group seeks to maintain high standards of business conduct and question and answer sessions, are made available on the Companys operates under an established internal control framework which can website.
During 2004, Non Executive Directors attended both the be described as follows: Companys preliminary and interim results presentations where they were available to meet with shareholders.
Organisational Structure The Group operates through a number of operating businesses, each The Company makes full use of its website www.
to provide information for shareholders and others interested in with its own management board.
Clear reporting lines and delegated authorities are in place.
The management and monitoring of risk and George Wimpey as an investment opportunity.
performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the Group and the Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Terri Wright Group use of interactive review processes provides successive assurance Communications Manager carried out an extensive programme of through the levels of management up to the Board.
meetings with institutional shareholders and investors throughout the year within guidance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Land Purchase and Investment Appraisal There are clearly dened policies and procedures for the purchase of Meetings were held in London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin, Paris, Frankfurt, New York, Boston, Chicago and San Francisco.
The Company land and for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and will consider other visits as appropriate or required.
review requirements and due diligence procedures which incorporate a detailed environmental appraisal of land prior to acquisition.
These Andrew Carr-Locke and David Rallison Group Treasurer held meetings procedures are subject to rigorous review and authorisation.
across the US with investors in the Companys US Private Placement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 40 Development Activity There is an established framework for managing and controlling all site related activity.
This includes extensive health and safety procedures, regular performance monitoring and clear accountability on customer satisfaction.
Financial and Operating Reporting There is a developed budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
profit and cash forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The performance of each business is reviewed monthly by Divisional and Group management and subsequently reported to the Board against both budget and forecast.
Particular emphasis is placed on cash ow, as well as profit and loss and balance sheet reporting, and on key operating issues including health and safety and environmental matters.
Control Self Assessment During 2004, improved procedures were put in place which required each business to report on a regular basis, through a formal Control Self Assessment process, its compliance with the core policies and key controls governing the Group.
This process has also been extended to key non-operational areas.
Treasury The principal treasury related risks, decisions and control processes are documented.
The Treasury Committee, consisting of Andrew Carr-Locke Chair, Peter Johnson, Michael Blackburn, David Rallison Group Treasurer and Rod Ashford Group Tax and Insurance Manager, meets quarterly to consider treasury related issues, decisions and control processes.
All of the above internal controls are subject to ongoing Internal Audit review.
The Internal Audit Department supports the Audit Committee and senior management by independently and objectively reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and the control environment.
The Internal Audit methodology is aligned to the key elements of the Groups internal control framework.
All reviews are formally followed-up to ensure agreed actions have been implemented.
The results of all Internal Audit reviews are presented and discussed in detail at the Audit Committee.
In addition to Audit Committee reporting, Internal Audit findings and conclusions are discussed at both the Group Executive Committee which meets at least monthly and consisted during the year of Peter Johnson Chair, Andrew Carr-Locke, Stewart Cline, Peter Redfern who joined the Committee with effect from 1 January 2004, Steve Parker Executive Vice President, Morrison Homes and President from 1 January 2005, who joined the Committee with effect from 1 November 2004 and James Jordan Group Company Secretary and at Divisional executive meetings of George Wimpey UK and Morrison Homes.
Going Concern The Directors are required under the Combined Code to have satisfied themselves as to the Groups ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
A review has been carried out and the Directors have concluded that the Group has adequate resources and is justied in using the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
