CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect for UK non-executive Directorswithout the executive Directors being present listed companies for reporting yearsbeginning on or after 1 November should this be deemed appropriate.
Following publication of the new Code, the Board reviewed its All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company procedures with a view to complying with its detailed provisions during Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The following paragraphs, together with the report on Directors In addition, Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, take independent remuneration on pages 79 to 87, provide a description of how the main professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
and supporting principles of the Combined Code have been applied within GKN.
The Directors statement of compliance with the Code is given on Chairman and Chief Executive page 78.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997.
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the Company, The Board of Directors the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within Companys business.
a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed: to set the Companys strategic aims, ensure The other significant current commitments of Roy Brown, Chairman, are that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the listed in his biography on page 41.
Mr Brown retired as non-executive Company to meet its objectives, and review management performance: to Chairman of Thus plc in September 2004 and the Board is satisfied that set the Companys values and standards and ensure that its obligations his remaining commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN to its shareholders including reporting to shareholders on the Boards and, in particular, would not do so in the event of GKN being involved in stewardship and others are understood and met.
Specific responsibilities a major corporate transaction or other action.
reserved to the Board include: Induction and professional development setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and mediumOn joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack term projections: which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and reviewing operational and financial performance: details of Board meeting procedures, Directors responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governance-related approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: issues.
This is supplemented by a briefing with the Company Secretary.
reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk management: The Director meets with the Chief Executive to be briefed on the general Group strategy and with the executive Directors in relation to each ensuring that appropriate management development and succession individual business portfolio.
Plant visits are organised as necessary for plans are in place: new Directors.
External training, particularly on matters relating to the reviewing the health and safety and environmental performance of role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, the Group: is arranged as appropriate.
approving appointments to the Board and to the position of Company Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be Secretary, and approving policiesrelating to Directors remuneration identified in annual performance reviews see below or on an ad and the severance of Directors contracts: and hoc basis.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takesplace with shareholders.
of new Directors both into the business and as to their roles and The Directors responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained responsibilities as Directors, as well as with assisting in the ongoing on page 73 their confirmation that they consider it appropriate to prepare training and development of Directors.
the accounts for 2004 on a going concern basis is given on page 30.
Training and development of Directors in 2004 took various forms, A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the Chairman, including visits to GKN plants both with the Board as a whole and on an Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, individual basis, one-to-one briefings by GKN executives and external is available on the GKN website at www.
com and further details consultants, attendance by certain Directors at courses for non-executive of the Boards role in relation to the Groups systems of internal control Directors run by executive educational establishments, professional and risk management are given on pages 77 and 78.
Descriptions of bodies and City solicitors, attendance at external training sessions and the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal seminars on matters relevant to members of remuneration committees, Board Committees are given on pages 75 to 77. an internal briefing on UK and EU regulatory developments, seminars facilitated by external audit firms on the forthcoming implementation The Board currently comprises four executive and seven non-executive of International Financial Reporting Standards and workshops run by Directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the Directors are external bodies on various commercial and regulatory matters.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under the Combined Code not to be independent, all the non-executive Performance evaluation Directors are regarded by the Board as independent and the Board does The effectiveness of the Board and of the principal Board Committees not consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances likely wasevaluated during 2004, building on the in-house process first to affect the judgement of any Director.
The process involved each Director, as well as The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one other attendees at relevant Board Committee meetings, completing meeting at a Group operating company.
Comprehensive briefing papers a detailed questionnaire covering, inter alia, Board and Committee are provided to all Directors one week before Board meetings.
During the composition, arrangements for and content of meetings, Board year there are sufficient opportunitiesfor the Chairman to meet with the objectives and Committee terms of reference, corporate governance 74 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 issues, visits to operating sites, access to information, and administrative subsequent meetings between management and investors.
The results of the evaluation and recommendations for brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors and the Board improvements were reported to the relevant Committees before the is briefed periodically by external financial consultants on investor Board as a whole agreed appropriate changes.
A number of improvements were identified for implementation as a All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders result of the evaluations.
These included: are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Shareholders at the meeting are the formation of three sub-committees of the Executive Committee, advised as to the level of proxy votes received, including the percentage covering operational excellence, technology excellence and governance for and against each resolution together with the level of abstentions, and risk management, which involve senior management below following each vote on a show of hands.
Executive Committee level in these critical areas of the Committees responsibilities the terms of reference of these sub-committees are In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results presentations available on the GKN website : and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture in a style and format which is appropriate changing the arrangements for the review of Group and Divisional to the intended audience.
The GKN website provides information about strategy by the Board: the Group including copies of annual and interim reports and presentations changing the procedures for updating the Board on major restructuring made to institutional investors.
projects in the Group: and Board Committees increasing the emphasis on corporate social responsibility issues at The full terms of reference of the following Board Committeesare available Board meetings and during Board visits to operating sites the Groups upon request and on the GKN website.
social responsibility review is on pages 31 to 38.
The Chairman has conducted performance evaluations of the nonExecutive Committee executive Directors assessing in particular their contribution and The Executive Committee consists of the executive Directors together commitment and of the Chief Executive taking into account the views of with the Group Human Resources Director under the chairmanship of the the other executive Directors and the non-executive Directors.
The Committee is tasked with overseeing and directing this process, a number of assessment areas were identified in advance the activities of the Group, reviewing Group strategy and deciding how and used as a framework for conducting the appraisal interviews.
In the the various risks facing the Group are to be managed.
It also reviews case of Sir Peter Williams, who completed his initial three-year term as a acquisitions and divestments and approves major human resource non-executive Director during the year, the evaluation provides the basis policy issues including management development and training.
It for the recommendation to shareholders set out in the Annual General normally meets monthly.
Meeting circular enclosed with this annual report that he be re-elected As referred to above, during 2004 the Executive Committee established at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Baroness Hogg, as Senior three sub-committees consisting of members of senior management: Independent Director, led the evaluation by the non-executive Directors of the performance of the Chairman, Roy Brown, taking into account the the Operational Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Ian views of the executive Directors.
No actions were considered necessary Griffiths, Group Managing Director GKN Automotive, is responsible as a result of any of the evaluations.
for monitoring and reviewing keyelements that contribute directly to operational performance and the improvement of business health: Director re-election the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Richard All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Clowes, Group Managing Director Corporate Development, is responsible Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
for setting policy and providing guidance and direction in relation to Under the articles of association of the Company, each of the Directors technologies employed across all business areas, and provides input is required to retire by rotation at least once every three years.
Details to the Executive Committee to contribute to the formulation of the of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at an Annual General Groups business strategy: and Meeting are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting circular.
the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Communicating with shareholders the Company Secretary, Grey Denham, is responsible for monitoring Meetings between Directors, senior management and major institutional and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk shareholders are held during the year in accordance with GKNs investor management and corporate social responsibility.
relations programme and when required in relation to particular issues.
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors Chairmans Committee are encouraged to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders, The Chairmans Committee consists of the non-executive Directors in particular the annual and interim results presentations.
together with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
The Committee is a forum for the Chairman and Chief Executive to brief The Chairman offers annually to major investors in GKN the opportunity and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors on particular issues.
to meet with him should they so wish to discuss matters relating to governance, including Directors remuneration, and strategy.
Feedback Audit Committee to the Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
The Audit Committee consists of the independent non-executive Directors.
The Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Board on meetings with Sir Peter Williams assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from investors.
These reports include summaries prepared by the Companys RoyBrown at the conclusion of the Companys 2004 Annual General brokers on the markets reaction to results announcements and the Meeting following Mr Browns appointment as Chairman of the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, who the Audit Committee.
The external auditors have in place processes to joined the Board in December 2004 and was appointed a member ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure of the Audit Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
that, where they do provide non-audit services, their independence is not threatened.
They have written to the Audit Committee confirming The Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial that, in their opinion, they are independent.
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between GKN In 2004, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit reviewing the Groups draft 2003 preliminary annual results services and fees, and makes recommendations to the Board on the announcement and financial statements and 2004 interim results appointment, reappointment or dismissal of the external auditors.
It statement prior to Board approval including consideration of the also reviews bi-annually the Groups systems of internal control and the significant accounting judgements contained therein and reviewing processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The the external auditors detailed reports thereon: Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function see page 78 and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation reviewing the Groups trading update announcement prior to release of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of at the Annual General Meeting: that function.
It also reviews periodically the Groups employee disclosure reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies procedures policy which provides for employees to disclose, in confidence, including changes necessary in the light of the proposed transition instances of wrongdoing by other employees.
to International Financial Reporting Standards: The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset review.
Following the review in 2004, the Committees terms of reference values and International FinancialReporting Standards: were amended to provide for a Committee member to contact the external auditors direct in circumstances where he or she considers it necessary.
reviewing the effectiveness of the 2003 external audit process and recommending to the Board, after due consideration, the reappointment The Audit Committee meets at least five times a year, including meetings of the incumbent external auditorsat the Annual General Meeting: before the annual and interim results announcements and at the planning stage of the annual external audit process.
Members attendance record reviewing the application of the Boards policy on non-audit work at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given on page 77. performed by the Groups external auditors together with the non-audit fees payable to the external auditors in 2003: The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain reviewing compliance with the Groups policy on the employment external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
Should there of former employees of the external auditors: be any disagreement between the Committee and the Board which reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2004 cannot be resolved, the Committee has the right to report the issue accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the accounts, to shareholders within the Companys next annual report.
confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: present at meetings but others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
reviewing reports from the internal audit function and the external The head of the internal audit function and the external auditors usually auditors on the Groups systems of internal control in advance of the attend meetings of the Committee.
At each meeting there is an opportunity announcement of the Groups results for 2003 the internal report for the external auditors, and annually an opportunity for the head of included a summary of and commentary on the annual detailed divisional internal audit, to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive reports on their business risks and internal control processes and management being present.
The Committee has independent access reporting to the Board on the results of this review, and reviewing to the internal audit function and to the external auditors and both the interim updates prior to the half-year results: head of internal audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
receiving regular updates from management on key financial control The Chairman of the Committee has quarterly meetings and regular matters arising in the Group: intervening contact with the head of internal audit and twice yearly reviewing a post-acquisition report on the integration and performance formal meetings as well as ad hoc contact with the external auditors of a significant recent acquisition: on specific matters.
reviewing the risks associated with a major business programme: The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors reviewing the terms of reference, resources, performance and in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
As effectiveness of the internal audit function, its work programme a matter of policy, the auditors are excluded from invitations to undertake for 2004 and quarterly reports on its work and findings during assignments of a purely consultancy nature.
For other non-audit work, the year, and monitoring compliance by Group companies with the policy is that GKN does not use the external auditor unless there its recommendations: and are compelling reasons to do so, i. e. they can provide a unique skill or reviewing the results of the performance evaluation questionnaire a service not readily available from any other source.
Under the policy, see page 74 as it related to the Committee and approving certain agreed by the Board, any proposal to use the auditors for non-audit work consequential changes to the Committees procedures.
must be submitted to the Group Finance Director who will, depending on the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of 76 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Remuneration Committee Directors attendance record The Remuneration Committee consists of the independent non-executive The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Directors under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg.
The Committee is Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2004 responsible for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration was asfollows: Audit Remuneration Nominations of the executive Directors and the Company Secretary in accordance with Board Committee Committee Committee Director 12 meetings 7 meetings 8 meetings 7 meetings a remuneration policy which is approved annually by the Board.
It is also RoyBrown 12 3 3 4 4 7 responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon Chairman from 20 May 2004 which the service of executive  having regard to a Sir David Lees 5 5 4 4 severance policy adopted by the Board, and for monitoring the remuneration Chairman until 20 May 2004 of senior managers just below Board level.
It also prepares for approval Baroness Hogg 12787 by the Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out on Deputy Chairman and pages 79 to 87.
Senior Independent Director The Committee meets periodically when required.
Members attendance Executive Directors record at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given opposite.
No person Kevin Smith 12 7 other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at Chief Executive meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Richard Clowes 12 Director nor the Company Secretary is present when the Committee Ian Griffiths 12 considers, or acts in, matters relating to himself.
Nigel Stein 12 The Committee has access to such information and advice both from a Dick Etches 6 6 within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems b Neal Keating 4 6 necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of Other independent non-executive Directors executive Directors remuneration.
Sir Ian Gibson 11 12 6 7 6 8 5 7 Helmut Mamsch 9 12 5 7 5 8 4 7 Nominations Committee Sir Christopher Meyer 10 12 4 7 7 8 6 7 The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors Sir Peter Williams 12787 and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman of c Dr Klaus Murmann 4 5 3 4 3 4 the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor as Chairman of the Board when the Senior Independent Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend as a member.
a Retired 30 June 2004. b Left service 30 June 2004.
The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations c Retired from the Board 20 May 2004. to the Board on candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company d Mr J N Sheldrick was appointed a non-executive Director on 20 December 2004.
No Board or and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning Committee meetings were held in 2004 following his appointment.
and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Chairmans and Nominations Internal control Committees and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges Remuneration Committees.
It keeps under review the structure, size and its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge management and receives regular reports on such matters.
and experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors, The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Committee meets periodically when required.
Members attendance The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for record at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given opposite.
No person identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at for deciding how these are to be managed.
To assist with this process meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
the Executive Committee established during 2004 a Governance and Risk Sub-Committee.
There is a standing agenda item at every Executive The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the Nominations Committee meeting to enable its membersto advise if any material Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the internal control issues, serious accidents or events having a major Board and as Company Secretary.
These procedures, under which the commercial impact have arisen or any significant new risks have been Committee agrees a description of the role, experience and capabilities identified, with subsequent reporting to the next Board meeting and or for a Director, are available on GKNs website.
The Committee has access Audit Committee if appropriate.
to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the Continuing processes under the oversight of the Governance and Risk appointment of external executive search consultants, where appropriate.
Sub-Committee are in place for all parts of the Group to assess the major risks to which their operations are exposed and the way in which such The procedures referred to above were used in the appointment during risks are monitored, managed and controlled.
The risks covered by these 2004 of John Sheldrick as a non-executive Director.
This included processes include those relating to strategy, operational performance, an assessment of the time commitment expected from the Director.
finance including risk financing and fraud, product engineering, business Independent executive search consultants were used in connection reputation, human resources, health and safety, and the environment.
These processes are summarised in a risk map which is reviewed at least annually by the Audit Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, business risks and to report on whether there has been any material major contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together breakdown in their internal controls.
Companies also have to confirm with an established framework for their appraisal, which includes a annually whether they have complied with statutory and regulatory risk analysis and post-implementation plan, and where appropriate, obligations as well as with internal policies on matters such as competition a post-acquisition review: law, employment, ethics, document management, data protection and receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having employee disclosure.
Risk profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to approved the operating policies and controls for this function: identify accidental risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
performing at least annually a review of the Groups pension fund The objective of the Groups risk management processes is to ensure the arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: sustainable development of GKN through the conduct of its business in a way which: receiving two reports each year, following their review by the Executive Committee, on environmental, health and safety performance of the satisfies its customers: Groups operations.
From 2005, the reports will be extended to cover develops environmentally friendly products and processes: all corporate social responsibility matters: and provides a safe and healthy workplace: reviewing at least annually management development and succession plans.
The Executive Committee also reviews management development protects against losses from unforeseen causes: issues twice a year.
minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources: The Board receives an annual reportfrom the Audit Committee concerning prevents pollution and waste: the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
This report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the maintains proper relationships with our suppliers and contractors: and matters described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it effectiveness of the systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control The Group Risk Management Council which replaced the Group Loss processes and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2004 Prevention Council during 2004 acts as a steering group for loss prevention to discharge this responsibility are described on page 76.
To assist it in and certain sustainable development activities across Group operations.
this role the Committee liaises closely with the internal audit department.
The Council is under the overall supervision of the Governance and Risk This department has a risk-based work programme and its purpose is Sub-Committee referred to above.
to review and test the systems, controls, processes, procedures and practices across the Group.
The head of internal audit reports directly The Groups interest in its major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland, to the Group Chief Executive and the departments reports are seen formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged their respective by the relevant members of the Executive Committee.
The resolution helicopter manufacturing businesses, was sold on 30 November 2004. of any control issues raised by Board members or in reports reviewed Until the disposal, the Finance Director of GKN plc was a member of the by the Audit Committee are discussed in Committee with management.
AgustaWestland Audit Committee responsible for the overview of the corporate governance procedures adopted by AgustaWestland which The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal were appropriate to the business and complied with the requirements control and risk management during the period covered by this annual of both shareholders.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control appended to the Combined Code The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage and, on Corporate Governance the Turnbull Guidance, have been in place where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not Compliance with the Combined Code absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout 2004, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except with regard to The review process the following aspects: The Board reviews the Groups systems of internal control and risk management on an ongoing basis by: Audit Committee membership setting the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional level The Audit Committee did not have a member with recent and relevant and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget and financial experience as required by the Code until the appointment of medium-term projections.
Central to this exercise is a review of the John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, who risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps being joined the Board as a non-executive Director and became a member of taken to manage these: the Audit Committee on 20 December.
Sir David Lees, who was a former Finance Director of GKN, acted as an adviser to the Committee until his reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated retirement as Chairman of the Board in May 2004. forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise Board balance operational and financial performance: As a consequence of the changes to the Board described in the Directors retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy, report on page 72, for a period of approximately six weeks following the and the approval of major capital expenditure, major contracts and Companys Annual General Meeting in May less than half the Directors financing arrangements.
Below Board level there are clearly defined were independent non-executive Directors.
