GlaxoSmithKline 33 Corporate governance This section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the companys reporting disclosures on corporate governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code, including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the US laws and regulations that apply to it.
34 The Board 35 Corporate Executive Team 36 Governance and policy 38 Dialogue with shareholders 38 Annual General Meeting 39 Internal control framework 40 Committee reports 41 The Combined Code 41 US law and regulation 34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance The Board Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 66 Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Sir Christopher Gent Aged 56 Non-Executive Director.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Appointed on 1st June 2004 Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Chairman.
Sir Christopher was the Chief Executive officer of Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors Vodafone plc, until his retirement in July 2003.
He is a Nonof Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a Director of the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt & Co, and is a Senior Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 64 Adviser at Bain & Co.
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Non-Executive Director.
Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 57 Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
She is Ludwig Professor of Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology Chief Executive officer.
Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine and a Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. She holds United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Sir Robert Wilson Aged 61 Appointed on 1st November 2003 John Coombe Aged 59 Non-Executive Director.
Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Retiring on 31st March 2005. of BG Group plc and the Economist Group and was previously Chief Financial officer.
Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for Finance and Investor Relations.
He is a member of the Supervisory Dr Tachi Yamada Aged 59 Board of Siemens AG and the Code Committee of the UK Appointed on 1st January 2004 Takeover Panel and was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Chairman, Research & Development.
Dr Yamada was a NonHSBC Holdings plc on 1st March 2005.
Executive Director, and subsequently an Executive Director, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham, Lawrence Culp Aged 41 he was Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine at the Appointed on 1st July 2003 University of Michigan Medical School and Physician-in-Chief of Non-Executive Director.
Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive the University of Michigan Medical Center.
He was a member of officer of Danaher Corporation.
Prior to joining Danaher, he held the Board of Directors of diaDexus, Inc. until December 2004 and positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
is a Trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund.
Sir Crispin Davis Aged 55 Chief Financial officer Designate Appointed on 1st July 2003 Julian Heslop Aged 51 Non-Executive Director.
Sir Crispin is Chief Executive of Reed Mr Heslop will succeed Mr Coombe as Chief Financial officer Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group with effect from 1st April 2005 when he will also join the Board.
plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was a member Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April of the main board and Group Managing Director of United 1998.
In January 2001, following the merger, he was appointed Distillers.
He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble.
Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Prior to joining Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 57 Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior finance roles at Grand Appointed on 1st June 2004 Metropolitan PLC.
Sir Deryck was formerly Chairman and Other Directors CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He Dr Michle Barzach, Mr Donald McHenry and Mr John McArthur, serves on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center all Non-Executive Directors, retired from the Board following the and NYU Medical Center.
He is also an International Advisory conclusion of the AGM on 17th May 2004 and Sir Christopher Board member of British American Business Inc. and a Board Hogg the former Chairman and Sir Peter Job, both Non-Executive member of the American Academy in Berlin and the Trilateral Directors, retired from the Board on 31st December 2004.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found Sir Ian Prosser Aged 61 on page 37.
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Senior Independent Director.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass PLC latterly Intercontinental Hotels PLC and Chairman of the World Travel & Tourism Council.
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc and a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corporation.
He is also a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 35 Corporate Executive Team CET David Stout President, Pharmaceutical Operations JP Garnier Mr Stout is responsible for the global pharmaceuticals and vaccines Chief Executive officer businesses.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head of its As Chief Executive officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the US Sales and Marketing and was President, US Pharmaceuticals, management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of until his current appointment in January 2003. the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive Chris Viehbacher officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
President, US Pharmaceuticals Mr Viehbacher has been responsible for US Pharmaceuticals since Rupert Bondy January 2003.
He joined Wellcome in 1988 and became Director, Senior Vice President and General Counsel Continental Europe at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999.
He was Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, responsible for GlaxoSmithKlines European Pharmaceuticals together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance business before his current appointment.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995.
Andrew Witty President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Ford Calhoun Mr Witty has been responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals Chief Information officer operations in Europe since January 2003.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global and at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacic function that enables key business processes across all parts of the until his current appointment.
With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith Tachi Yamada Kline & French in 1984.
Chairman, Research & Development Dr Yamada leads the Groups complex business of drug discovery John Coombe and development, creating new medicines through research.
He Chief Financial officer retiring on 31st March 2005 joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member of As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for the Board and became Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999. activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, He was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1st January 2004. investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was Jennie Younger appointed Group Finance Director in 1992.
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships Marc Dunoyer Mrs Younger is responsible for the Groups internal and external President, Pharmaceuticals Japan communications, its image and partnerships with global Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in communities.
She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director March 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice of Investor Relations and was appointed to her current position President and Regional Director, Japan until his current in 2001.
In 2004 she won the European Women of Achievement appointment.
Russell Greig Jack Ziegler President, Pharmaceuticals International President, Consumer Healthcare Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business, and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide nutritional healthcare products.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment 1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer in March 2003.
Dan Phelan Julian Heslop Senior Vice President, Human Resources Chief Financial officer Designate Mr Phelan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, Mr Heslop will succeed Mr Coombe as Chief Financial officer organisation development, leadership development and succession with effect from 1st April 2005, when he will also join the CET.
planning, human resource information systems and employee health management.
He was a lawyer in private practice before Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April joining Smith Kline & French in 1981 and in 1994 was appointed 1998.
Following completion of the merger he was appointed Senior Vice President and Director, Human Resources, SmithKline Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Other members David Pulman Mr Ingram continues to work part-time as Vice Chairman of President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special advisor to the Group and Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply attending CET meetings in that capacity.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was responsible for the North American supply network, manufacturing strategy and logistics until his current appointment in 2002.
38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Dialogue with shareholders In May 2004 the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 594.6 million shares.
During 2004 18.1 million shares were Financial results are announced quarterly.
purchased for cancellation and 69.9 million were purchased and The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when held as Treasury Shares see Note 27 to the Financial statements, its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year Share capital and share premium account.
The exact amount and results are included in the companys Annual Report and Annual timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased Review, which are issued to shareholders.
The companys half-year shares will be held as Treasury Shares rather than being cancelled, results are published in a national newspaper shortly after they are will be determined by the company and is dependent on market released.
The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year conditions and other factors.
results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and in New York.
In addition, there are teleconferences after the Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political release of the first, second and third quarter results for institutional Expenditure investors, analysts and the media.
The Annual Report, Annual At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the Review and quarterly results may also be accessed on the company to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to companys website.
incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place in London and each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
formal notication is sent to shareholders at least one month in Although the company does not make and does not intend to advance.
At the Meeting, a business presentation is made to make such payments or donations to political parties, within the shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally normal meaning of that expression, the denition in the legislation during the Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions.
of EU Political Organisation is wide.
It can extend to bodies, Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support shareholders questions.
Dr Schmitz, Chairman of the Audit including those concerned with policy review, law reform, the Committee, was unable to attend the Companys AGM in May representation of the business community and special interest 2004 because he was convalescing.
Sir Crispin Davis and groups, such as those concerned with the environment.
The Group Mr McArthur were also unable to attend the meeting due to other made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling commitments.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll 291,000 during 2004 353,000 in 2003.
No donations were as required by the companys Articles of Association.
The results made to EU Political Organisations.
of the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the companys website.
Details of the 2005 AGM are Annual General Meeting set out in the section Annual General Meeting see this page.
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 25th May 2005 To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, understand the views of major shareholders about the company, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specic issues, at the meeting will include: as well as general shareholder preferences.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2004 Annual shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a Report programme of regular meetings.
They both speak regularly at external conferences and presentations.
Approving the 2004 Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58 sets out the The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors disclosures on Directors remuneration, including those throughout the year.
required by the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets with Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
All be proposed to approve the Remuneration Report.
Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available to meet with major shareholders if this is requested.
Retirement, election and re-election of Directors Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Mr Heslop, The companys website gives access to current financial and each of whom were appointed Directors since the 2004 business information about the Group.
AGM, will offer themselves for election to the Board.
Share buy-back programme Dr Garnier, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz and Dr Shapiro will In October 2002, following the completion of the 4 billion share retire and offer themselves for re-election to the Board buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company under article 93 of the companys Articles of Association.
announced plans for a further 4 billion share buy-back programme.
Of this programme, 219 million was accounted for Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors in 2002, 980 million in 2003 and 1,000 million in 2004.
The Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint programme covers purchases by the company of shares for  LLP as auditors and to authorise cancellation or to be held as Treasury Shares, in accordance with the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
the authority given by shareholders at the companys AGM in 2004.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 37 Independent Advice The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
The procedure to be Nominations Committee followed is explained in the Corporate Governance section of the The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and companys website.
composition of the Board and the appointment of members of the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board Company Secretary as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority Company Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May are independent, and meets at least once a year to consider 2000.
He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is succession planning and otherwise as necessary.
The Nominations secretary to all the Board Committees.
Committee Report is given on page 41.
Board Committees Corporate Responsibility Committee The Board has established a number of Committees and provides The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the Current membership of these Committees is given in the table regular review of external issues that have the potential for serious below.
impact upon the Groups business and the oversight of reputation management.
The Committee is also responsible for governance Corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility oversight of the Groups worldwide donations and community support.
The Committee meets formally three times a year and Sir Christopher Gent C C has further meetings and consultations as necessary.
Dr JP Garnier Mr J Coombe Financial Results Committee Dr T Yamada The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf Mr L Culp M of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review Sir Crispin Davis M and the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with Sir Deryck Maughan M the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Sir Ian Prosser M M M Director is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a Dr R Schmitz C M meeting is any three members.
To be quorate, each meeting must Dr L Shapiro M include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee Sir Robert Wilson M C and the CEO or the CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
In addition, each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of and approves matters in connection with the administration of each Committee.
The current full terms of reference of each the Groups business, and certain corporate transactions.
The Committee can be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Committee consists of the Directors, CET members and the Corporate Governance section of the companys website.
Audit Committee Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks Directors is normally undertaken by the Chairman and and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen and proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors with the support of the Company Secretary.
Following the and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of appointment of Sir Christopher Gent in June 2004 as Deputy their work.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Chairman, it was decided that the Deputy Chairman would Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and undertake the 2004 performance evaluation of the Board, its otherwise as necessary.
The Audit Committee Report is given Committees and Directors in collaboration with the Committee on page 40 to 41.
Chairmen and the Company Secretary.
The 2004 Board evaluation was conducted by way of a Remuneration Committee questionnaire followed by a private discussion between the The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service Deputy Chairman and each of the Directors, including the and remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the Chairman.
An external consultant was appointed to assist in CET and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it the evaluation of the Audit Committee.
evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as necessary.
Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58.
Sir Crispin Davis and Mr groups, such as those concerned with the environment.
The Group McArthur were also unable to attend the meeting due to other made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling commitments.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 39 Special business Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC The company will seek authority to: The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises EU Political Expenditure several CET members and some of the heads of departments with give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights internal control, risk management, audit and compliance when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues responsibilities.
A direct reporting line to the Audit Committee or otherwise up to a maximum of five per cent of the provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive management current issued share capital should the need ever arise.
purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued share capital The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant amend the companys Articles of Association: to enable the risks and their mitigation plans.
The ROCC, responding to the company in certain circumstances to meet costs incurred by Group policy referred to above, has provided the business units the company associated with resolutions requisitioned by with a framework for risk management and upward reporting shareholders: to bring the Articles of Association in line with of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identication of a new legislation regarding the indemnification of directors: manager with overall responsibility for management of any and to clarify the circumstances in which an ADR holder given risk is a requirement.
can speak at company meetings.
Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs Internal control framework Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
Membership often The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate.
The The structure of accountability and audit operated in RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are considered GlaxoSmithKline is as follows.
important for their respective business units, including those risks The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the that are designated as significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed company, including financial, operational and compliance controls across the Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant such review to the Audit Committee, which receives reports risks to the ROCC.
from those individuals identied in the Committees Report on pages 40 to 41.
It is the responsibility of management, through Compliance functions the CET, to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET In a number of risk areas, specic standards that meet or exceed is responsible for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist key policies that go to the heart of how the Group conducts audit and compliance groups for example Corporate Environment, business.
The internal control framework includes central direction, Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide resource allocation and risk management of the key activities of Regulatory Compliance assist in the dissemination, implementation research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, and audit of these standards.
legal, human resources, information systems and financial practice.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results department which is responsible for supporting the development of operating units are reported monthly and compared to the and implementation of practices that facilitate employees budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
compliance with laws and Group policy.
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is clearly law or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with delegated to local business units, supported by a regional all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels, and management structure.
These principles are designed to provide effective compliance systems.
an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance officer, who control within the Group.
reports directly to the CEO.
The Corporate Compliance officer chairs the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and activities and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and Audit Committee on a regular basis.
A Group policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates that business units establish processes for managing Areas of potentially significant risk and monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Note 30 to the Financial statements, Legal proceedings and Risk factors The internal control framework also relies on the following for on pages 76 to 78. overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
40 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Effectiveness of controls Accordingly, the Board has chosen not to nominate any one The internal control framework has been in operation for the committee member as having recent and relevant financial whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to experience as dened by the Combined Code.
the date of approval of this report.
The system of internal controls In arriving at its conclusion, the Board considered the following is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not points.
Dr Schmitz has been the Chairman of the Committee achieving business objectives and can only provide reasonable and since April 2001.
Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Director of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to Glaxo Wellcome plc, where he served on the Audit Committee.
the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration Dr Schmitz has also been a member of the Executive Board of of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually to the Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
He retired from that Board in Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Such controls may mitigate 2000 having been in charge of investment banking.
Dr Schmitz but cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, there are areas of the was formerly a member of the Executive Board of Directors of Groups business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a BASF from 1980 to 1990, including CFO from 1985 to 1990. satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D He holds an MBA from Insead.
Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later and in acquiring new products or businesses.
In these cases it CEO of Bass PLC and is a member of the Institute of Chartered is the Groups objective to apply its expertise in the prudent Accountants in England and Wales.
Sir Robert Wilson began his management rather than elimination of risk.
The Directors review professional career as an economist.
He is Chairman of BG Group relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend plc.
He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman, from investments.
Sir Deryck Maughan was appointed a member of the Committee on 21st January 2005.
He was The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Citigroup International assessment of risks and the internal control framework that and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc.
Prior to the creation of operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief Executive officer of of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the Salomon Smith Barney.
He was also Chairman and Chief Executive year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by officer of Salomon Brothers.
Sir Peter Job, who retired from the the Board.
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the Board on 31st December 2004, was CEO of Reuters plc from system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal 1991 to 2001 and brought considerable industrial experience to control issued by the Turnbull Committee in 1999. his role as a member of the Committee.
Committee reports The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends the Committees meetings, and it has available to it Audit Committee Report financial resources to take independent professional advice when The Audit Committees role ows directly from the Boards considered necessary.
Meetings of the Committee are attended oversight function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global any activity within its terms of reference.
The Committee has Internal Audit GIA, Corporate Compliance officer and the written terms of reference which have been approved by the external auditors.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities it has been assigned.
The In 2004, the Committee worked to a structured programme of Committees main responsibilities include reviewing the corporate activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to accounting and financial reporting process, monitoring the consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to integrity of the companys financial statements, evaluating the coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical activities of each of the Groups compliance audit functions and accounting policies and practices used by the company, overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes alternative accounting treatments which had been discussed of practice.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address with management and the resultant conclusion by the external regularly the relationships between management and the internal auditors, material written communications with management and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting and any restrictions on access to information relationships and tiers of accountability between these parties.
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company CET and senior managers covering the key compliance activities and on technical financial and accounting matters of the Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, the General Counsel reported on material litigation sales and marketing and EHS.
the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance The Committee is entirely composed of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee members bring considerable financial and the Heads of each of the Groups compliance and audit groups accounting experience to the Committees work.
Members have reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources past employment experience in either finance or accounting roles and on the results of audits conducted throughout the year or comparable experience in corporate activities.
the Corporate Compliance officer reported on the activities The Board has determined that the combined qualications and undertaken by the ROCC experience of the Committee members, when taken together with its modus operandi, give the Committee collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its responsibilities.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 41 the Company Secretary as Chairman of the Disclosure When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers Committee reported on matters that affected the quality and the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit timely disclosure of financial and other material information the Board most signicantly for each appointment.
Broad selection to the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders.
This criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between the enabled the Committee to review the clarity and completeness representation of UK and US markets, and having individuals with of the disclosures in the published annual financial statements, CEO experience and skills developed in various sectors and interim reports, quarterly and preliminary results specialities.
Professional search agencies are engaged specialising announcements and other formal announcements relating to in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers financial performance prior to their release by the Board.
of potential Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee and candidates are short-listed for interview after The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the considering their relevant qualications.
New Non-Executive full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys Directors offer themselves for election at the companys next corporate accounting and financial reporting.
Their appointments are announced publicly.
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence A customised induction process was conducted for each of the from management and encourages the external and internal new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience auditors to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
and taking account of their different backgrounds.
This process In 2004, the Committee met both collectively and separately with included meeting key members of the CET and other senior the external auditors and the Head of GIA, without members of executives and, in some cases, visiting particular operational management being present.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a In the case of the appointment of the new CFO, the Committee recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, considered the particular skills, knowledge and experience required reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually to be the CFO of GlaxoSmithKline.
The Committee considered assessing the qualications, expertise, resources and independence a number of potential external and internal candidates before of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
recommending to the Board to approve the appointment of Mr Heslop.
The Board approved Mr Heslops appointment, which In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which was publicly announced in October 2004.
Mr Heslop will offer detail the relevant regulatory requirements required of external himself for election at the companys AGM in May 2005. auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the requirements.
Where the external auditors The Committee met three times during 2004 in full session and provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor twice on a quorate basis.
All members were present at the full objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy meetings.
requiring pre-approval by the Audit Committee for such services.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out on Remuneration Report page 104.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 43 to 58.
The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the The Combined Code external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them Throughout 2004, the company complied with the Code provisions a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards of the Combined Code, except as follows: are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit B.
1.1 - In designing schemes of performance-related are not compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual remuneration, the Remuneration Committee should follow audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
the provisions in Schedule A to the Code.
Item 6 of The company also has well-established policies, including a Code Schedule A states that, in general, only basic salary should of Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility be pensionable.
The companys position is explained in the for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58. waivers to the code were made in 2004.
C. 3.1 - The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member The Committee met in full session five times in 2004 and five of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial times on a quorate basis.
Each full session was attended by all experience.
The companys position is explained on page 40. members except Sir Peter Job, who was unable to attend two D. 2.3 - The Chairman should arrange for the Chairmen of the meetings.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors Nominations Committee Report to attend.
The companys position is explained on page 38.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference include responsibility for proposing the appointment of Board and US law and regulation Committee members.
During 2004, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Mr Heslop.
GlaxoSmithKline because the companys shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
In the case of the Chairman, the Committee focused on identifying an individual of the calibre and experience required to chair a complex global organisation.
42 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance NYSE rules based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other f In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of USA, provided that the company explains any significant variations.
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report This explanation is provided on the companys website.
and Form 20-F they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 controls and procedures that ensure that material information Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in is made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 these controls and procedures as at the year end, the results Sarbanes-Oxley.
Sarbanes-Oxley established new standards for of such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and corporate accountability for companies listed in the USA.
Although Form 20-F and have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form the companys corporate governance structure was believed to 20-F any changes in internal controls over financial reporting be robust and in line with best practice, certain changes were during the period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F necessary to ensure compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission materially, the companys internal control over financial SEC, GlaxoSmithKline established a Disclosure Committee.
The reporting Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, and the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering affect adversely the companys ability to record, process, the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining summarise and report financial information and any fraud the disclosure and treatment of that information.
It also has regardless of materiality involving persons that have a responsibility for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the significant role in the companys internal control over financial formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
The CEO and CFO have completed these certications, which will Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. statement as to whether a member of the companys Audit Committee is an audit committee financial expert.
Controls and procedures The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and The Board has reviewed the qualications and backgrounds of with the participation, of the Groups management, including the the members of the Audit Committee and determined that, CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation although no one member of the Companys Audit Committee is of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at an audit committee financial expert, the combined qualications 31st December 2004.
There are inherent limitations to the and experience of the Audit Committee members, when taken effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, together with its modus operandi, give the Audit Committee including the possibility of human error and the circumvention collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its or overriding of the controls and procedures.
For an explanation of the basis for the Boards judgement, refer to page 40.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control For accounting periods ending on or after 15th July 2005, objectives.
Based upon the Groups evaluation, the CEO and CFO Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the companys Form 20-F contain a have concluded that, as at 31st December 2004, the disclosure report stating the responsibility of management for establishing controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports and assessing the effectiveness of the companys internal control the Group les and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act over financial reporting.
Although the company is not required to of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and report compliance in its 2004 Form 20-F, management has reported as and when required.
undertaken a process to ensure that it will be in a position to report compliance by the due date.
There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during 2004 that have materially affected, or Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal the CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: control over financial reporting.
they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or omissions
