48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 31 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 31 32 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT Continued 1.
RECONCILIATION OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 3.
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Group operating profit 26.8 36.9 Decrease Increase in cash 4.4 2.4 Exceptional items 1.0.
Cash flow from movement in debt and leasing hire purchase obligations 3.5 36.0 Depreciation 34.5 25.3 Increase decrease in cash on deposit 31.9 4.0 Goodwill charges 69.4 23.1 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 31.0 34.4 Amortisation of franchise bid costs 0.4.
Amortisation of debt issue costs.
0.3 Profit on disposal of tangible assets 1.2 0.2 Leasing obligations of subsidiaries acquired in year 9.2.
Profit on sale of joint venture.
0.1 Cash on deposit acquired in the year 9.1.
Decrease in stocks 0.4 0.6 Issue of loan notes 0.7.
Increase decrease in debtors 5.9 3.6 Increase in creditors 24.9 5.4 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash flows 0.8 0.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 150.3 94.6 Movement in net debt in the year 30.2 34.1 Net debt at 28 June 2003 61.7 95.8 2.
PURCHASE OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 2004 2003 Net debt at 3 July 2004 31.5 61.7 m m Net Assets acquired Tangible fixed assets 23.4.
ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT Stocks 0.4.
At 28 June Cash At 3 July 2003 Flow Acquisitions 2004 Debtors 3.1. m m m m Creditors 9.1.
Debt due in less than one year Goodwill 12.5.
Debt due after one year Expenses 0.5.
Finance lease and hire purchase obligations 39.2 34.3 9.2 82.7 33.3.
Cash on short term deposit 19.0 31.9 9.1 60.0 Net debt 61.7 31.0 0.8 31.5 During the year, the subsidiary undertakings acquired contributed 6.4m to the Groups net operating cash flows, paid 0.7m in respect of net returns on investments and servicing of finance, paid 1.0m in respect of taxation, utilised 0.4m for capital expenditure and received 1.4m in financing.
RESTRICTED CASH Included in cash at bank and cash on short-term deposit are balances amounting to 54.4m 2003 - 34.0m held by the train companies which cannot be distributed by means of a dividend.
48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:18 PM Page 33 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 34 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES GOODWILL For acquisitions prior to 27 June 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions was set off directly against reserves.
Goodwill previously BASIS OF PREPARATION eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated on implementation of FRS 10.
In the event of subsequent disposal of the business The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain properties, and in to which it related, goodwill will be charged or credited to the profit and loss account.
accordance with applicable accounting standards.
True and fair override provisions of the Companies Act 1985 have been invoked, as Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since 28 June 1998 is capitalised and carried as an asset on the balance sheet.
Fair value described in goodwill below and note 11. accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions, some adjustments are made using provisional estimates, based on BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION information available, and amendments are sometimes necessary in the following period, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and each of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 3 July 2004.
Each acquisition is assessed individually to determine if the estimated useful life of the goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
No Entities in which the group holds an interest on a long term basis and are jointly controlled by the group and one or more other amortisation is provided where the board is of the opinion that to do so would not show a true and fair view of the profit for the ventures under a contractual arrangement are treated as joint ventures.
In the group accounts, joint ventures are accounted for using year or the financial position of the group at the end of the year.
This overrides the requirement of the Companies Act 1985 to the gross equity method.
amortise goodwill and it is in compliance with FRS 10.
ACCOUNTING FOR DEBT ISSUE COSTS Where the useful life is not considered indefinite, the goodwill is amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over Debt issue costs are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of the relevant debt at a constant rate on the carrying the estimated useful life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by In either case, goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition.
Where goodwill is the debt issue costs charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the accounting period.
not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed.
An impairment review is also carried out on goodwill being amortised if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
LEASING AND HIRE PURCHASE COMMITMENTS Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed FRANCHISE BID COSTS to the group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital A key part of the groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
All franchise elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as an expense irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the profit and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire Directly attributable incremental third party costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status are capitalised.
purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Capitalised franchise bid costs are classified as an intangible asset which is amortised on a straight line basis over the expected period Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
of the franchise in question.
The carrying value of such assets are reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the award of the franchise and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may OPERATING LEASE INCENTIVES not be recoverable.
The group recognises the aggregate effect of operating lease incentives as an element of rental expense.
The value of the incentives is included within accruals and deferred income and is allocated on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period to the first rent STOCKS review or the life of the lease.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TAXATION The group uses energy derivatives to hedge fuel price exposures.
The group considers these instruments qualify for hedge accounting The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences and are not revalued to fair value or shown on the group balance sheet.
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
INSURANCE The group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public liability claims through third party insurance policies.
These Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits.
where otherwise required by accounting standards, no timing differences are recognised in respect of: An accrual is made within Creditors: amounts falling due within one year for the estimated cost to the group to settle claims for property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to sell the asset: incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.
The estimation of the balance sheet uninsured gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: claims accrual is made after taking appropriate professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on additional tax which would arise if profits of overseas joint ventures were distributed: and known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the group.
deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Land is not depreciated.
The cost or valuation of other tangible assets including assets held under finance leases and hire purchase Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted rates at which it is estimated the tax will be payable.
The deferred tax provision is not discounted contracts is depreciated evenly over the expected useful lives of the assets as follows: to net present value.
PENSION BENEFITS Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 50 years The group operates retirement benefit schemes, both defined benefit and defined contribution.
In respect of the defined benefit schemes, the pension benefits are funded over the employees average period of service.
The net pension cost to the company as Short leasehold property The remainder of the lease determined from the latest triennial actuarial valuation and subsequent actuarial reviews is charged to the profit and loss account, in Rolling stock 8 to 15 years accordance with SSAP 24.
Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years Contributions payable under the money purchase schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
The transitional arrangements of FRS 15 have been adopted for group properties, which permit the previous revaluation, performed as at 27 June 1998, to be retained.
No further revaluations are planned.
Other fixed assets are shown at historical cost to the group.
Heavy maintenance costs of assets held under operating lease are capitalised where the conditions of the lease provide that these costs are borne by the lessee.
These costs are depreciated evenly over the period to the next expected date for heavy maintenance.
