Corporate Governance The Combined Code Sir Michael Darrington Managing Director, 63, qualified as a Chartered Accountant and then spent 17 years with United Biscuits, latterly in General Management.
During The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate this time he attended the PMD course at Harvard Business School.
He joined Greggs governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
in 1983 and was appointed Managing Director in January 1984.
The Board considers that except as stated in this paragraph it has complied throughout Malcolm Simpson Finance Director, 63, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with what the period under review with the principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the is now KPMG and then worked for eight years within the finance department of Procter revised Combined Code on corporate governance appended to the Listing Rules and Gamble Limited.
He joined the Company in 1973 and was appointed Financial published by the UK Listing Authority the Combined Code effective during the Director in 1975. financial year.
With effect from 1 January 2003 the executive directors agreed without compensation to a reduction in their notice periods to one year, save that they would Stephen Curran, 61, joined the Board in 1981.
He was appointed Chairman of Candover be entitled to a payment by way of liquidated damages calculated by reference to a Investments plc in May 1999, having previously been Chief Executive of Candover since two year notice period if termination were to take place within 12 months following a January 1991.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, he was a managing consultant change of control of the Company.
This arrangement, which was in place throughout with Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then an investment manager with what is now 2004, is not in compliance with the revised Combined Code.
With effect from 1 January Cinven.
With effect from the close of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 2005, the executive directors agreed without compensation to reduce their notice he replaced Sonia Elkin as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
periods and rights to compensation to which they are entitled in all circumstances to a Ian Gregg OBE, 65, qualified as a solicitor before joining the Company as Executive maximum of one year.
Chairman and Managing Director on the death of his father in 1964.
He built the business The following statements describe how the relevant principles and provisions of the up from a single-shop operation to a multi-divisional specialist retailer with almost 300 Combined Code were applied to the Company in 2004 and will be relevant to the shops by the time of its successful flotation in 1984.
Following the appointment of Mike Company for the 2005 financial year.
Darrington as Managing Director in January 1984, Ian continued in the role of Executive Chairman until July 1993.
He was then invited to become non-executive Chairman, The Board which role he handed over to Derek Netherton in August 2002.
The Board, under the chairmanship of Derek Netherton, meets regularly to discharge Susan Johnson OBE, 47, was appointed to the Board in March 2000.
She obtained an its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews Group strategy, performance, resources, risk MBA in 1993 after which she pursued a career in sales and marketing before being management procedures and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the executive appointed as Chief Executive of the Northern Business Forum.
She is now an Executive responsibility for running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Managing Director of Yorkshire Forward.
Director, Mike Darrington, the non-executive directors fulfil an essential role in ensuring that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and critically Bob Bennett, FCA, 57, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He trained as examined prior to adoption.
During 2004, the Board met five times.
All directors a chartered accountant with Spicer & Pegler and has, since 1993, been Group Finance attended all meetings, save that Bob Bennett and Stephen Curran were each unable to Director of Northern Rock plc.
With effect from the close of the Companys Annual attend one meeting.
General Meeting in 2004 he replaced Sonia Elkin as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board has adopted a paper identifying the separation of the roles of the Chairman Julie Baddeley, 53, was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
She has held senior and the Managing Director.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and executive roles in the Woolwich plc where she was responsible for Information ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of Technology and Human Resources, Accenture and Sema Consulting.
Julie is a nona quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board considers that it executive director of Yorkshire Building Society, Computerland UK and the Pension effectively leads and controls the Company.
All directors take decisions objectively and in Client Group within the Governments Department of Works and Pensions.
the interests of the Company.
The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of The Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive directors including performance.
All directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses can dominate the Boards decision taking.
The Board is satisfied that a strategy is in and or activities outside the Company.
The Board meets with the Management Board place for orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior management so at a different operating division each year as part of the process of maintaining an as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company awareness of the companys activities and assessing the ability of the management team.
This meeting also affords senior managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, all of the non-executive of the Board.
The Company has also adopted whistle blowing procedures enabling directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement employees to bring matters to the attention of the senior management and for the and to be free from any business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely confidential, proportionate and independent consideration and follow-up of any matter to affect or to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
relationships might appear to be capable of affecting the individual non-executive The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 2 executive and 5 non-executive directors independence.
However, having considered these relationships carefully, the directors as follows: Board is of the view that they do not and that the individuals concerned are of sufficient strength of character to avoid allowing their independence to be so compromised: Derek Netherton Chairman, 60, spent his career in investment banking and retired in 1996 from his position as joint head of corporate finance at J Henry Schroder & Co Ian Gregg is a member of the Companys pension scheme and a former employee, Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Next plc, Hiscox plc and St Jamess Place Managing Director and Chairman of the Company.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2002 and was appointed Stephen Curran and Ian Gregg have both served on the Board for more than 9 years Chairman in August of the same year.
There have been no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during 2004. from the date of their first election.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 46 47 The Board is grateful for the continued involvement of Ian and Stephen, who bring During 2004 it met three times.
All Committee members attended all meetings in the considerable experience and insight to Board discussions.
Both are now required by period they were members, save that Bob Bennett and Stephen Curran were each unable the Companys Articles of Association to seek re-election to the Board by shareholders to attend one meeting.
The Committees main duties are to determine the basic salary, annually see below.
benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, performance-related bonuses, share options and pension benefits of the executive directors and the Chairman on The Board is continuing to take steps to add to the number of independent nonbehalf of the Board.
The Committee is also responsible for the operation of the Companys executive directors on the Board.
share option schemes and, when requested by the Board or by the Managing Director, The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors must retire and seek for monitoring and making recommendations in respect of the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
A separate Executive Director Committee sets, re-election at the first AGM following appointment.
Thereafter, one half of the directors after discussion with the Chairman, the fees for the non-executive directors so as to other than those appointed since the last AGM being those who have been in office ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
The Directors longest since last re-election and any other director who has not been elected or Remuneration Report is set out on pages 42 to 45 of this Annual Report.
re-elected at either of the two preceding AGMs must seek re-election at each AGM.
A resolution was adopted at the AGM in 2004 to alter the Companys Articles of The Nominations Committee currently comprises Derek Netherton - Chairman, all of Association to require non-executive directors to seek re-election annually after they the non-executive directors and Mike Darrington.
During 2004 it met formally only once have served for over 9 years on the Board.
with all committee members except Bob Bennett present but held several informal discussions during the year in order to progress the selection and recruitment of new All directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the non-executive directors.
The Committees main functions are to review the balance and expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether directors retiring by rotation is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all directors is evaluated annually process for setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates by a formal and rigorous process.
Each director completes a questionnaire on the who meet that specification and making recommendations to the Board on the basis of performance of the Board, the Chairman, the non-executive directors, the executive merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
directors and the Board Committees.
The results are collated by the Company Secretary In relation to the appointment of Julie Baddeley, the Nominations Committee defined and fed back to the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and then to the the criteria on the basis of its assessment of the skills required which it agreed with the Board for discussion.
Members of the Audit Committee complete a separate additional Board, engaged a recruitment consultant and held a series of interviews before deciding questionnaire, the results of which are collated by the Company Secretary and fed back to recommend the Board to offer the role to Julie as its preferred candidate.
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and then to the Board for discussion.
In addition, the Chairman holds structured discussions with each director.
The Senior Non-Executive Relations with shareholders.
Director conducts a similar discussion with the Chairman.
These discussions are also The Chairman ensures that there is effective communication with individual and used to identify individual and collective training needs.
institutional shareholders through the announcement of regular trading updates, as well The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which as general presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results and has written terms of reference, which are available on request.
The Company Secretary the posting of results on the Companys website.
acts as secretary to each of these Committees.
The Board considers that the AGM is the main forum for communication with investors, The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent non-executive directors with the Chairmen of the Board and its committees available to answer any issues raised Bob Bennett - Chairman, Susan Johnson, Stephen Curran and Julie Baddeley.
During and any newly appointed non-executive directors being available to meet shareholders.
All Committee members attended all meetings in the period In addition, the Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of they were members, save that Bob Bennett and Stephen Curran were each unable the Board to all relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also reviews briefings to attend one meeting.
The Committees main functions are to endeavour i to ensure and comments by analysts in order to maintain an understanding of market perceptions that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: ii to of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have monitor the integrity of the financial statements and information published by the concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Managing Director Company: iii to review the Groups approach to risk management: and iv to monitor or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which such contact is not appropriate.
compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Combined Code.
At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution and the The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim financial number of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, including the receipt of the statements issued to shareholders, compliance with financial reporting standards and the annual report and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
size and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee also considers and makes Accountability, Audit and Going Concern.
recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence and objectivity of the external auditors including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by them and The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable their suitability for re-appointment.
The Audit Committee determines the scope of the assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements external audit in discussion with the external auditors and agrees their fees in respect of contained in the Chairmans statement and Managing Directors report, which supplement the audit.
The Committee normally meets with the Finance Director and the external the statutory accounts themselves.
A statement of directors responsibilities in respect auditors in attendance, although time is set aside annually for discussion between the of the preparation of accounts is given on page 19.
Committee and the external auditors and with the internal auditors, in each case in the The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys absence of all executive directors, and the Committee has the power to engage outside auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit The Remuneration Committee currently consists entirely of independent non-executive Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired by such work non-audit fees directors Ian Gregg Chairman, Stephen Curran, Bob Bennett and Julie Baddeley.
amounted to 91,000 during 2004 and related mainly to taxation compliance services.
Corporate Governance continued The Company has an internal audit function.
This assists in its monitoring of systems of Policies and Procedures control and augments the examination carried out by the external auditors.
Policies and procedures, covering control issues across appropriate aspects of the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has business, are defined and communicated to the respective managers and staff at all adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Adherence is monitored and reported upon on an ongoing basis.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Health and Safety Risk Management.
The Company is committed to improving continuously the working environment with The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which the objective that accidents and work related ill health should be progressively reduced.
covers all aspects of the business, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, any such An occupational health strategy has been produced with Health and Safety Officers and system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Occupational Nurses appointed in every Division.
Targets are set and programmes are achieve the Companys objectives and, therefore, is only able to provide reasonable, devised to implement them.
This approach involves a rigorous health assessment, during and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors which hazards are identified, risks assessed, control measures applied and improvement regularly review the risks to which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation actions agreed to manage residual risks to an acceptable level.
and effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
This is an ongoing process which Financial Reporting accords with the guidance in the Turnbull report, involving the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Company.
Key elements of the The Company operates a comprehensive financial control system that incorporates internal control system, which have been in place during the whole of the period Divisional Financial Controllers who have responsibility for financial management within under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, are: each Division.
Each Divisional Financial Controller works closely with their respective Divisional Managing Director to monitor performance at Divisional Board level as Board of Directors against planned and prior year comparatives.
In addition, assets and liabilities are The Board takes a proactive approach to the management of all forms of risk, and views scrutinised at several levels on a regular basis and remedial action taken where required.
risk management as a vital constituent of its role.
The Board holds five scheduled A comprehensive annual planning process is carried out which determines expected meetings a year.
At each of these meetings the effectiveness of the controls relating to levels of performance for all aspects of the business.
Each Divisional Financial Controller the most significant risks i. e. those which may restrict the Companys ability to meet its also reports directly to the Finance Director on technical matters.
objectives are monitored and reviewed.
Remedial action is determined where Internal Audit appropriate.
For some key risks, where it is felt necessary, specialist advice is sought from external agencies and professional advisers.
The Board also reviews, at least annually, The internal audit function visits every Division at least once in every financial year and the level and scope of insurance cover maintained within the business.
The Board reviews performance of the Division across a range of financial and non-financial receives reports from management on significant changes in the business and external requirements, reporting findings to the relevant senior managers and direct to the Audit environment which might affect the risk profile.
It has also set in place a system of Committee.
regular hierarchical reporting which provides for relevant details and assurances on the The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal assessment and control of risks to be given to it.
control covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and Management Board risk management systems during the period under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Management Board, answerable directly to the Managing Director, is responsible for implementing decisions of the Main Board and providing protection against the major risks by various techniques, including sharing best practice, monitoring, supervision and training.
Risk Committee A Risk Committee, consisting of the heads of each management function within the business including Health and Safety, Food Safety, Personnel, Production and Purchasing, has responsibility for analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk environment, as well as devising a sound risk management strategy for review and approval by the Board.
The Risk Committee reports it findings and important changes to the Board on a regular basis through personal presentation, narrative reports and key performance indicators internal and external to the organisation.
The Risk Committee also feeds the results of its assessments back into the business planning for each division at least annually.
The risks are assessed on a regular basis across all functional areas but, in particular, the areas of food safety, health and safety, information flow, asset protection and Regulatory Requirements.
