During the year ended 31 March 2004, the Board met formally six times, of which one was a two day Corporate governance strategy meeting.
Additional meetings were held by telephone when necessary.
Directors attendance at formal Board meetings was as follows: Regular Board Regular Board Present at meetings for meetings strategy Director which eligible attended conference?
RM Bernard 6 6 Yes The Combined Code on Corporate Governance RN Gilbert 6 5 Yes the Existing Code was revised in July 2003 following A Ross Goobey 2 1 Yes reports from Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith M Barnes 6 6 Yes and the revised Combined Code the New Code S Duffy 6 4 Yes now forms part of the listing rules of the Financial P Hodgson 1 1 Yes Services Authority.
R Lewis 6 6 Yes P Michael 6 6 Yes The Company is not required to report compliance S Orchard 6 6 Yes with the New Code until the publication of the W Pallot note 6 4 Yes Annual Report for the financial year ending SJ Pirie 6 6 Yes 31 March 2005.
However the Board believes JPE Taylor 2 2 N A that, without ignoring the Existing Code which is becoming obsolete, it will be more helpful to SC Ward 2 1 N A focus in this Annual Report on the extent of the JP Williams note 6 4 Yes Companys current level of compliance with the more stringent New Code.
The paragraphs at the Note: W Pallot took maternity leave from 7 July 2003 end of this section therefore provide disclosures in to 30 September 2003: JP Williams missed two meetings accordance with and discuss in detail the extent whilst on a three month sabbatical.
of compliance against the New Code.
The Board has also included a brief summary of the extent of The statement of directors responsibilities is on compliance against the Existing Code.
The Board Board Committees The Board currently consists of four executive The Board has established three Committees.
Each directors including the Executive Chairman and Committee has written terms of reference approved eight non-executive directors.
The Board has by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are determined that four out of the eight non-executive available from the Company Secretary and will be directors are independent.
The Board considers that on display at the Annual General Meeting of the this able and experienced non-executive team Company.
It is intended that these terms of reference gives effective oversight of the senior management will be published on the Companys website during team.
Biographical details including relevant the coming year.
qualifications of all the directors and their respective Board and Committee responsibilities Nomination Committee are identified on page 36.
At the beginning of the reporting year, the Nomination Committee comprised RM Bernard Executive The Board meets regularly throughout the year and Chairman and two non-executive directors, S Duffy special meetings are convened when required.
A Ross Goobey joined the Committee Directors receive Board information at least five days on 5 February 2004.
The Nomination Committee prior to the day of each Board meeting, and the does not have a fixed schedule of meetings, instead regular business at each meeting includes a report meeting when the need arises.
During the year from each executive director.
A formal schedule of ending 31 March 2004, the Committee met once, matters reserved for the Board to consider is in place although in addition it met in March 2003 and April and is periodically updated.
All serving members of the Committee have that this schedule maintains full Board control and attended all meetings.
direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
40 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Nomination Committee Report The principal functions of the Committee are to The Nomination Committee leads the process for monitor the integrity of the financial statements Board and Committee appointments and then of the Company: to review the Groups internal makes recommendations to the Board.
financial controls and its risk management and internal audit functions: and to review and monitor External search consultants, Spencer Stuart, have all aspects of the Companys relationships with the been engaged by the Committee to lead the external auditors, including the development and search for new non-executive directors, and all implementation of a policy on the engagement of candidates are assessed against criteria set to the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
assess objectivity and suitability, taking into account The Committee reports and makes recommendations the balance of existing skills, knowledge and to the Board on all matters.
Time availability is always assessed.
The Committee also considers issues of During the past year the Committee has overseen succession planning.
the Companys relationship with its new external auditors, Deloitte and Touche LLP.
The Committee The Committee intends to play an increasingly has approved the adoption of a policy on the important role in training and development, provision of non-audit services by the external performance evaluation, inductions, elections auditors which in the opinion of the Committee, and re-elections and the terms of appointment safeguards objectivity and independence.
Details of of non-executive directors.
All non-executive the fees paid to the external auditors for non-audit directors have been issued with new draft terms of services are shown on page 62. appointment following the introduction of the New Code, which are expected to be finalised shortly.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association require all Remuneration Committee directors to be re-elected at least every three The membership of the Remuneration Committee years, in accordance with the New Code.
The comprises P Michael, SJ Pirie, M Barnes from 18 Articles require that a director appointed by the September 2003, P Hodgson from 5 February 2004 Board must be elected by the shareholders at the and A Ross Goobey also from 5 February 2004.
Annual General Meeting following appointment.
A Ross Goobey took over as chairman of the This is in accordance with both the Existing and the Committee from RN Gilbert on 5 March 2004.
the year ended 31 March 2004 there were six meetings.
All meetings were attended by all serving Induction, training and performance evaluation directors save that two meetings were not attended All new directors receive a full induction into the by P Michael.
Company as soon as possible after appointment.
The induction process involves meeting with A separate report of the Remuneration Committee representatives of all areas of the Companys is on pages 46 to 51. business and visits to key locations.
The role of the Board and its Committees, as well as a directors Audit Committee responsibilities, are also explained.
At the beginning of the reporting year, the Audit Committee comprised three non-executive Directors have opportunities to receive training, and directors, SJ Pirie Chairman, S Duffy and JP these opportunities are to be developed further to Williams.
P Hodgson joined the Audit Committee include areas that affect each directors role within upon her appointment to the Board on 27 January the Company, including corporate governance 2004.
The Audit Committee schedules three formal and risk management.
All directors are kept meetings a year, in February, May and November, regularly updated on the Companys business and at other times when the need arises.
During the throughout their period in office.
year ended 31 March 2004, the Committee met three times.
All meetings were attended by all During the past year, the Board, led by the Executive serving directors save that two meetings were not Chairman, has begun to formalise evaluation of its attended by S Duffy.
own performance, that of its Committees and the individual performance of its directors, including the Audit Committee Report Executive Chairman, who will be appraised by the The Audit Committee has written terms of reference independent non-executive directors, led by the which have recently been amended to bring them Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
in line with the requirements of the New Code, A structured approach, led by external consultants, including the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees.
is underway to supplement more informal appraisal.
The normal annual business of the Committee to be considered at its three scheduled meetings a year is written down in a forward planning document considered in the November meeting.
41 GWR Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2004 The Boards review of internal control A key feature of the control environment is the Corporate governance constitution and role of the Board and the Committee structure established to manage the continued business.
The principal Board Committees are the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The members of these Committees are shown on page 36.
The Executive Chairman chairs a Group Executive Relations with shareholders Board that consists of the four executive directors.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional The Group Executive Board concentrates on Group shareholders, including meetings with the Executive strategy and controls the development of divisional Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive strategy, business plans and the monitoring of Director and the Group Finance Director.
In addition progress against key performance indicators, the there are presentations of the annual and interim annual budget and long-term business plans.
This results and other topics.
structure also provides the forum for establishing the Boards requirements on internal control and A trading statement is issued at each Annual monitoring effectiveness of the management of General Meeting.
All directors generally attend the significant risks in business units across the Group.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, which The Groups UK operational businesses are are to be included in this document together with managed through two divisions: Analogue Radio the Annual Report, are set out on pages 80 to 83. and Digital Radio.
In addition, there is a Head Office Division, which includes certain senior executives Internal control and central support functions.
The International The Board has implemented the guidance Internal Division was closed once the final overseas trading Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined subsidiary was sold in November 2003.
Code and the following paragraphs set out how the Group has applied the principles and complied Following last years accreditation to the Good with the provisions.
Except where expressly stated Corporation Charter, the Group has undergone a otherwise, these procedures have been in place second annual verification of its operation.
Further throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 and details of the results of this process are on page 35. remained in place up to the date of approval of the Report and Financial Statements.
During the year the Head of Risk Management has reported regularly to the Audit Committee on risk The Board acknowledges its responsibility to management and internal controls.
The Audit maintain a sound system of internal control and to Committee has examined in detail the reports by review its effectiveness to safeguard shareholders the Head of Risk Management, which include a investments and the Groups assets.
As new review of the formal process of risk assessment procedures and working practices are adopted, and self-certification carried out by divisional risk factors are considered and internal controls management in accordance with the Groups embedded into them.
Any residual risk is then Risk Management policy.
This process evaluates considered for acceptability.
The internal control the potential impact of all significant risks including systems are designed to manage rather than financial, operational and compliance risks.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business No shortcomings material to the Group have objectives, and can only provide reasonable and been identified.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a The Group has a control environment with policies, reasonable expectation that the Group has processes and codes of conduct which are adequate resources to continue in operational designed to identify, evaluate and manage existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the significant risks faced by the Group, which is the going concern basis has been adopted in regularly reviewed and accords with the guidance, preparing the accounts.
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
42 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Statement of compliance with the New Code The Company is not yet required to comply with the Reporting directly to the Executive Chairman are New Code.
Nonetheless, the Board is committed to three executive directors: W Pallot, Group Finance high standards of corporate governance and has Director, S Orchard, Managing Director and sought to move the Company towards compliance Operations Director, Local Radio and R Lewis, with the New Code as if it had applied during the Managing Director and Programme Controller, year.
Significant progress has been made, and Classic FM.
Each has delegated responsibility for further progress is expected before the first specific areas of the Groups business, and have statement of compliance is required in next years assumed between them the responsibilities formerly Annual Report.
The reasons for non-compliance, carried by JPE Taylor.
These four executives form the and the remedial steps which the Board intends to Group Executive Board and share responsibility for take, are set out below.
the operation and management of the Group.
i the appointment and role of RM Bernard as The Board is satisfied that this allocation of executive Executive Chairman responsibility is presently the most effective and efficient means of managing the Group and that it Provision A.
2.2 requires that a company appointing operates in shareholders interests.
The Board also a new chairman who has been chief executive considers that the division of responsibility between explain its reasons for doing so.
Although the four individuals, taken together with oversight from a Company has not appointed a new chairman strong group of non-executive directors, prevents during 2003 04, its current chairman was previously the possibility of the accumulation of too much chief executive.
The Board is aware that there can power in the hands of any one individual.
The in principle be powerful arguments against the desirability of appointing a chief executive will be appointment of a chairman who has previously kept under review.
served as chief executive, and considers that it might be helpful to shareholders to understand the iii the non-executive directors reasoning for its decision.
3.2 recommends that half the Board, RM Bernard was appointed Executive Chairman of excluding the chairman, should be independent the Company in 2001, having previously been chief non-executive directors.
The Company currently has executive since 1987.
When he was considered for eight non-executive directors.
Of these, JP Williams appointment as chairman in 2001, the Board took and RN Gilbert are not independent because they note of his prominence in and experience of represent Daily Mail and General Trust plc, a commercial radio, the high standing in which he significant shareholder in the Company.
Two further was held by commentators and the industrys non-executive directors, SJ Pirie and S Duffy, have regulators, and his deep understanding of the previously been regarded as independent by the issues that the Group was expected to face in Board.
However, bearing in mind the definitions a period of rapid change in the radio industry.
contained in the New Code, the Board has now The Board decided that these attributes more determined to regard them as not independent, than outweighed concerns based upon his for the reasons given below.
having previously been chief executive, and that shareholders interests would best be served by SJ Pirie has been a non-executive director for appointing him Executive Chairman.
The Boards considerably more than the maximum nine years experience of RM Bernards conduct as Executive envisaged by the New Code, since she first joined Chairman since 2001 has amply confirmed them in the Board in 1983.
The Board accepts that there is a that view.
risk that non-executive directors with long service may become too comfortable with the status quo ii the senior executive team or feel unable to express challenging views to their colleagues.
However, the Board has seen no The Board of the Company does not have a chief evidence that her long experience at the Company executive, contrary to the recommendation of has dimmed SJ Piries objectivity or diminished her Provision A.
1.2 of the New Code which requires ability to express forthright and independent views.
separation of responsibilities between chairman On the contrary, the Board considers that and chief executive.
shareholders continue to benefit from the depth of experience and knowledge that she is able to bring Since the resignation of JPE Taylor, chief executive to bear, and from the independent character and until July 2003, responsibility for the executive judgement that she shows at the Board table.
The management of the Company has been divided Board continues to value these qualities, and were between four individuals.
The Executive Chairman, it not for the time limitation contained in the New RM Bernard, is responsible for chairing the Board Code, the Board would consider her to be an including ensuring compliance with corporate independent director.
governance, setting Group strategy and overseeing its implementation, and for leading the relationships with major shareholders and other key stakeholders.
43 GWR Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2004 iv Board Committees Corporate governance Provision A.
4.1 recommends that the majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should be continued independent non-executive directors.
The Committee currently has four members, only one of whom, A Ross Goobey, is an independent non-executive.
The Board does not believe that the effective operation of the Committee is impaired by the present ratio of independent non-executive directors to other S Duffy became chief executive of NTL Inc. a directors.
Nonetheless, the Board intends to review supplier to the Group, in August 2003.
The New the membership of the Committee over the coming Code does not normally regard a director as months and to consider the options for complying independent if the business relationship between with the requirement of the New Code, including the the two companies is a material one.
The Board possible appointment to the Committee of further therefore considered whether the business independent non-executive directors.
relationship between the Group and NTL is sufficiently material to call S Duffys independence Provision B.
2.1 recommends that all members of the into question, and has concluded that NTL is a Remuneration Committee should be independent material supplier to the Group, and that S Duffy non-executive directors.
Following the adoption of should therefore no longer be regarded as the guidelines in the New Code, only four of the independent.
The Board noted that S Duffy had six present Committee membership of five is regarded years experience as an independent non-executive by the Board as independent.
The Board intends director of the Company before his appointment at to review the membership of the Committee NTL, during which time he established patterns of over the coming months and to consider the working with the Board and a reputation for options for complying with the requirement of independence of view which were likely to help him the New Code, including the possible appointment to maintain that stance even when matters relating to the Committee of further independent to NTL were debated.
Nonetheless, as a safeguard, non-executive directors.
S Duffy has agreed not to attend any Board discussions that might have a bearing on NTLs Provision C. 3.1 recommends that all members of relationship with the Group.
the Audit Committee should be independent nonexecutive directors.
The membership of the Audit The Board now regards P Michael as independent Committee at present comprises SJ Pirie, P Hodgson, for the first time.
P Michael has for several years held S Duffy and JP Williams.
Under the New Code, SJ Pirie a significant shareholding in the Company, and as a and S Duffy are for the first time regarded by the result was not held to be independent.
His Board as not being independent: nor is JP Williams, shareholding has fallen below 5% of the issued share since he represents DMGT, a major shareholder in the capital in the Company and has remained so for Company.
The Audit Committee constitution is more than a year.
On that basis, the Board sees no therefore not compliant with the New Code.
reason not to regard P Michael as an independent non-executive director.
During the year the Board has moved to strengthen the membership of the Audit Committee with the In addition to P Michael, A Ross Goobey, M Barnes appointment of P Hodgson and intends to appoint and P Hodgson are all independent non-executive a further independent non-executive director to the directors.
However, this complement still falls short of Board who will have recent and relevant financial the 50% of the Board not including the chairman experience, and who will take over as chairman of envisaged by the New Code.
The Board intends to the Committee from SJ Pirie.
move towards compliance with this aspect of the New Code in particular by appointing a further Various Provisions of the New Code recommend that independent non-executive director.
the terms of reference of the Committees should be made available on the Companys website.
3.3 recommends that the Company intention of the Board to see that the Terms of should have a senior independent non-executive Reference appear on the website shortly.
The Company moved to meet this provision by the appointment of A Ross Goobey as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 17 November 2003.
44 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 v directors evaluation New Code provision A.
7.2 requires the Board to set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director why they believe an individual should be elected with a confirmation from the chairman that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective.
This years resolutions, as they are formally governed by the Existing Code, do not need to include such confirmations, but the Board has sought to include them so far as is possible.
As noted above, the Board, led by the Executive Chairman, has begun a process of more formal performance evaluation using external consultants, although this has not yet been completed.
This process will include an evaluation of the performance of the Executive Chairman by the independent non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Statement of compliance with the Existing Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 the Company has been in compliance with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority 2002 edition, except for the following areas: A.
2.1 For the period 1 August 2003 until 31 March 2004 the Company did not have a chief executive officer.
For the period until 18 November 2003, the Company did not have a senior independent non-executive director.
3.2 From 1 April 2003 until the appointment of A Ross Goobey to the Board on 18 November 2003, only two out of six non-executive directors were independent under the Boards interpretation of the New Code: from then until the appointment of P Hodgson on 27 January 2004, three out of seven directors were independent, and thereafter until the end of the financial year, four out of the eight were independent.
1.7 For the period 1 April 2003 to 25 May 2004 the Executive Chairman had a service contract with a two year notice period.
2.2 During the year, RN Gilbert and SJ Pirie neither of whom was an independent director under the Boards interpretation of the New Code have been members of the Remuneration Committee: D. 3.1 During the year, SJ Pirie, JP Williams and S Duffy none of whom was an independent director under the Boards interpretation of the New Code have been members of the Audit Committee.
45 GWR Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2004
