HALMA Corporate Governance The Board is committed to the maintenance of high standards of Corporate Governance.
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in   setout in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in June 1998.
Applicationofthe The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a non-executive principlesofgood Chairman, four executive Directors and three other non-executive Directors.
Their governance biographies appear on page 28.
The Board considers each of the non-executive .
TheBoardrecognises   aschairman,  does not interfere with his independence as regards, in particular, membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In assessing independence, the Board considers that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of management and free from business and other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of non-executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of all shareholders.
Mr Stone is acknowledged as the Senior Independent Director.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered appropriate training.
Each Director is subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a  least eight times each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive board papers in the week preceding each BoardMeeting.
 Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
Mr Stone chairs the Remuneration Committee of which each of the non-executive Directors is a member.
Mr Walker and Mr Pettit joined the Committee during the year.
Mr Barber was a member until his retirement in July 2003 and Lord McGowan remained a member until his death in May 2003.
Formal terms of reference exist which follow the recommendations of the Combined Code and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration based on proposals formulated by the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee meets at least twice per year.
InOctober 2003, Mr Walker assumed the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Each of the non-executive Directors is a member of the Committee.
Formal terms of reference  request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee reviews the interim and annual accounts, the statement on internal controls and is responsible for the relationship with the external auditors.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
Mr Barber chaired the Nomination Committee until his retirement at which point Mr Unwin assumed the role of Chairman.
Mr Stone and Mr OShea are also members of the Committee.
Formal terms of reference exist which follow the 36 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Corporate Governance continued HALMA recommendations of the Combined Code and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
External search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least annually.
Controlof divisionaloperating mattersis delegated totheExecutiveBoard of which the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and all of the Divisional Chief Executives are members.
Biographies of Executive Board members appear on page 28.
The Group Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board, which meets regularly, thereby ensuring the Boards strategies are communicated to those overseeing operations.
The Executive Board reviews operational activities, trading results, budgets, policy matters, investment opportunities, resource allocation and risk exposures.
Any matters arising out of the Executive Board meetings are reported to the Board via the Group Chief Executives report to the Board.
 Divisional Chief Executive to monitor progress against key objectives and review operational performance.
Individual operating company boards, chaired by the appropriate Divisional Chief Executive, manage operating companies.
These boards have clearly defined responsibilities for the operation of their businesses, including compliance with , .
 exercised within the Group is described below.
Investorrelations In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director communicate the Groups methods and results.
Meetings include the Annual General Meeting and briefings following the interim and annual results.
The Financial Calendar is set out on page 26.
com,  announcements, summaries of presentations toanalysts, electronic versions of the latest Annual Report and Accounts, biographical information on key Directors and Officers, ,  as hotlinks to their own websites.
The website also contains the facility to request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group.
Goingconcern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internalcontrol   delegated to the Audit Committee.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance for directors on internalcontrol InternalControl:, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and ,  .
This process has been reviewed by the Board, and the Group accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 37 Corporate Governance continued HALMA The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have audited the financial statements and have reviewed the internal financial control systems to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes but is not limited to:  operational management the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, and informally through close monitoring of operations a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets and previous years figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and Group level an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure  issues a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below.
Operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which action is monitored through to resolution.
In addition, Divisional Chief Executives carry out an independent risk assessment for each operating company.
A review of Group risks is also conducted.
, discussesandreports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and report progress to the Executive Board.
l. c. Boardmeeting ,  an analysis of the significant risks facing the Group at that time.
Internal controlvisits are carried out by senior financestaff resulting inactions :visit reports are coded in terms of risk with any significant control failings reported  Audit Committee regularly: senior finance staff also carry out financial reviews .
38 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Corporate Governance continued HALMA The Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of Internal Control for its review.
The Board receives the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is conducted.
Following its review of internal control activities in 2004, the Audit Committee has now put in place procedures for independent reporting of the outcome of these visits to the Audit Committee.
Whilst internal audit is not a separate function within the Group, the Board anticipates that the procedures now in place will allow it to report in 2004 05 that it has procedures which amount to an internal audit function.
Auditorindependence The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor independence and objectivityannually.
Duringtheyear,  Independence and Services provided by the External Auditor.
This policy states thattheGroup  auditorfornon-audit servicesin cases where these services do not conflict with the auditors independence.
Compliancewiththe The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the codeofbestpractice financial year.
