38 Alliance UniChem Plc Board report on corporate governance The Board is committed to meeting the Chief Executive annually approves a three year forward standards of good corporate governance Ian Meakins is responsible for leading the plan and a budget for the following set out in the Combined Code on Groups businesses and managing the financial year.
The Board monitors the corporate governance published by the Group on a day-to-day basis within the Groups overall system of internal controls, Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 authorities delegated by the Board.
governance and compliance and has the Code, which replaced the previous approved formal delegated powers giving code for financial periods beginning on Executive Deputy Chairman the executive committee day-to-day or after 1 November 2003.
This report, Stefano Pessina, in addition to his role as management of the Group.
together with the audit committee report executive Deputy Chairman, has on pages 42 and 43 and the Board report operational responsibility for strategic Directors and officers insurance on remuneration on pages 44 to 54, development, including acquisitions.
The Company maintains an appropriate describes how the Board applied the Code level of Directors and officers insurance in during the year under review.
Operation of the Board respect of legal action against Directors.
The Board met eight times in 2004, The Board including a meeting at the headquarters Board balance and independence The Board currently comprises the of the Groups Swiss associate, Galenica, in The Board has reviewed the independence Chairman, six executive Directors and seven Berne and a meeting at Moss Pharmacys of all the non-executive Directors non-executive Directors.
The names of the headquarters in the UK.
In addition, the and determined that of the eight Directors together with their biographical Board held a strategy meeting in June.
non-executive Directors, six are details are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Board is scheduled to meet eight times independent.
Two are considered As part of the Companys management in 2005, with additional meetings held as to be non independent: succession programme, Ian Meakins was required.
The attendance record for Board the Chairman, Jeff Harris, who will be appointed Chief Executive of the Group in and Committee meetings, including the stepping down as Chairman of the place of Stefano Pessina, who returned to AGM, is set out on page 41.
Company and retiring from the Board at his previous role as executive Deputy the conclusion of the 2005 AGM, has Chairman.
Both changes were effective The Board has adopted principles of good previously been an executive Director of from 1 December 2004.
These principles the Company: and Deputy Chief Executive, resigned from the ensure that the Directors can perform their Board on 29 July 2004 when the decision role effectively and are given the means Etienne Jornod is Chairman and to appoint Ian Meakins was finalised, and and information necessary for them to Managing Director of Galenica, an he left the Company at the end of the make informed decisions.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief include details of: as long as the associate agreement Executive and Executive Deputy Chairman exists between it and the Company, to the legal responsibilities of Directors: have been set out in writing and approved designate one Director for appointment by the Board.
The executive Directors the role and appointment of to the Board of the Company, subject to service contracts and the letters setting non-executive Directors: the approval of the Companys out the terms of appointment of the shareholders.
the procedure by which Directors are non-executive Directors are available for given and can obtain information, Throughout the year, the Company has not inspection by any person at the Companys training and independent advice: complied with the Code requirement that registered office during normal business at least half of the Board, excluding the hours and at the AGM.
the procedure for the provision of Chairman, should comprise non-executive notices, agendas, papers and minutes Directors determined by the Board to be Chairman for meetings of the Board and Board independent.
However, there is a broad Jeff Harris, who is responsible for the committees: and pool of independent non-executive operation of the Board, was appointed how meetings of the Board and Board Directors who can serve on committees, Chairman in September 2001.
In April 2003 committees are conducted.
such that undue reliance is not placed he retired as a full time executive on particular individuals.
It is considered continuing as Chairman in a non-executive The Board is collectively responsible for that the Board has the balance of skills capacity.
He was appointed to the Board promoting the success of the Group by and experience appropriate for the in 1986 and held the position of Chief directing and supervising the Groups requirements of the business and that Executive from 1992 to 2001.
There is a schedule of matters no individual or group of individuals are of the opinion that his extensive reserved for approval by the Board, which dominates the Boards decision making.
industry and business specific knowledge ensures that it takes all major strategy, and experience, gained during 17 years as policy and investment decisions affecting The senior independent non-executive an executive director, have been extremely the Group.
This schedule is reviewed Director is Ken Clarke.
The roles terms of beneficial to the Board and that his annually and includes specific matters reference provide that he is available to Chairmanship provided valuable continuity under the categories of legal, stock shareholders if they have a concern which to develop the business in the best exchange, strategic management control, would make contact through the normal interests of shareholders and customers.
risk management, Board membership, channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Jeff Harris will step down as Chairman of Board committees, capital and revenue inappropriate, or which have not been the Company and retire from the Board commitments, financing, advisers and resolved by such contact.
The senior at the conclusion of the 2005 AGM.
At each scheduled meeting, independent non-executive Director Paolo Scaroni, who was appointed to the the Board receives a report on current periodically holds meetings with the Board as an independent non-executive trading and major business issues and other non-executive Directors without Director on 10 December 2002, will replace the executive Directors present.
him as Chairman of the Company with effect from the same date.
39 Alliance UniChem Plc A procedure is in place for Directors, if they extended for not more than two further The duties of the nomination committee wish, to receive independent professional three year terms.
Prior to recommending are to: advice in respect of their duties.
They also the re-election of non-executive Directors regularly review the structure, size and have access to the advice and services of to the Board, the nomination committee composition of the Board: the Company Secretary who is charged reviews their effectiveness.
The review with ensuring that Board procedures process in 2004 concluded that all Directors regularly review the skills, knowledge are followed and that good corporate continue to contribute effectively and and experience of the Board and make governance and compliance is with proper commitment, devoting recommendations to the Board with implemented throughout the Group.
adequate time to carry out their duties.
regard to any adjustments that are The Company Secretary attends all The notice of this years AGM confirms that considered necessary: meetings of the Board and Board the performance of the Directors being ensure succession plans are in existence committees.
The appointment and removal proposed for re-appointment continues to for Directors: and of the Company Secretary is a matter be effective.
The Board and its keep under review the leadership needs committees are supplied with full and The Code requires that the performance of the Group.
timely information which enables them to and the commitment of any Director being discharge their responsibilities.
In addition proposed for re-election for a term beyond Ian Meakins appointment to the Board to the papers circulated to the Board in six years should be subject to a particularly was made in accordance with the Code advance of Board and Committee rigorous review.
A search was conducted by an meetings, reports are sent to the Directors conducted for Neil Cross who is being executive search firm specialising in Board in months when the Board is not scheduled proposed for re-election at the AGM to be level appointments to identify external to meet.
The Company Secretary ensures held on 22 April 2005. candidates on a national and international good information flows within the Board basis to be considered alongside internal and its Committees and between the There is a policy that non-executive candidates.
A shortlist of candidates was non-executive Directors and management.
Directors will not normally be invited to interviewed by each member of the New Directors receive appropriate stand for re-election after serving nine nomination committee as well as by induction training on joining the Board, years on the Board.
Neil Cross who was other non-executive Directors, prior to including site visits and meetings with appointed to the Board in 1997 will, the committee recommending the senior management.
subject to re-election at the 2005 AGM, appointment of Ian Meakins as retire from the Board at the conclusion of Chief Executive.
The other Directors coming During the year, the Board formally up for re-election at the 2005 AGM are As part of the ongoing review of evaluated its own performance and that of Stefano Pessina, Steve Duncan and Paolo succession, the committee has instructed the Board Committees, which included a Scaroni.
Ian Meakins, who was appointed external consultants to identify candidates follow up of matters raised in the to the Board since the last AGM, will for a number of positions as independent evaluation carried out by an independent retire from the Board at the 2005 AGM non-executive Directors.
This process will firm of management consultants a year and, being eligible, will offer himself involve an evaluation of the skills and ago.
This process was in the form of a for election.
experience required, including the need questionnaire, supplemented by one to for at least one new independent one meetings between the Chairman and Board committees non-executive Director to have recent each of the Directors, where individual The Board has established four and relevant financial experience.
It is the committees, the nomination, The committee will also consider whether intention of the Board to undertake remuneration, audit and executive candidates have sufficient time to fulfil further reviews by an independent firm at committees.
Each committee has terms the roles.
The non-executive of reference, agreed by both the Directors met separately to discuss committee and the Board, which were The committee and the Board also the performance of the Chairman.
reviewed during the year, and are recognise that the Code requires the Issues arising from the self assessment published on the corporate website at Chairman of the Board to be an evaluation were presented to the Board www.
by the Chairman with an action plan reports of committee business and As stated above, Jeff Harris will step down to ensure continuous improvement activities are given to the Board.
as Chairman of the Company and retire in the operation of the Board and its from the Board at the conclusion of the committees.
The evaluation of the personal Nomination committee 2005 AGM.
Paolo Scaroni, who was performance of the executive Directors was The nomination committee consists of four appointed to the Board as an independent based on a 360-degree appraisal process.
independent non-executive Directors, Ken non-executive Director on 10 December Clarke Committee Chairman, Neil Cross, 2002, will replace him as Chairman of the Re-election of Directors Patrick Ponsolle and Paolo Scaroni, and Board with effect from the same date.
All Directors are required to be elected by three other Directors, Jeff Harris, Ian Paolo Scaroni was seen as a potential shareholders at the AGM following their Meakins and Stefano Pessina.
Ian Meakins candidate for the position of Chairman of appointment by the Board and then and Paolo Scaroni were appointed to the the Company when he was first appointed re-elected at least once every three years.
The majority to the Board.
In accordance with the Articles of of the members of the committee are Association of the Company, one third independent non-executive Directors as of the Directors excluding new required by the Code.
The Committee met appointments must stand for re-election twice in 2004, the attendance record of at each AGM.
Non-executive Directors are members being shown in the table on normally appointed for an initial term of page 41. three years which is then renewed and 40 Alliance UniChem Plc Board report on corporate governance Remuneration committee The non-executive Directors are offered Key elements of the Groups system of The remuneration committee the opportunity to attend meetings with internal controls are as follows: consists of four independent non-executive major shareholders and shareholder regular Board meetings with a formal Directors, Ken Clarke Committee Chairman, events.
They also make themselves schedule of matters reserved by the Neil Cross, Adrian Loader, and available to investors upon request.
Board for decision: Patrick Ponsolle.
The Chairman, the In addition to the programme described Chief Executive and the Executive Deputy above, the Companys website provides Board approval of business strategies, Chairman are invited to attend meetings financial and other information about the three year forward plans and annual as appropriate but are not present Group.
Preliminary and interim results, as budgets: when their own remuneration is discussed.
well as all announcements to the London an annual risk review by the audit The committee met four times in 2004, Stock Exchange are published on the committee, based on a detailed the attendance record of members Companys corporate website.
self-assessment by management of being shown in the table on page 41. business risks in terms of impact, The role of the committee and details of All shareholders have the opportunity likelihood and control strength: how it applied the principles of the Code to attend the Companys AGM and to and the Directors Remuneration Report question the Directors on any issue relating clearly defined organisational structures Regulations 2002 are set out in the Board to the Company.
The Chairmen of the and appropriate delegated authorities report on remuneration on pages 44 nomination, remuneration and audit for the Groups businesses: to 54. committees are also present at the meeting monthly review by the executive to answer questions.
committee of key performance indicators Audit committee to assess progress towards objectives, The audit committee consists of five In accordance with best practice: with action being taken as required: independent non-executive Directors, the notice of the AGM is circulated to all Neil Cross Committee Chairman, Adrian continuous monitoring of regulatory shareholders at least 20 working days Loader, Patrick Ponsolle, Paolo Scaroni and developments: before the AGM: Manfred Stach.
The role of the Committee procedures for planning, approving and details of how it carried out its duties the proxy votes for and against each and monitoring business acquisitions, are set out in the audit committee report resolution, as well as abstentions, are divestments and capital expenditure on pages 42 and 43. made available at the meeting after projects, supplemented by postshareholders have voted on each investment performance reviews: Executive committee resolution on a show of hands, with the The executive committee consists of the exception of the resolution in connection dispensing and professional pharmacy executive Directors and is chaired by Ian with the waiver of the obligations of protocols: Meakins.
The executive committee met Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and procedures for security and specialist 12 times in 2004.
Mergers, which is voted on by a poll: and handling of certain drug classes: separate resolutions are proposed at the The duties of the executive committee a rolling programme of surveys by the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
are to: Groups insurance brokers to advise on physical risks: oversee the operation of the Group: Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the centralised treasury operations operating implement decisions of the Board: Groups system of internal control and for within defined limits and subject to attend to all matters not reserved for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of regular reporting requirements: approval by the Board or delegated by internal control is designed to manage, an internal audit function providing the Board to other Board committees: rather than eliminate, the risk of failure independent scrutiny of internal control and to achieve business objectives and can systems and risk management procedures: provide only reasonable, and not absolute, attend to all matters delegated to it.
assurances against material misstatement regular monitoring of risks and control or loss.
The Board considers risk assessment systems throughout the year by Relations with shareholders and control to be fundamental to the operating businesses: The Company organises a programme Company achieving its corporate objectives of formal and informal events, investor a self-certification process, whereby within an acceptable risk reward profile meetings, and presentations which operating businesses are required to and confirms that there is an ongoing take place throughout the year.
confirm in writing that the system of process to identify, evaluate and manage This programme is led by the Chief internal control is operating effectively: significant risks in the Groups system of Executive and the Finance Director and internal controls.
The effectiveness of the Director of Internal Audit has the involves other members of the executive the internal control system is reviewed right of direct access to the audit committee and the Director of Investor annually by the audit committee on behalf committee and the Chairman of Relations.
Meetings are held with of the Board.
Throughout 2004 and up the Company: institutional investors and analysts to until the date of this report the internal discuss information made public by the continuous monitoring by the Group controls systems comply with the Turnbull Group and any questions that may legal function of claims and litigation guidance for directors as required by arise.
The Company ensures that no throughout the Group: and the Code.
price-sensitive information is disclosed in a requirement for specialist legal, these meetings.
To ensure the Board is financial, and other professional advice effectively informed of shareholders views, to be obtained as part of the Groups the Companys brokers and the Director of business activities.
Investor Relations monitor those views and provide regular feedback to the Board.
41 Alliance UniChem Plc Meeting attendance record Executive AuditRemuneration Nomination AGM Board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings in 2004 1 8 12 4 4 2 Director J. F. Harris 1 8 2 1 I. K. Meakins 11 S. Pessina 1 8 12 2 G. R. Fairweather 1 8 12 O. Barra 1 8 12 P. Utnegaard 1812 S. W. J. Duncan 1 8 12 2 G. I. Cooper 147 K. H. Clarke 1 7 4 2 N. E. Cross 1 8 4 4 2 W. A. Loader 1 5 2 2 P. Ponsolle 1 6 2 4 1 P. Scaroni 1 7 4 M. Stach 1 4 0 E. Jornod 1 8 3 C. J. S. Berretti 13 1 appointed to the Board in December 2004: one Board meeting and one executive committee meeting were held after his appointment 2 resigned from the Board in July 2004: four Board meetings and seven executive committee meetings were held before his resignation 3 retired from the Board in April 2004: three Board meetings were held before his retirement Compliance statement Code provision A.
3.2 Six of the 14 The Company applied the principles of the Directors on the Board are considered to Code throughout the year under review be independent.
The Board recognises with the following exceptions: that the Code specifies that at least half of the members on the Board excluding Code provision A.
2.2 Prior to his the Chairman should be independent appointment as Chairman, Jeff Harris non-executive Directors.
The Board is held the position of Chief Executive of working towards achieving the the Company.
He will step down as necessary balance: and Chairman of the Company and retire from the Board at the conclusion of Code Provisions A.
Paolo Scaroni, who The terms of reference of the was appointed to the Board as an nomination, remuneration and audit independent non-executive director on committees were updated during the 10 December 2002, will replace him as year to comply with the requirements of Chairman of the Company with effect the new Code.
Although the terms of from the same date: reference for each committee were available to the public on request, they were not put on the Companys website until February 2005.
