42 Alliance UniChem Plc Audit committee report The audit committee consists of five Terms of reference Operation of the audit committee independent non-executive Directors, The terms of reference of the During the year, the business Neil Cross Committee Chairman, committee, which are available on the considered and discussed by the Adrian Loader, Paolo Scaroni, Patrick Companys website, were updated committee included: Ponsolle and Manfred Stach.
The Group during 2004 to reflect the requirements a review of the financial disclosures Finance Director, the Director of of the Code.
The main responsibilities contained in the Interim and Annual Internal Audit, the Group Financial of the committee, which are set out in Reports to shareholders, together Controller and representatives from the the terms of reference, are to: with the associated interim and external auditors are normally invited preliminary announcements: review the effectiveness of systems to attend meetings as appropriate.
The for internal financial control, financial committee met four times during 2004, proposals from the external auditors reporting and risk management: the attendance record of members about their independent review of being shown in the table on page 41. the financial information contained monitor, review and challenge where Manfred Stach, who was appointed to within the Interim Report 2004 and necessary the integrity of financial the Committee at the end of 2003, was their audit programme for the 2004 statements and formal unable to attend meetings during 2004 financial statements: announcements relating to the due to commitments agreed prior to financial performance of the Group: proposals from the internal audit his appointment.
He received all function about its audit programme consider the appointment, meeting papers and information and for 2005: re-appointment and or removal of was able to discuss issues arising with the external auditor: the Committee Chairman.
He waived the amount of audit and non audit his audit committee fee for the period fees paid to external auditors in 2004 consider any change to the under review.
are set out in note 8 to the financial independence of, objectivity of and statements.
The Companys policy fees to the external auditors: The Director of Internal Audit has the on non-audit services provided by consider the effectiveness of the right of direct access to the committee external auditors is set out on page 43: external audit process taking into and the Chairman of the Company.
The a review of the objectivity, consideration relevant UK professional committee has the right to seek and independence and effectiveness of and regulatory requirements: receive any information it requires to the external auditors.
The committee, fulfil its duties and all Directors and maintain and monitor a policy on the after considering a paper on the employees are directed to co-operate engagement of the external auditor independence, objectivity and with any request made by the to supply non-audit services: effectiveness of the external auditor, committee and to attend on demand unanimously agreed to recommend agree with the external auditors the any meeting of the committee to the re-appointment of Deloitte & scope and nature of their audit, answer questions.
Touche LLP as the Companys external review their quality control auditor at the 2005 AGM: procedures, ensure coordination of At each meeting in 2004, the audits, review their management committee met the Director of Internal an annual review of the effectiveness letter and managements response Audit and representatives from the of the internal audit function.
The and discuss any issues arising from external auditors without executive committee, based on an internal their audit: management present.
Attendance of assessment, considered that the members at committee meetings is internal audit function had been review the programme, resourcing, shown in the Board report on effective throughout 2004.
The effectiveness and results of the corporate governance.
The Chairman of committee agreed that an external internal audit function and approve the committee attends the AGM to assessment of the internal audit any change to the Director of Internal respond to any shareholder questions function would be conducted in the Audit: that might be raised on the second half of 2005.
During the year, oversee the process for dealing with committees activities.
the committee considered the results complaints received by the Group of audits conducted by the internal regarding accounting, internal Neil Cross has a background in audit function and managements accounting controls or auditing investment analysis and corporate response to issues raised: matters and the confidential, finance, is a Chartered Secretary and a review of the Companys anonymous submission by employees chairs four PLC Audit Committees.
The compliance with the Code, including of concerns regarding questionable Board is satisfied, in line with the Code, disclosures required to be included in accounting or auditing matters: that he has both current and relevant the Annual Report 2004: financial experience.
review the consistency of accounting a review of the arrangements for policies: employees to raise concerns, in monitor compliance with the Groups confidence, about possible borrowing limits: and wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters, further details of monitor compliance with the which are set out on page 43: principles of good boardroom practice.
43 Alliance UniChem Plc a review of the committees This list of prohibited non-audit services Whistleblowing effectiveness which concluded that it may only be varied by the audit During 2004 the committee reviewed had discharged its responsibilities as committee.
arrangements for employees to raise set out in its terms of reference: concerns, in confidence, about possible Under this policy it has been agreed wrongdoing in financial reporting or a review of internal controls, that, due to their significant other matters in accordance with the accounting policies and practices and understanding of the Groups business requirements of the Code.
In the UK a risk management procedures.
The and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, 24 hour helpline, managed by a third committee monitored and reviewed the external auditors may be engaged party, was introduced.
This helpline the effectiveness of the Groups for the following non-audit services: provides reports to designated officers internal control systems, accounting of the Company, including the policies and practices and risk assistance in tax compliance activities Company Secretary, who in turn report management procedures, as well as including tax advisory services: cases to the committee.
Throughout the Companys statement on internal due diligence activities associated the rest of the Group, the Companys controls.
The Board retains overall with potential acquisitions or whistleblowing policy sets out responsibility for internal control and disposals of businesses: arrangements whereby employees can the identification and management report to the Company Secretary any of risks: and accountants reports for any Stock concerns or suspicions about possible Exchange purposes and ad hoc the transition to International wrongdoing in financial reporting or reporting on historical financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
other matters, which are reported to information: and The committee was updated during the committee.
the year on the IFRS implementation any other services which are not project undertaken by management prohibited and are authorised by the Neil Cross and reviewed the preparatory work audit committee.
Chairman of the audit committee carried out by the external auditors 24 February 2005 on the 2004 opening balance sheet.
The policy requires the fees for these The first external report to be permitted non-audit services to be prepared under IFRS will be the approved in advance by the committee.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature, such as for tax Policy on non-audit services and due diligence, approval may be As part of its remit, the committee sought for the full financial year at the keeps under review the nature and beginning of that year.
Approval for extent of audit and non-audit services other permitted non-audit services has provided to the Group by the external to be sought on an ad hoc basis.
The committee has approved no committee meeting is scheduled a policy for the approval of non-audit within an appropriate time frame, the services provided by external auditors.
approval is to be sought from the Under this policy, external auditors Chairman of the committee.
The fee cannot be engaged to perform any of threshold for pre-approved services at the following services: 31 December 2004 was 0.6 million b0.9 million per annum for taxation bookkeeping for underlying services and 0.5 million b0.8 million accounting records or preparation of per annum for due diligence and financial statements to be audited related services.
and used outside the Group: appraisals or other valuation services where the results may be incorporated in audited financial statements: actuarial services: management functions including human resources: investment advisory services including broking or investment banking: legal services: internal audit on an outsourced basis : design and or implementation of financial information systems: and any other services that a listed companys external auditors are prohibited from providing under UK or US regulations.
