Accounts 29 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance The board is accountable to shareholders for good governance Chairman of the audit and nomination committees on 20 May 2004 and the information and statements below describe how the and 2 February 2005 respectively.
principles identified in the Combined Code on corporate governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council The principal corporate governance procedures and further in July 2003, have been applied to the affairs of the group.
explanation of how the group has applied the principles of good corporate governance are summarised below.
The group has a policy of seeking to comply with established best practice in relation to corporate governance.
The Board There are six members of the board, namely the non-executive The procedures adopted by the board and subsequently Chairman, three executive directors and two further nonreviewed and updated, are designed to comply with the Code, executive directors who collectively have responsibility for the defining the constitution and responsibilities of the board and leadership of the group.
The directors holding office at the date the various board committees as appropriate.
of this report and their biographical details are given on page 24.
The executive directors are Tony Brewer, the Group Chief Statement of Compliance Executive, Stephen Wilson, the Group Finance Director and The group has complied throughout the year with the provisions Graham Waldron.
of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Code except for the following matters.
Trevor Larman, the Chairman, has no involvement in the day to day business of the group.
He monitors, with assistance from the The Chairman is not classified by the Combined Code as Company Secretary, the information distributed to the board to independent in measuring compliance with the various Code ensure that it is accurate, sufficient, timely and clear.
The board, as detailed below, believe the Chairman is responsible for the day to day management of the groups operates independently.
However, as a result of the definition operations and is accountable to the board for the financial and contained within the Code, the group is not in compliance with operational performance of the group and for the implementation provisions A.
3.1 and C. 3.1 which deal with the balance of of group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
The board the board and the number of independent non-executives on the acknowledges that there should be a clear division of audit and remuneration committees.
responsibilities at the head of the group and accordingly has agreed and clearly defined the roles of the Chairman and the The Code recommends that directors service contracts have a Group Chief Executive.
Details of the Chairmans professional notice period of twelve months.
During March 2004 executive commitments are included in the Chairmans biography.
The directors agreed new contracts which included provisions to Chairman occupies a number of other roles outside the group progressively reduce the notice period from two years to twelve but the board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the months.
These contracts will be Code compliant by 1 January performance of his duties which are based around a commitment 2006.
There is however provision for the notice period to revert of approximately 35 days per annum.
to two years in the event that the director is dismissed on a change of control, for a period of twelve months following such The group recognises the important role that non-executive a change of control.
New executive appointments to the board directors play in ensuring high standards of corporate will be subject to Code compliant service contracts.
governance and who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring independent judgement, Code provision D3.1 requires that the audit committee should knowledge and experience to the boards deliberations.
The comprise at least three directors, all non-executive, and Code independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that provision B2.2 requires that the remuneration committee should their views carry significant weight in the boards decision making.
consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The It is the view of the board that the three non-executive directors group complied with these codes following the appointment of can be considered independent of the executive management Roger Dickens, with effect from 6 February 2004 as a third nonand free from any business or other relationships which could executive director.
He joined the audit, remuneration and nomination materially interfere with the exercise of their independent committees at that time and has subsequently been appointed as judgement pursuant to the Code.
Accounts 30 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued No non-executive director has continued to maintain directors and officers liability insurance throughout the year.
has been employed by the group within the last five years: The board delegates certain functions to three committees in has, or has had within the last three years, a material business which the non-executive directors play an active role and which relationship with the group: operate within defined terms of reference laid down by the board, as detailed on pages 33 to 34. receives remuneration other than a directors fee: Any director who is appointed by the board is required to retire has close family ties with any of the groups advisers, at the next AGM and seek election by the shareholders.
One directors or senior employees: third of the members of the board must retire by rotation every year and offer themselves for re-election, if eligible.
In addition holds cross directorships or has significant links with other all directors must retire by rotation at the third AGM after their directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: or last appointment or re-appointment.
Upon joining, new directors are required to undertake an induction comprising site visits and meetings with the Group Chief Tom Anderson, as Senior Independent Director, is available to Executive.
This is supplemented by information about the board, shareholders should they have any concerns that contact with the committees, director duties, procedures for dealing in the the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director companys shares and other regulatory and governance matters.
has failed to resolve or if such contact may be inappropriate.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on The board is responsible to shareholders for the effective control appointment and subsequently, taking into account their and proper management of the company and there is a schedule individual qualifications and experience and any specific of matters specifically reserved for board approval.
These include requirements that may be identified during the performance determining strategy and policy, reviewing objectives and review process.
The Company Secretary monitors the availability performance, acquisitions and disposals, approval of major capital and suitability of external courses, details of which are circulated expenditure projects, risk management including pensions and to the board as appropriate.
During the year certain of the noninsurance and the consideration of significant financial matters.
executive directors have attended seminars relating to their On an annual basis the board reviews the executive management areas of responsibility.
The board receives regular briefings on and their succession and development plans.
Presentations are regulatory and governance matters affecting the group and also made to the board on major projects and regular reviews on on litigation relating to the group.
trading activities are given by executive management.
The non-executive directors have full access to management The board meets a minimum of ten times per year and additional and external auditors and are encouraged to develop their meetings are arranged when necessary.
knowledge of the groups business aided by site visits and meetings with senior management.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring all applicable procedures and A formal process has been established, for the annual evaluation regulations are complied with.
Furthermore, the Company Secretary of the performance of the board, its committees and individual ensures that information and documentation required by the board, directors.
The directors are made aware that their performance in particular meeting papers, are provided to the board timely to will be subject to an evaluation on appointment.
The results of enable them to prepare fully for any meeting.
the evaluation were reported to the board and where areas of improvement are identified, appropriate actions have been Each director has access to independent professional advice in agreed.
The terms and conditions of the non-executive directors connection with their duties at the companys expense.
The group are available for inspection.
Accounts 31 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders included an assessment of internal controls, in particular, internal The company seeks to develop regular dialogue with shareholders financial controls using group resources, and reports from the and regards such communication to be extremely important.
external auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory Interim and annual financial results are published and copies sent audit work.
These provide a documented and auditable trail of to shareholders.
Further financial and business information about accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by the group, including prior years financial statements and past management for completeness and accuracy.
These procedures announcements is held on the companys website, allow for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher www.
Executive directors are available for meetings levels of management through to the board.
Planned corrective with individual shareholders.
Shareholders also have the actions are monitored for timely completion.
Having reviewed its opportunity to attend the companys AGM where they are able effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in the to raise questions about the groups activities and prospects with groups system of controls during the period covered by this the board and to meet with directors after the formal proceedings report and accounts which could render them ineffective.
The Chairmen of the audit and remuneration were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial committees attended last years AGM and will be present at the reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to forthcoming meeting.
At last years AGM, all resolutions were affect, the groups system of internal control.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution was advised to the meeting.
The group makes every The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including effort to present the interim and annual results accurately and in detailed reviews at all subsidiary undertakings, together with a format that is easily understood by its intended audience.
formal reviews and approval of annual plans by the board.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with institutional Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis measured shareholders and summaries of these discussions and meetings against plan and prior year including a detailed explanation of are provided to the board.
In addition, there is periodic major variances.
The company and its subsidiary undertakings communication with various analysts and the board receives have implemented control procedures designed to ensure copies of their reports issued in relation to the company.
complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and These summaries and reports assist the directors with their to limit the potential exposure to fraud.
The group has clearly understanding of the views and opinions of those with an defined guidelines for capital expenditure and investment interest in the company.
These include annual plans, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence Risk Management and Internal Controls requirements when businesses are acquired.
Any acquisition or In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull committee, the disposal of a business needs formal board approval.
The board directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the reports that full procedures are in place to achieve compliance groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their with the internal control aspects of the Code for the next effectiveness.
The systems are designed to meet the groups financial period.
particular needs and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the businesses are exposed.
They therefore by their The output of these reviews form an important element of nature, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance management reporting and a process is in place for monitoring against material misstatement or loss.
The board considers that the achievement of action plans together with the identification of the measures taken, including physical controls, segregation of new and emerging risks.
An ongoing process of risk management duties and reviews by management, provide sufficient and and internal control in accordance with the Code has been in objective assurance.
place for the financial year under review and up to the date of this report.
The group views the careful management of risk as a During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical key management activity in delivering business opportunities.
The reporting in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the groups ethos of the group, delegation of responsibility and other control system of financial and non-financial controls, including procedures together with accounting policies and procedures are operational and compliance controls, risk management and the communicated through the group and laid out in the group groups high level internal control arrangements.
These reviews procedures manual which is periodically updated.
Accounts 32 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued A high standard of health and safety management is promoted adequately performed by management and therefore does not at all levels within the group.
The groups health and safety currently propose to introduce a group internal audit function but approach is supported by training programmes at operating will keep the matter under review.
businesses, group health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a high level of awareness and commitment.
The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during Individual businesses are assessed on a periodic basis, and the recruitment process and monitored throughout employment.
remedial solutions implemented where necessary.
Line Ethical standards expected of personnel are laid out in the group management retain the responsibility for completion of action procedures manual.
plans with progress being monitored and reported.
Board committees The audit committee meets at least twice a year and in There are three committees to which the board delegates specific accordance with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness areas of responsibility as described below, the terms of reference of the groups systems of internal control.
In accordance with the of which are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
Code the board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a group internal audit function.
The board considers that the The number of full board meetings and committee meetings control systems and procedures undertaken by the group are attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Remuneration Audit board meetings committee meetings committee meetings Non-executive director Trevor Larman Chairman 10 10 3 3 2 2 Executive director Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive 10 10 Executive director Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director 10 10 Executive director Graham Waldron 10 10 Non-executive director Tom Anderson Senior Independent Director 10 10 3 3 2 2 Non-executive director Roger Dickens 9 10 3 3 2 2 Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a board member.
Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the committee Chairman.
Accounts 33 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee the external auditors plan for the audit of the groups The committee comprises Tom Anderson, Roger Dickens accounts, scope of work, key risks, confirmations of auditor Chairman and Trevor Larman, all of whom are independent independence, and approving the terms of engagement for non-executive directors.
Roger Dickens is considered by the the audit board to be the audit committee financial expert, with recent and relevant experience, with the two other members bringing a wide approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable range of experience.
The committee is responsible for to the groups external auditors maintaining and monitoring the adequacy of the groups financial and internal controls and risk management, monitoring the an annual report on the groups system of internal control companys accounting policies and financial reporting, providing and its effectiveness, reporting to the board on the results of a forum through which the auditors report to the board and the the review and receiving periodic updates on key risk areas non-executive directors and ensuring the provision of of financial control information to enable the board to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and post acquisition reports on integration and performance of prospects.
The committee also discusses the scope of the recent acquisitions auditors work and their associated fees.
It meets at least twice a year and the auditors, the Group Chief Executive and the the position with regard to the requirement for an internal Group Finance Director attend when appropriate.
The audit function effectiveness of the groups system of internal control is formally reviewed by the company on an ongoing basis.
The committee The committee periodically monitors the non-audit services being receives reports from the auditors which includes a commentary provided to the group by its external auditors and has developed on the internal control matters that have been identified and a policy to check that this does not impair their independence or meets with the auditors at least once a year to ensure that there objectivity and that a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified are no unresolved issues of concern.
The committee has the firms is maintained.
The policy sets out four key principles, that the opportunity to meet with the external auditors without the auditor should not: audit its own firms work: make management presence of management.
As part of the above the committee decisions for the group: have mutuality of financial interest with the reviews the interim and annual financial results and group: or be put in the role as advocate for the group.
Activities announcement statements, the external auditor report and the that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external annual report.
auditor must be submitted to the committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
Prior approval In 2004 the committee discharged its responsibilities of the committee is required for any services provided by the by reviewing external auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of the group audit fee.
the groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to board approval and reviewing the external These principles are consistent with the Smith guidance on auditors detailed reports thereon audit committees.
The committee periodically reviews all services being provided by the external auditors to review their the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies independence and objectivity taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not the potential impact in the groups financial statements of impaired by the provisions of permissible non-audit services.
certain matters such as the impairment of fixed asset values and proposed International Accounting Standards Details of amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements on page 52.
Accounts 34 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Accountability and audit The committee comprises Tom Anderson, Roger Dickens Statements of the respective responsibilities of the directors and Chairman, Trevor Larman and Tony Brewer.
The committee is auditors for these accounts are set out on pages 41 and 42. responsible for making recommendations to the board on any appointment to the board and at executive management level.
Social responsibility Appointments to executive director are fully discussed by the The group seeks to make a positive contribution to the Chairman and Group Chief Executive with the nomination communities in which it operates, including providing committee before a proposal is formally made to the board by employment on the basis of equal opportunities and merit, the Chairman of the committee.
Potential new non-executive taking account of safety and environmental concerns, supporting directors are suggested by all members of the board with local community activities and making charitable donations.
reference to the requirements of the companys business and the need to have a balanced board.
Potential candidates are The report of the directors has been approved by the board and discussed with all directors before any approach is made to signed on its behalf by them.
The committee did not meet formally during the year.
Geoff Duggan Remuneration Committee Company Secretary The committee comprises Tom Anderson Chairman, 14 March 2005 Roger Dickens and Trevor Larman, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The committee makes recommendations to the board on the companys framework of executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the board, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and senior management.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year the committee consulted the Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the board as a whole and no director may influence their own remuneration benefits.
The remuneration committee is of the view that non-executive appointments are beneficial in broadening executives experience.
Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the company, subject to board approval, retaining all fees earned in respect of such appointments.
Stephen Wilson, Group Finance Director, served as a nonexecutive Chairman of Synergy Healthcare plc throughout 2004, retaining all of the fees that were paid to him for this service amounting to 34,140.
The committees full report on directors remuneration is set out in the remuneration report on pages 35 to 40.
