Corporate governance 34 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Compliance with the Code Throughout the 2003 04 financial year the Board considers the Company was in compliance with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 the Code as it applied to the Company during the year, except with regard to the membership of the Remuneration Committee by each of Eric Nicoli and Steven Tadler.
Following the resignations of Messrs Nicoli and Tadler the Company was compliant with the Code.
The following paragraphs, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43, provide a description of how the Code Principles have been applied within the Company.
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect for UK listed companies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Although the Company is not obliged to report on its compliance with the new Combined Code until the publication of its annual report in 2005 the Board reviewed its Corporate Governance procedures with a view to working towards compliance with the the new Combined Code by that date.
The following paragraphs also provide a description of how the new Combined Code is or will be applied.
The Board The Board comprises five Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and three Executive Directors being the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Group Finance Director.
The biographical details of the members of the Board are set out on page 32.
The Board considers that each of Roy Brown, Mark McCafferty, David Kappler and Lesley Knox are independent.
In addition the Board determined that Robin Miller was independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: the Company has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy: there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement the strategy: there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and the Company is operating in accordance with the principles of Corporate Governance.
The Senior Independent Director, who is also Deputy Chairman, acts as a channel of communication for shareholders who have concerns if those concerns have not been resolved through the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director.
He also oversees senior executives remuneration and remuneration policy as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for running the Companys business.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include the following major matters: the approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals by group companies: substantial alteration in the general nature of the business: approval of the budget and the three year strategic plan: setting of financial and dividend policies: consideration of interim and final dividends: change of auditors, Accounting Policies and practices: changes to the share capital of the Company: appointment and removal of all Directors and senior management: and Corporate Governance and corporate social responsibility of the Company.
In accordance with the new Combined Code at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and the Articles of Association include a requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
Details of those Directors who will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 45.
On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a briefing on their responsibilities as a Director and thereafter receive further guidance and training as and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice at the cost of the Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
During the period under review the Company has established a formal induction process for new Directors.
During the period under review the Executive Directors performance was evaluated, but no formal evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors or Chairman took place.
However, during the 2004 05 financial year, the Board will establish a process for evaluating the individual Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board Committees.
This evaluation process will involve an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and any development plans for the Board will be reviewed annually.
It is intended that performance evaluation will take place by the end of March 2005 at the latest.
The Chairman will be responsible for the evaluation of the individual Board members and the Senior Independent Director will be responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
In each case the views of the other Directors will be canvassed.
The results of the performance evaluation will be reported to the Board and agreed recommendations for improvement, if any, will be implemented.
The Non-Executive Directors met twice without the Executive Directors being present, during the year under review.
During the 2004 05 financial year the Non-Executive Directors are planning to meet, with at least one meeting being held without the presence of the Chairman.
Board Committees There are three principal Board Committees, each of which regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website www.
During the period under review, in light of the new Combined Code, the terms of reference of each of the Board Committees were reviewed and amended.
Each Committee will keep under review its terms of reference and its effectiveness and make recommendations to the Board of any appropriate changes.
The chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which is required to meet a minimum of three times a year, comprised David Kappler Chairman, Roy Brown, Lesley Knox, Eric Nicoli, Mark McCafferty and Steven Tadler all of whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002.
Steven Tadler and Eric Nicoli resigned from the Committee on their resignation as Directors of the Company on 29 September 2003 and 2 February 2004 respectively.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Operating Officer and the external auditors were invited and attended meetings of the Audit Committee.
David Kappler, Chairman of the Committee, has recent relevant financial experience, having been Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc for nine years until his retirement from that Board in April 2004.
The Board believes that the other Committee members have relevant experience to serve on this Committee.
Members attendance at the Committee can be found on page 35.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
Corporate governance continued 35 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 The main duties of the Committee are as follows: i monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial statements: ii the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors: iii approval of the scope of the Companys risk management programme and review of the risk management process: iv reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit function: and v to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good business practices throughout the Group.
During the period under review the Committee met on three occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements, trading statements and other regulatory information disclosed to the public, and a review of the internal audit function and regular reports from internal audit, before making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised Eric Nicoli Chairman, Roy Brown, David Kappler, Lesley Knox, Mark McCafferty and Steven Tadler, all of whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
Robin Miller was appointed Chairman of this Committee on 28 June 2004.
During the year under review, external consultants were used in respect of the appointment of a new Chairman of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director, Roy Brown, chaired the Committee meeting held in respect of this appointment.
Eric Nicoli was not involved in the selection or appointment process.
Meetings are held as and when required.
Members attendance at meetings of the Committee during the period under review is set out below.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and non-executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill vacancies as and when they arise and to put in place succession plans for Directors and other senior managers.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems appropriate.
In addition the Committee will review the Board structure, size and composition and from time to time make any relevant recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised Roy Brown Chairman, David Kappler, Lesley Knox, Eric Nicoli, Mark McCafferty and Steven Tadler, all of whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002.
No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
Robin Miller has, by invitation of the Committee, attended meetings held since his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
No Director is present when the Committee considers matters relating to him or acts in matters relating to him.
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors and other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is terminated having regard to a severance policy adopted by the Board.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 37 to 43.
The Committee is required to meet at least twice a year and a record of members attendance at the Board and other Committee meetings is given below.
Board attendance chart Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 8 9 3 3 5 5 1 1 Neil Bright 8 9 3 2 Alan Giles 9 9 3 3 David Kappler 9 9 3 3 5 5 1 1 Lesley Knox 8 9 2 3 4 5 1 1 Mark McCafferty 9 9 3 3 5 5 1 1 Brian McLaughlin 9 9 2 1 Robin Miller 2 2 2 1 Eric Nicoli 7 7 2 2 4 4 Steven Tadler 4 4 1 1 3 3 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not Committee members, but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
Internal control The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of internal control and risk management and carries out regular reviews of their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups system of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and that these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in the Turnbull Report and that such controls have been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts and that there are satisfactory ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The systems of internal control and the processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of those systems include: Corporate governance continued 36 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Group an internal audit function which carries out a programme of audits covering the management of significant corporate risks and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of key internal controls: detailed risk registers which describe the significant risks and control strategies in each area of the business and which are reviewed annually: a comprehensive system of financial reporting which includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting with rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting to enable the Group to meet its public financial reporting requirements: regular performance monitoring with remedial action taken where necessary: regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision: established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring major projects: a policies and procedures manual which sets out, inter alia, authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, which include annual budgets and appraisal and review procedures.
All operating businesses have to confirm compliance with the manual on an annual basis: certain centralised functions that are staffed by appropriately qualified individuals who draw on external professional advice.
These functions include finance, tax, treasury, management information systems, legal, company secretarial and internal audit: and clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate delegated authorities.
Audit Committee approving the scope of the annual Group risk management programme: reviewing the results of the risk identification process: providing input on risks and internal controls into the annual Board strategy discussions: reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: considering reports from internal and external audit on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: reviewing the internal audit and external audit work plans: and at the year end, before producing the statement in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports generated from the internal and external auditors on any major problems that have occurred during the year.
Relations with shareholders The Board places high importance on maintaining good relationships with both institutional and private investors and ensures, through its investor relations programme, that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group developments.
Shareholders can access further information on the Group via the Companys website at www.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
It is intended that the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director will give major institutional shareholders an opportunity to meet with them during the 2004 05 financial year.
In addition the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys general meetings where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views on the Companys business.
Accountability and audit The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statements of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and in the Operating Review and Financial Review on pages 6 to 31.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming that, in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and the value for money on the other has been kept appropriately in balance.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that where they provide non-audit services their independence is not threatened.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers that it is appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the Group tax advice and other accounting services, including those in connection with supporting and reporting on financial representations in public documentation.
During the year under review the auditors were used for tax planning advice and the Company foresees using the auditors for this advice in the future.
The provision of other services is considered on an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, are given on page 56.
Statement of Directors responsibility The Directors are required by company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit and loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: i select suitable Accounting Policies and then apply them consistently: ii make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and iii state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements in preparing the financial statements on pages 48 to 74.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By Order of the Board Elaine Marriner Company Secretary 29 June 2004
