0145 MFI 42-46 Corp Govern tp 4 4 05 9:18 pm Page 42 Corporate governance report Statement of compliance recognises that this is not in accordance with provision A.
However, the balance The Board is committed to high standards of of executive and non-executive directors is currently corporate governance and supports the principles under review including consideration of the of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code The Code appointment of an additional non-executive member and, except where explained in this report, complies of the Board.
with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
The Board has identied the following nonexecutive directors as independent in accordance Organisational structure with the denition of independence contained in During the year the Board has reviewed whether the the Combined Code: Group has an appropriate organisational structure Tony fide Nunzio Deputy Chairman and Senior for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring independent director the business in a manner which seeks to achieve the Lesley Knox Groups objectives, taking into account the interests Ian Smith of all stakeholders.
Peter Wallis The primary purpose of the Board is to ensure Non-executive directors are appointed for an that the needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are initial term of three years, subject to reappointment satisfied.
The Board seeks to achieve this through the by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment are development of a balanced strategy which serves the available for inspection at the Annual General interests of the stakeholders.
The Boards role is then Meeting and on request.
A Committee appointed to set the context for the business, create suitable by the Board comprising the Chairman and Chief structures for implementing the strategies and to executive officer agrees the fees of the non-executive ensure the coordination, alignment and motivation directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines of resource.
The Board then assesses the results of the Chairmans fee.
All directors are subject to these actions and sets revised priorities where reappointment by shareholders at the first annual appropriate to service the needs of the stakeholders.
general meeting following their appointment by the The Board reviews annually the schedule of matters Board and thereafter no more than every three years reserved for its decision.
The current schedule is by rotation under the articles of association.
available on the Companys website.
The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board currently comprises the non-executive executive officer are clearly dened.
The Chairman Chairman, Ian Peacock, five executive directors and is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring four independent non-executive directors.
The Chief its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting executive officer is John Hancock.
Mark Robson will its agenda, and the Chief executive officer for the be joining the Board as Chief financial officer in satisfactory execution of the strategy agreed by the April 2005.
Tony fide Nunzio is the Deputy Chairman Board working with his fellow executive directors and Senior independent director.
and other Executive Committee members.
Ian Peacocks other commitments include Appropriate training is available to all directors.
being a non-executive director of Norwich and Biographical details of the directors are given on Peterborough Building Society and non-executive page 26.
The Board holds regular meetings and receives The Nominations Committee reviews the Boards accurate and timely information.
During 2004 there composition annually and believes that its current were ten Board meetings.
There was full attendance composition provides the balance of skills and by the members of the Board at each of the meetings experience appropriate to achieve the satisfactory with the exception that Tony fide Nunzio was unable to execution of the Companys strategy and the size, attend the meeting on 20 April 2004, and Ian Smith complexity and geographical spread of the business.
was unable to attend the meeting on 20 July 2004.
Consequently, the Board has no plans to increase the Each year the Board meets to evaluate its number of independent non-executive directors to performance including its Committees.
A report is the number required for at least half the Board to provided to this meeting which summarises the comprise independent non-executive directors and MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 42 0145 MFI 42-46 Corp Govern tp 4 4 05 9:18 pm Page 43 Corporate governance report continued feedback given by all directors to an experienced Audit Committee external facilitator on the effectiveness of the Board The Audit Committee consists of the four independent over the past year.
This report is discussed and areas non-executive directors and is chaired by Tony for improvement identied.
In addition, the external fide Nunzio.
The biographies of the independent facilitator reviews feedback from discussions with directors include details of their qualication for the members of the Board on the performance of the their membership of the Committee.
The Audit Chairman with the senior independent director.
The Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Board believes that committed relationships are the Groups financial systems provide accurate and essential element of an effective Board.
up-to-date information on its financial position and Particular actions which the Board authorised that the Groups published financial statements following the evaluation in 2004 included: represent a true and fair reection of this position.
the enlargement of the Nomination Committees It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate tasks to include more detailed regular performance accounting policies, internal controls and compliance review of all directors, as well as to consider the procedures are in place and monitors the management Chief executive officers assessment of the of risk and the effectiveness of the internal audit Companys senior executives: function by reviewing its work schedule and reports.
charging the Nomination Committee with Following the impact of the significant issues advising the Chief executive officer on the provision arising from the implementation of the new supply or development of candidates for succession: chain systems, a number of enhancements to the reassessing the dashboard which the Board Groups risk management process are being routinely uses, with a view to better identifying implemented.
These enhancements include the any area of potential risk: application of a new assessment process for risks and this work will happen in parallel with the an improved Risk Mitigation Plan format that places Companys risk committees reappraisal of risk, increased emphasis on risk mitigation activities and accompanied by an approach to risk based on the includes the introduction of Risk Performance interests of all stakeholder groups and ensuring Indicators to measure progress made in controlling representation of all relevant management significant risks.
disciplines: Details of Deloitte & Touches fees for audit and the move to balance the Boards proportion of non-audit work during 2004 are shown in note 4 executive and non-executives, with consideration to the financial statements.
of the appointment of a new non-executive The Audit Committee met three times in 2004. member.
There was full attendance by the members of the There is a procedure for all directors to take Committee at each of the meetings with the independent external advice, at the Companys exception that Ian Smith was unable to attend the expense, in the course of their duties via the meeting on 20 July 2004.
The Company secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are Remuneration Committee followed and all directors have access to his advice The Remuneration Committee consists of the four and services.
independent non-executive directors and is chaired The Board has established Audit, Remuneration by Lesley Knox.
It is responsible for advising on the and Nominations Committees each with dened remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and terms of reference.
The terms of reference of these motivate executive directors of the required quality.
Membership of The Remuneration Committee is responsible for these Committees, which is reviewed annually, is developing strategy and policy on executive shown on page 78.
The terms of reference for each remuneration, deciding on the remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website.
packages of individual executive directors and reviewing the remuneration and policy of certain other senior executives who are not on the Board.
MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 43 0145 MFI 42-46 Corp Govern tp 4 4 05 9:18 pm Page 44 Corporate governance report continued A rm of professional advisers, the Chairman, At each of its meetings the Board receives a report the Chief executive officer, the Director of human from the Chief financial officer on relations with the resources and the Company secretary assist the major shareholders and developments and changes Committee in its work.
Full details on the Committees in their shareholdings and, during the year, it is work are contained in the remuneration report expected that the Senior independent director will on pages 29 to 41.
This report includes details on attend a number of meetings with shareholders.
remuneration policy, terms of appointment, and At the Annual General Meeting the Company the remuneration of executive directors.
proposes separate resolutions on each substantially The Committees policy on service contracts has separate issue and, except where a poll is called, the been to offer a notice period for termination by the numbers of proxy votes cast for and against each Company or director of 12 months and liquidated resolution are reported after each resolution has damages of 12 months base salary are applied to any been taken.
The notice of the Annual General payment of compensation on termination.
On change Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working of control of the Company, liquidated damages of days before the meeting.
18 months base salary may become payable.
This Risk and internal control policy, which does not comply with provision B.
1.6 of the Code, has been reviewed by the Committee The Board is responsible for the Groups system of and service contracts issued to newly appointed internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, directors will now provide that liquidated damages whilst the role of management is to implement Board of 12 months base salary may become payable on policies on risk and control.
Such a system is, however, a change of control.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks During 2004 the Committee met eight times.
of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing There was full attendance by the members of the these objectives, internal controls can only provide Committee at each of the meetings with the exception reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
that Ian Smith was unable to attend the meetings on Following the significant issues experienced 7 July, 30 November and 23 December 2004. within the implementation of the new supply chain system, the following additional processes have been Nominations Committee put in place: The Nominations Committee consists of the five specic management teams were convened to non-executive directors, four being independent and examine the root cause of the supply problems, is chaired by Ian Peacock.
The Committee keeps under and to put in place new processes and controls review the composition of the Board, including to reduce and eliminate these issues: succession, and makes recommendations to the management report weekly to the Executive Board for all new appointments and re-appointments.
Committee on the progress with the stabilisation During 2004 the Nominations Committee of the system and the effectiveness of supply to met three times.
There was full attendance by the our customers: members of the Committee at each of the meetings the risk management process outlined below with the exception that Ian Smith and Tony fide was reviewed and enhanced with the emphasis on Nunzio were unable to attend the meeting on ownership, risk mitigation activities and improved 20 July 2004. monitoring activities to act as early warning indicators of risk occurrence.
Relations with shareholders These activities are designed to strengthen the control environment.
The Company considers its relationship with both institutional and private investors to be important The Code recommends that the Board at least annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and readily enters into dialogue with investors.
An investor relations website www.
co. uk system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk provides an ideal channel for communication with existing and potential investors.
Subsequently the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales produced further Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to put their questions to the directors.
guidance on the wider aspects of internal control in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 44 0145 MFI 42-46 Corp Govern tp 4 4 05 9:18 pm Page 45 Corporate governance report continued i Risk The Risk Committee have agreed a number of enhancements to the Groups Risk Management Following the introduction of the Turnbull Guidance Process.
These enhancements include the following: the Board enhanced the Groups existing risk a clearer denition of the Groups appetite for risk management procedures.
The Board can confirm has been recorded and will be used as a benchmark that for the 2004 financial year, and up to the date for risk management: of approval of the annual report and financial new Terms of Reference and Charter have been statements, there has been an ongoing process for documented for the Risk Committee, clearly identifying, evaluating and managing the significant outlining their roles, responsibilities and authority: risks faced by the Group, that is reviewed regularly by the application of a new assessment process for the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
risks which is designed to secure balanced The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief stakeholder benets: financial officer and is comprised of eleven senior the composition of the Risk Committee has been executives from the key areas of the business.
It is strengthened with the addition of four new the responsibility of the Risk Committee to review members from senior roles around the business: the effectiveness of the risk management process and the frequency of reports to the Board on risk and internal controls on behalf of the Board.
The Risk controls will increase: Committee regularly reports to the Board on how an improved Risk Mitigation Plan format has been risks are being managed.
In addition, there implemented that places increased emphasis on risk is a mechanism in place to report significant mitigation activities and includes the introduction control breakdowns or risk occurrences to the of Risk Performance Indicators to measure Executive Committee.
progress made in controlling significant risks: An ongoing process for the effective management Risk Management Indicators have been introduced of risk has been dened by the Risk Committee and that will assist in the identication of emerging is operated in the following stages: risk areas.
risks raised by all areas of the business, through the adoption of both a bottom-up and top-down ii Internal control process are regularly reviewed.
The key risks to The Group has an established framework of internal each business areas objectives are identied and controls, which includes the following key elements: scored for probability and impact.
The key controls members of the Board have responsibility for to manage the risks to the desired level are identied: monitoring the conduct and operations of a database of all risks and controls is utilised, and individual businesses within the Group.
The Group the information ltered to produce a number of reviews the strategies of the individual businesses generic risk areas, forming a key risk register for and the executive management of each business is the Group: accountable for their conduct and performance the Risk Committee reviews the risks to assess the within the agreed strategies: effectiveness of the risk management strategies: the Group and its subsidiaries operate control controls, which mitigate or minimise high-level procedures designed to ensure complete and risks, are confirmed as operated via a selfaccurate accounting of financial transactions, certication process completed by the relevant and to limit exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
operational employees: Measures taken include physical controls, key management are nominated in each business segregation of duties in key areas and periodic area, and are responsible for reviewing their Internal Audit reviews: functions risk register.
Regular reporting on internal and external changes that affect the risks or their importance to the business, and any risk occurrences, are received from these managers: the generic risks and their management are regularly reported to and discussed at the Executive Committee.
MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 45 0145 MFI 42-46 Corp Govern tp 4 4 05 9:18 pm Page 46 Corporate governance report continued the Audit Committee meets regularly and its Statement of directors responsibilities responsibilities are set out above.
It receives United Kingdom company law requires the directors reports from the Internal Audit function on the to prepare financial statements for each financial results of work carried out under a semi-annually year which give a true and fair view of the state of agreed audit programme.
The Audit Committee has affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end independent access to the internal and external of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the auditors: and Group for that period.
In preparing those financial Internal Audit facilitates a process whereby statements, the directors are required to: businesses provide certied statements of select suitable accounting policies and then apply compliance with internal financial controls, which them consistently: are supported by the operation of key controls make judgements and estimates that are reasonable during the period.
and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have Going concern been followed.
After reviewing current performance and detailed The directors are responsible for keeping proper forecasts, taking into account available bank facilities accounting records which disclose with reasonable and making further enquiries as considered accuracy at any time the financial position of the appropriate, the directors are satisfied that the Group Company and enable them to ensure that the has adequate resources to enable it to continue in financial statements comply with the Companies Act business for the foreseeable future.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the the Board believes it is appropriate to continue to assets of the Company and hence for taking adopt the going concern basis in preparing the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection financial statements.
of fraud and other irregularities.
Compliance with the Combined Code By order of the Board The Group has complied, except where explained in this report, with the requirements of the Financial Gerard Hughes Services Authority relating to the provisions of Secretary the July 2003 FRC Combined Code and with the 24 February 2005 Turnbull Guidance throughout the period ended on 25 December 2004 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.. MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 46
