Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its remuneration report on pages 36 to 46.
With effect from 1 January 2004 a new Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, came into effect.
The Board took steps towards compliance with the new Code during 2003 and is able to report compliance throughout 2004 save that the balance of the Board and its committees was temporarily affected by the early retirement of the senior independent non-executive director and the addition of a fourth executive director.
The role of senior independent non-executive director was vacant for a period during the year as Mr T M Gateley succeeded Mr B L Staples, who retired in May 2004, as the senior nonexecutive in November 2004.
Following the retirement of Mr G J Allen as Chairman on 31 December 2004, Mr J W Leng has chaired the Board, retains until 4 April 2005 the chair of the Remuneration Committee and continues to serve on the Audit Committee.
It is anticipated that a new Chairman will be announced by the annual general meeting in May 2005, at which time Mr Leng does not intend to seek re-election for a further term as a director.
The Board has previously announced its intention to appoint a new Chairman and restore appropriate balance through the addition of new non-executive directors.
The search and selection process continues and has so far resulted in the appointments of Mr L Browne and Mr K S Beeston as independent non-executive directors.
Since the end of the year, with the non-executive appointments which have been made, the balance and composition of the Board and all of its committees has already been brought close to full compliance with the Combined Code, which will be attained during 2005.
The Board At the start of the year the Board comprised seven directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: three independent non-executive directors: and two other executive directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board are noted above.
The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the new Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Groups executive management.
The former Chairman, Mr G J Allen, was chief executive before he became non-executive Chairman on 11 May 2001 and was not regarded by the Board as independent.
The independent nonexecutive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details of the current directors are shown on page 28.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
In addition, one third of the Board retire by rotation at each annual general meeting and each director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board provides leadership, direction and control for the business and corporate affairs of the Group and oversees business and management performance.
It has retained direct responsibility for matters not specifically delegated to the executive directors including strategy and key areas of policy, major investment decisions and changes in the composition of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Senior executives from around the Group are invited by the Board to attend certain meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in a written statement approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and running of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
The executive team includes: the Chief Executive, Mr M J Lamb, Finance Director, Mr T J Slack and two operational executives, Mr D C Nicholas, responsible for Fluid Controls, and Mr W R Whitney, responsible for Retail Dispense.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to become familiar with the businesses and there is regular communication between management and non-executive directors.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Combined Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Directors and officers insurance is held by the Company and details have been circulated to each director.
The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy days and visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each meeting held during their tenure save that Mr G J Allen missed four meetings and Mr T J Slack and Mr W R Whitney each missed two meetings.
32 Corporate governance Corporate governance Pursuant to the Combined Code, and in accordance with best practice, the non-executive directors met as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year and the senior independent director convened one such a meeting in the absence of the Chairman.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
Summaries and the full terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee appear on the Company website www.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
The Audit Committee was chaired by Mr T M Gateley.
The other independent non-executive directors, Mr J W Leng and Mr B L Staples retired May 2004, were also members of the Audit Committee.
Mr L Browne joined the committee on 1 January 2005 and Mr K S Beeston joins on 8 March 2005.
Mr T M Gateley is qualified as a chartered accountant and has significant relevant financial experience.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies and significant issues of judgement, internal financial controls, the proposed external audit approach and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the guidance for audit committees in the Smith Report and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non audit work is monitored by the committee.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the IMI Assurance Department, and reviews the operation of the Group whistleblowing policy and procedure.
During the year the committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and benchmarked the audit fee against those of comparable businesses.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
The committee regularly calls upon the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel, including the Controller and the Group Assurance Manager, to attend for parts of its meetings.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired during the year by Mr J W Leng.
The other independent non-executive directors, Mr T M Gateley and Mr B L Staples retired May 2004 were also members of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr L Browne joined the committee on 1 January 2005 and Mr K S Beeston will become a member on 8 March 2005 and take the Chair of the committee with effect from 4 April 2005.
The committees main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of performance related elements of executive remuneration and pensions.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management.
The committee met on five occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
External consultants were engaged by the committee to provide advice and the Chairman and Chief Executive attended its meetings when required.
During the year the committee undertook a review of remuneration with particular reference to performance related remuneration and long term incentive arrangements.
Further information will appear in the circular to shareholders regarding the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work and more details are given in the Remuneration Report.
The Nominations Committee comprised the former Chairman, Mr G J Allen, who chaired the committee, the independent nonexecutive directors, Messrs Gateley, Leng and Staples retired May 2004 and the Chief Executive.
Mr J W Leng assumed the chairmanship of the committee and Mr L Browne joined the committee on 1 January 2005.
Mr K S Beeston will become a member on 8 March 2005.
During the year the committee reviewed Board composition and made nominations for appointments to the Board.
Mr L Browne was identified by the Companys own efforts as a person with great experience in Asia, an important element of the defined search profile given the Companys objectives for development of its business in China.
External search consultants were engaged by the committee in relation to the recruitment of additional non-executive directors and are working to an agreed brief defining the core competencies and profile for each role.
It was through search consultants that the committee identified Mr K S Beeston, who was appointed to the Board on the committees recommendation with effect from 8 March 2005.
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
The committee considered the time that it believed a non-executive director would normally be required to commit to their duties including committee work, and considered whether time given was sufficient.
Each non-executive and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the composition and chairmanship of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, and regarding the choice of a successor to the retiring senior independent non-executive director.
The committee met on three occasions during the year with all members in attendance save that Mr G J Allen missed two meetings.
33 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance continued The senior independent non-executive director, Mr T M Gateley, chairs a special committee established to search for and nominate a new Chairman.
The committee has appointed recruitment consultants to act for it who are separate from those used by the Nominations Committee to search for non-executive directors, and do not otherwise act for the Company.
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors.
It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
It also acts as the Risk Committee of the Board.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2004 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2004 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2003.
A separate resolution for the approval of the remuneration report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2004 annual general meeting was despatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are summarised on the Companys website.
Full details are made available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with JPMorgan Cazenove contact details are shown on page 84.
In addition to the annual report, the Company publishes an interim report to shareholders and issues trading updates at the mid-year and in December.
The Company has its own website www.
com which includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, trading updates, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors regularly meet with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations and report to the Board at least quarterly in that connection.
In addition, financial analysts notes are circulated to the Board and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent non-executive director and other non-executives will meet with major shareholders upon request and otherwise if either of them considers appropriate.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted widely with major shareholders and institutional investor representative bodies concerning the development of the remuneration policy and in particular the proposals for new long term incentive arrangements to be considered at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been in operation for several years.
It is overseen and kept up to date by the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
During and after induction directors are encouraged to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors.
A mixture of assessment questionnaires and other processes for the evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors, including the Chairman, were conducted during 2004.
The assessed contribution and performance of individual directors standing for re-election is summarised in the notice of the annual general meeting issued to shareholders with this Annual Report.
An important outcome of the process was the addition of new directors to broaden the skills and experience of the non-executive presence on the Board and allow a better spread of the workload.
Corporate social responsibility The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and sets a framework of relevant policies for the Group.
Through the Groups risk assessment processes key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified and addressed.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
The Company has also been selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 24 to 27 and on the Company website www.
34 Corporate governance Corporate governance Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control accords with the relevant guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control including the nature and scope of external audit.
The committee also reviews the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Assurance Department.
Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are referred to the Executive Committee at least quarterly.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how it is proposed that those risks be managed.
Through this process business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their nature and urgency and the Board considers what measures would be appropriate in order to manage such risks.
The Board has clearly defined those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules and policies regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
All operating units prepare forward plans annually which make projections for a period of three years.
These plans are reviewed in detail by executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a central internal audit function, IMI Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Assurance Department and co-ordinated with the divisional financial management review processes and external audit.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel in conjunction with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee or the Board, as appropriate, according to their materiality.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, ethical trading, taxation, insurance, legal and regulatory compliance.
Reports are made to the Board at least annually and more often, as appropriate, to keep the Board informed and enable it to consider internal control issues and developments.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2004 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 7 March 2005 35 IMI plc Annual Report 2004
