CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 Corporate governance Corporate governance The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Group is committed to high standards of corporate Chief Executive, which is set out in writing, has been approved governance.
Throughout 2004 and to the date of this Annual by the Board.
In overall terms: Report the Company has been in compliance with the applicable The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance its effectiveness.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 referred to below as the Combined Code or the 2003 FRC Code.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-today basis and is accountable to the Board for its financial and The Board operational performance.
Within the overall strategy and objectives for the Group agreed by the Board, day to day management is delegated to the Chief All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper Executive and Executive Management Team EMT, with individual stewardship of the Companys affairs and share a responsibility for chief executive officers being responsible for the performance of setting and ensuring the highest standards of ethics and integrity each of the businesses.
The Board reviews the operational performance of the Group on The Non-Executive Directors NEDs have a particular responsibility a regular basis and also exercises a number of reserved powers to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief which include: Executive and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: assess risk and the integrity of financial information Responsibility for setting the strategic direction of the Group and controls: and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession and agreeing the Group Strategic Plan: planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Approving the annual budget and Group Finance Plan: Directors and other senior executive roles.
Appointment and dismissal of the Chief Executive and any The Senior Independent Director leads any Board discussions member of the Board or EMT and succession planning for impacting on the Chairman from which the latter absents himself, these roles: in particular in relation to performance and succession.
He is also Establishing, via the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration available to the Chairman as a source of advice on matters policy for Executive Directors and members of the EMT: affecting the operation of the Board generally.
Approving the Groups Sustainability policy and targets including Currently the Board comprises eleven Directors: the Chairman, those for safety, health and the environment: Mr P B Ellwood: the Chief Executive, Dr J D G McAdam: four Approving and monitoring compliance with the ICI Code of Executive Directors and five independent NEDs including the Conduct the Group ethics policy and associated whistleSenior Independent Director, Lord Butler.
Biographical details blowing procedures: of the Directors are set out on page 32 to 34.
Authorisation of material borrowings and any issue of equity Collectively the NEDs bring a valuable range of domestic and securities: international experience and expertise from a variety of business Committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions or sectors and public life.
divestments: The Board has assessed the independence of the NEDs against Agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the NYSE corporate currency and interest risk parameters: and governance rules save that in the case of the latter the Board has Dividend policy.
not sought to enquire into interests of Directors family members other than their spouse.
On this basis, the Board has concluded The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity that all the NEDs are independent in character and judgement.
of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system On the same basis, Mr Ellwood was also independent when of internal control and risk management processes.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings held in 2004 Full Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2004 Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended to attend to attend to attend to attend P B Ellwood 8 8 4 4 Dr J D G McAdam 8 8 A Baan 8 8 445443 Lord Butler 8 8 435443 J T Gorman 8 8 44554 4 D C M Hamill 8 8 R N Haythornthwaite 8 7 4 3 5 544 C F Knott 3 3 Baroness Noakes 7 6 334333 W H Powell 8 8 T A Scott 8 8 37 Committee Chairman Mr Ellwood is not currently a director of any other company and Board Committees his agreement with ICI prohibits him from becoming chairman of The principal Board Committees, which report to the Board, are another company without ICIs consent.
He does perform a the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the number of pro-bono roles but these commitments did not change Audit Committee.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees meet materially in 2004 and the Board remains satisfied that they are at least quarterly and the Nomination Committee as and when not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties as required.
Summary remits of the Committees are set out below Chairman of ICI, which are based around a commitment of and full terms of reference are available via the Investor Relations approximately 150 days per annum.
section of the Companys website at www.
com and in paper form from the Company Secretariat on request.
Directors Two Directors were appointed in 2004. attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during After an externally facilitated search Baroness Noakes was 2004 is set out in the table above.
appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2004.
She brings Nomination Committee broad experience to the Board which is described more fully on The Nomination Committee is responsible for proposing new page 34. appointments of Directors to the Board and reviews succession Mr Charles Knott, Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest plans and arrangements for the Board and EMT.
It met on four International, was appointed an Executive Director on 1 September occasions in 2004.
He brings extensive international experience including, in The Nomination Committee comprises the independent particular, first hand knowledge of managing successful business NonExecutive Directors under the chairmanship of Mr Ellwood.
operations in Asia Pacific, which is described more fully on page 32.
In 2004 the Committee dealt with the appointment of two new Directors as described above.
It also agreed the processes to be All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least followed in relation to future Board appointments and discussed every three years.
Subject to satisfactory performance, NEDs are succession planning arrangements for NEDs.
normally expected to serve two three-year terms commencing with the first Annual General Meeting after the date of their Remuneration Committee appointment.
However, there may be circumstances where NEDs The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, are invited to remain on the Board after the expiry of their second the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, three year term for a further period of up to three years.
Any such Executive Directors and the most senior management of the invitation will be subject to the Director in question standing for Company.
The Committee determines the total remuneration annual re-election by shareholders.
packages for these individuals including any compensation on termination of office.
It met on five occasions in 2004.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He assists the The Committee comprises the independent NEDs under the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access chairmanship of Mr Haythornthwaite.
The Chairman of the to all relevant information.
He also administers the procedure Committee normally invites the Chairman, Chief Executive, under which Directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent Executive Vice President Human Resources and Vice President professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment Performance & Reward to attend meetings to respond to specific or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as questions raised by the Committee.
This specifically excludes any a whole.
matter concerning their own personal remuneration.
The Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 54 includes details of remuneration policy and practices, and the remuneration of Directors.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee categories, subsequently ratifying these with the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its at its next meeting.
Audit and non-audit engagements are also responsibilities for corporate governance, financial reporting subject to authorisation procedures which are related to financial and corporate control.
It met on four occasions in 2004. thresholds, with major engagements requiring authorisation by the The Committee comprises the independent NEDs under the Committee.
The dates on which these individuals Audit and internal control were first appointed to the Committee are as follows: In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the J T Gorman September 2000 Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating A Baan June 2001 and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Lord Butler July 1998 Groups strategic objectives.
The process has been in place R N Haythornthwaite February 2001 throughout 2004 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Baroness Noakes March 2004 Report and Accounts, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed regularly by The Board has determined that Mr Gorman and Baroness Noakes the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration are the Audit Committees financial experts.
Audit Committee Report The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the The work of the Audit Committee during 2004 included effectiveness of the system of internal control include: consideration of the following matters: Discussions with management on risk areas identified by i In respect of the 2003 year end: the full year results release, management and or the audit process: the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F, and the The review of internal and external audit plans: annual report from the external auditor.
The review of significant issues arising from internal and ii The 2003 full year report on internal audit and the external audits: effectiveness of internal control.
The review of management processes for significant Group iii The quarterly financial results and the Interim Report 2004. risks defined by the full Board on the basis of proposals from iv The recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of the Group Risk Committee GRC : KPMG Audit Plc as the external auditors and approval of the Annual compliance statements from each business and 2004 external audit plan and fee proposal.
v The progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of its review of the risk management process for the full Group risk register.
vi The policy on auditor independence and provision of audit The full Board reviews the Group risk register.
The Board then and non-audit services by the auditor.
draws its collective conclusions as to the effectiveness of the vii Reviewing the Groups plans for achieving compliance in 2005 system of internal control.
with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 regarding internal control over financial reporting.
The GRC consolidates and prioritises for the Board the inputs received from management of the businesses and corporate viii The Groups risk management process.
The GRC comprises the heads of major corporate ix Material litigation.
functions, the Chief Internal Auditor and the Deputy General x Developments in accounting standards and the Groups Counsel.
responses, including the preparation for adoption of The GRC reviews input from the businesses and corporate International Financial Reporting Standards.
management and reports its conclusions to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistle-blowing procedures, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place The internal audit function reviews internal controls in all key for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety activities of the Group, typically over a three year cycle.
It acts in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
as a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings, at the invitation response to its recommendations and these are followed up to of the Chairman of the Committee, include: the Chairman, Chief ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Quarterly reviews Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Group are also conducted between internal audit management and Financial Controller and the General Counsel.
The Committee the senior management of the businesses to assess their current regularly meets with the external and internal auditors without control status and to identify and address any areas of concern.
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The internal to preserve the independence of KPMG Audit Plc when acting as control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs auditor of the Group Accounts.
This policy governs the provision and the risks to which it is exposed.
They are designed to manage of audit and non-audit services by the auditor and its associates.
rather than eliminate the risk to the achievement of business It identifies certain non-audit services which the auditor is objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute prohibited from providing.
Certain defined categories of permitted assurance against misstatement or loss.
service are approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis and the Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve additional The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set and the Company Secretary and feedback in person by the by the Chief Executive and are reviewed in total by the Board in facilitator to the Board.
The review concluded that the Board the light of the Groups overall objectives.
including its Committees is working effectively.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the Discussions during and following the review, focused on a number success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control of areas including the following: environment.
Such processes include strategic planning, the Risk Management appointment of senior managers, the regular monitoring of The Group has long established processes, for the assessment performance, control over capital expenditure and investments and management of key risks.
Discussion in 2004 has focused, in and the setting of high standards and targets for safety, health particular, on how to maximise value from the Boards involvement and environmental performance.
Businesses are responsible for in these.
meeting the defined reporting timetables and compliance with Group accounting manuals which set out accounting policies, Succession Planning controls and definitions.
Whilst the Group has long standing succession planning processes for Executives including Executive Directors, no formal processes The Chief Executive receives a monthly summary of financial 39 previously existed with regard to succession planning for NEDs.
results from each business, and the Groups published quarterly These are now in place, centred around an agreed set of desirable financial information is based on a standardised and timely NED capabilities and an annual succession planning review to be reporting process.
led by the Nomination Committee.
Responsibility for monitoring compliance with Group policies Business Unit Strategy and guidelines rests with the chief executive officers of the Approaches to reviewing the strategies and strategic progress businesses and with senior managers at the Corporate Centre.
of the individual business units within the International Businesses Annual statements of compliance are provided to the Board, and were discussed and refined with a view to optimising the quality these statements are reviewed by the relevant functional leader of the discussions with business unit management.
In turn, there is an annual report to the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the degree of compliance US corporate governance compliance with Group policies and guidelines.
Corrections to any weaknesses As a consequence of its US listing, the Company is required to found are monitored and controls are developed to match comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, as it changing circumstances.
The Company continues to monitor its legal and regulatory obligations arising from Sarbanes-Oxley.
The Board effectiveness Company has taken action to be compliant with those rules that On appointment all new Directors receive a formal induction, have already become effective, and has plans to address rules tailored to their particular needs, which includes, as appropriate, with effective dates in 2005 and beyond.
visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
Throughout their period in office Directors are continually updated In accordance with recommendations issued by the SEC, the on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising environment in which it operates.
Directors are advised on appropriate senior executives from the ICI Corporate Centre: the appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations as General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President, a director of a listed company and are updated on these as part Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, and the Chief of their continuing professional development at least annually.
Internal Auditor and Group Financial Controller.
The Committee designs, maintains and evaluates the Companys disclosure All Directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance controls and procedures and reports its evaluation to the Chief evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The reviews are led as indicated below.
In November 2003, the SEC approved the NYSEs new corporate Board Member Review led by: governance rules for listed companies.
Under these new rules, Chairman Senior Independent Director as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, ICI must disclose any Senior Independent Director other Chairman significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ Non-Executive Directors from those required to be followed by US companies under NYSE Chief Executive Chairman listing standards.
We believe the following to be the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and Executive Directors Chief Executive NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies.
The NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Independent Directors Executive.
These discussions include evaluation of Board and Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent individual Director performance and succession plans.
The Chief directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors.
Executive and Chairman each absent themselves when their The NYSE rules include detailed tests for determining director own performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by independence while the Combined Code prescribes a more the Chairman except in relation to his own performance and general standard for determining director independence.
The succession when the Senior Independent Director takes the chair Combined Code requires a companys board to assess director and feedback is provided.
independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is In addition, in 2004, a comprehensive externally facilitated review independent of management and free from any business or other took place of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of This included extensive interviews with all members of the Board independent judgement.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The ICI Board does not have a majority of Independent Directors.
communication with investors and that the Board understands the However, the Board includes a balance of Executive Directors and views of major shareholders rests with the Chairman, who makes Independent Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
On a daygroup can dominate the Boards decision taking and the Company to-day basis the Boards primary contact with major shareholders complies with the 2003 FRC Code.
is via the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer who have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and The Board of ICI has assessed the independence of the NEDs deliver presentations to analysts after the quarterly results.
The against the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the NYSE Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board, corporate governance rules, save that in the case of the latter, however, are also available to meet major investors on request.
the Board has not sought to enquire into the interests of Directors The Senior Independent Director has a specific responsibility to family members other than their spouse.
On this basis the Board be available to shareholders who have concerns which contact has concluded that all the NEDs are independent and that ICI with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has complies with the requirements of the Combined Code.
failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Non-management directors meetings The Board commissions an independent survey of investor views Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors 40 covering both the UK and US on a biennial basis which provides must meet on a regular basis without management present and valuable feedback from investors.
The survey includes a specific independent directors must meet separately at least once per opportunity for investors to comment on the quality of the year.
ICIs NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief communication they receive in their contact with the Chief Executive.
These discussions include evaluation of Board and Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
individual Director performance and succession plans.
The Chairman and Chief Executive both absent themselves when their Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General own performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Meeting to question the Chairman and through him the Chairmen Chairman, except when his own performance and succession is of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
As an alternative, discussed, when the Senior Independent Director takes the chair.
shareholders can leave written questions for response by the Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can Adoption and disclosure of corporate governance guidelines meet informally with the Directors.
To ensure transparency, and in US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and accordance with the principle that every share should be entitled disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of to a vote, all votes at shareholder meetings, other than on the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company procedural issues, are taken by way of a poll.
incorporated in the United Kingdom to include in its Annual Report and Accounts a narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the Combined Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts.
As stated on page 36, ICI complied throughout 2004 with the provisions of the 2003 FRC Code.
The 2003 FRC Code does not require ICI to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which it complies.
Principles of business conduct As a leading international company, ICIs reputation for high ethical standards is central to its business success.
A Code of Business Conduct which provides guidance in this area has been communicated throughout the Group and a confidential, independently operated, whistle-blowing service is also provided to enable staff to report any suspected non-compliance.
The Code is published on the Companys website www.
com and is available in paper form from the Company Secretariat on request.
Shareholder communications Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders and a full Annual Report and Accounts is available by election or on request.
In addition, at the half year, an interim report is produced and sent to shareholders and the quarterly results are published via the London Stock Exchange and by press release.
The Companys financial reports are available to shareholders in paper and electronic form.
com provides financial and other information about ICI and contains an archive of past announcements and Annual Reports.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
