Corporate Governance Report The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Accordingly, throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, it has been in compliance with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
In addition the Group is addressing actively those few issues where it does not yet fully meet the further governance provisions of the New Combined Code the New Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
However the Board is not required to report formally on compliance with the New Code until the Directors report to shareholders in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2005.
Since Imperial Tobacco Group PLC also has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, it complies with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which are applicable to foreign issuers.
In the light of this ongoing obligation, work is currently well underway to enable the Group to meet the further requirements with regard to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which are applicable for our financial year ending 30 September 2005.
Corporate governance compliance The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and this statement, together with the Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, have been and continue to be applied in practice within Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
During the course of the financial year there has been significant rationalisation in the way the Group manages its activities, arising principally from the ongoing integration and consolidation following the acquisition of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Reemtsma in May 2002.
Notwithstanding the ongoing organisational changes, the challenges arising from investing in developing markets and blending of management cultures, the Board and the Audit Committee have continued to keep under review the Groups whole system of internal control, encompassing not just financial but also operational controls, compliance and risk management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place for the whole Group.
Across the Group, formal procedures, including well established and embedded internal controls, have continued to be developed over the course of the current financial year to reflect best practice requirements under the Code in the UK and under the SarbanesOxley Act in the US.
These measures, together with continuing regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant areas of risk to achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The previously reported investigation by German authorities, initiated in January 2003, into alleged foreign trading and related violations by Reemtsma employees during a period prior to its acquisition by the Group which resulted in a number of Reemtsma employees being named in search orders is continuing.
The Group confirms that no charges have been brought against such individuals or Reemtsma in relation to this investigation, which could take several years to be concluded.
A Board Committee, under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander, established in 2003, continues to monitor the progress and conduct of the investigation on a regular basis and the Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
The German authorities investigations are based on alleged activities prior to the Groups acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the German authorities.
As previously reported, information was supplied to the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT in October 2003 in relation to an enquiry into the operations of the UK tobacco supply chain.
To date no response to the information submitted has been received from the OFT.
During the course of the year more detailed business reviews of the Groups operations, performed as part of the Group Compliance Functions normal programme, have also highlighted a number of minor weaknesses and failures in systems of control at the business operations level.
From the resulting investigations into these issues and reports to the Group Compliance Function by business entities of any other instances of fraud or accounting irregularity that occurred, the Audit Committee has concluded that neither individually nor collectively did they have a material impact on the results or performance of the Group for the financial year.
Board and Board Committees The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, which meets at least five times a year, currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors and five Executive Directors, with a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
Mr A G L Alexander is Vice Chairman and the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any concerns can be conveyed.
All of the Non-Executive Directors, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and, following disclosure of their other commitments, have sufficient time available to contribute effectively to the Board.
On 1 October 2003 Mr B C Davidson was appointed to the Board as Sales and Marketing Director, with responsibility for the Groups global sales and marketing activities.
Mr D W Thursfield joined the Board in November 2003 as a Non-Executive Director, having been identified as a suitable candidate by the external search consultancy Whitehead Mann.. 39 Corporate Governance Report The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review and the provisions of the New Code have been taken into account in respect of the balance of the Board together with the outcome of an independent assessment of overall Board performance, undertaken in February 2004 by EquityCulture.
Building on this experience, a further evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is planned for the current financial year, with similar evaluations planned to be undertaken on a regular basis in the future.
In addition, an opportunity was taken in September 2004 for Mr A G L Alexander, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, to meet individually with the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors as a group without the Chairman present to consider the performance of the Chairman.
Similarly during the course of the year the Chairman has held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive Directors to consider the performance of the Executive Directors in the discharge of their duties.
The Directors biographies, appearing on pages 28 and 29, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry together with a range of business and financial experience, vital to the management of an expanding international company and, in respect of the Chairman, includes details of all his other directorships.
The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group and manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, treasury and risk management policies and appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and officers liabilities.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
All Directors are equally accountable by law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed for the development of the business are critically reviewed.
This ensures that they act in the best long term interest of shareholders, take account of the wider community of interest represented by employees, customers and suppliers and that social, environmental and ethical issues are fully integrated into the Groups risk assessment processes.
The Board regularly reviews the strategy and operating results of the business, as well as approving annual and medium-term plans.
Actual results of the Group are reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods.
This ensures that the Board is supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner and that the Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board Meetings.
Over the financial year, the Chief Executives Committee, comprising the Executive Directors, the Director of Finance and Planning and the Group Human Resources Director, continued to meet on a regular basis to ensure appropriate control and management of day-to-day business matters.
Within the framework of the Chief Executives Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business control matters to the Chief Executive and Executive Directors who, with the executive management, are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
They have full power to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the Groups standards and policy guidelines.
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit of each Committee is considered below together with a record of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year.
The terms of reference for each of these Committees are published on the Imperial Tobacco website www.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committee and Shareholders Annual Audit Remuneration Nominations General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in 2004 6 4 4 1 1 Number of meetings attended in 2004 Executive Directors G Davis 6 n a n a 1 1 R Dyrbus 6 n a n a n a 1 D Cresswell 6 n a n a n a 1 B C Davidson 5 n a n a n a 1 F A Rogerson 6 n a n a n a 1.
40 Corporate Governance Report Meetings of the Board, Board Committee and Shareholders continued Annual Audit Remuneration Nominations General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Non-Executive Directors D C Bonham 6 n a 4 1 1 A G L Alexander 6 3 n a 1 1 S P Duffy 5 3 n a 1 S Huismans 6 n a 4 1 1 P H Jungels 53411 I J G Napier 6 3 4 1 1 1 D W Thursfield 3 n a 2 n a 1 Notes:- 1 Mr D W Thursfield was appointed in November 2003, subsequent to the first Board and Remuneration Committee meetings of the financial year.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, Mr D C Bonham, Mr S Huismans, Dr P H Jungels and Mr D W Thursfield, meets at least twice a year under the chairmanship of Mr I J G Napier.
It is responsible for setting salaries, incentives and other benefit arrangements of the Executive Directors and the members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The Committee also oversees the overall policy for senior management remuneration and the Groups employee share schemes.
Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors in excess of 30,000, net of tax, are required to be taken in the form of the Companys shares, with the exception of the Chairman and Vice Chairman, where the requirement to reinvest fees has, by exception, been waived given their continuing high level of investment in the Group.
The Remuneration Report, which outlines remuneration strategy and policy and includes full details of Directors emoluments, has been approved by the Board and appears on page 45.
In addition it highlights the outcome of the comprehensive review of Executive Remuneration and the changes which will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in February 2005.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, comprising all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive with Mr D C Bonham as Chairman, meets when necessary to profile role specifications, formulate succession plans and make recommendations to the Board for the appointment of Directors.
New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The training needs in respect of new appointments to the Board are assessed and induction arrangements put in place as appropriate.
Existing Directors are encouraged to undertake such professional development, as considered necessary, to assist them in carrying out their duties as Directors.
It is anticipated that during the next 12 months, Board membership will be reviewed to ensure that an appropriate level of independent NonExecutive Directors is maintained, through orderly succession and recruitment plans, without compromising Board or Committee effectiveness.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, consisting exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A G L Alexander, Mr I J G Napier and Dr P H Jungels, with Mr S P Duffy as Chairman met four times during the year.
All its members, with the exception of Dr P H Jungels, are qualified accountants or have held senior finance positions in PLCs and are therefore well qualified to discharge the responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the New Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committees terms of reference cover the matters recommended by the Code.
Its duties include monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting policies and reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the full Board.
In addition, in line with the New Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Committee formally reviews all statements containing financial information and in particular the US filing, Form 20-F, prior to Board approval.
The Committee reviews and approves, on an annual basis, the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Group Compliance Function and, as part of the annual assessment of the need for a formal internal audit function, critically reviews the resource allocated to this activity.
The Finance Director, other financial management and the Groups General Manager Compliance attend by invitation.
The Groups Auditors also attend each meeting and have direct access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director or manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
The General Manager Compliance also meets formally with the Committee, without management being present, in line with the New Code requirements.. 41 Corporate Governance Report The Group has always maintained a policy of strict separation between the auditing and consultancy functions of its external Auditors.
The Group has maintained and regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy document, which provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired.
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform.
This policy is published on the Groups website.
The Audit Committee has also carried out bi-annual reviews of the remuneration received by  LLP for non-audit work with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance with this policy.
The outcome of the reviews was not only that performance of the relevant non-audit work by  LLP was the most cost-effective way of conducting the Groups business but also that no conflict of interest exists between such audit and non-audit work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the financial year are principally related to due diligence activity and tax advisory work associated with the reorganisation of legal entities within the Group.
In other situations, proposed assignments are subject to independent tendering with decisions taken on the basis of competence and cost-effectiveness.
Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed by  LLP it was agreed that the Group continues to receive an efficient and effective audit service.
Internal control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Compliance Function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee which regularly reports its findings for consideration by the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control and confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its strategic objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles.
All areas of the business are required to undertake risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks are reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from each business entity for the measurement and assessment of risk areas, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there continues to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identified.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Regular reporting by the Group Compliance Function supports the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls at each business entity through a programme of regular reviews.
In this way, it seeks to minimise the risks identified and satisfy itself that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group.
Control environment and control activities: The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having their own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities.
The Board continues to review the organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and segregation of duties, with personnel of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted roles, remain in place.
Such delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The full Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board to which personnel are expected to comply.
These cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance, and health, safety and environmental issues.
This framework of policies and procedures has been developed and issued, with consistent communication being cascaded down throughout the Group.
The Group has put in place a formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial commonly referred to as whistleblowing arrangements.. 42 Corporate Governance Report The Group has an established and consistent methodology for identifying and ranking business risks and has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies.
This approach is reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure it continues to accurately reflect the relevant risks and takes into account necessary movements in the Groups risk profile consequent upon changes in the business operations.
There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions.
The Groups treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through specialised treasury instruments.
Information and communication: Each area of the business is required to produce detailed financial plans prior to the start of each financial year, which are reviewed for robustness and realism.
A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, is in place to ensure that major variances against plan are promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews are conducted at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by the Chief Executives Committee.
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed on a regular basis using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
Monitoring: A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These include independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant controls.
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance with the Groups policies and covering all business activities both financial and non-financial, have been maintained within their area of responsibility.
The Group Compliance Functions responsibilities include reporting at each Audit Committee Meeting on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group.
Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function.
As a consequence of its US Listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as it applies to foreign issuers.
The Group continues to monitor its legal and regulatory obligations arising from this act and has taken actions to ensure compliance with those requirements that have already become effective.
The Group Compliance Function is developing procedures within its annual compliance plans to address the further requirements which will come in to effect in subsequent financial years.
In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities & Exchange Commission and to meet developing corporate governance best practice in the UK, the Group has also established a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives:- The Company Secretary - Chairman General Manager - Compliance - Co-ordinator Senior Legal Counsel Head of Management Accounting The External Auditors attend by invitation.
In the context of the Groups disclosure obligations, the Committee considers the significance of relevant information identified and reports on its evaluation to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Audit Committee in order to assist them in their evaluation of material issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, and review of the Groups financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Going concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.. 43 Corporate Governance Report Pension fund The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees, consisting of five nominees from the Company, one member chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The Pension Scheme funds can only be used in accordance with its rules and for no other purpose.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements In November 2003, the US Securities and Exchange Commission approved changes to the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE listing standards relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of these standards, being exempt from others.
However there is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with all of the relevant NYSE listing standards.
However, in respect of the NYSE standards relating to the composition of a Nomination Corporate Governance Committee, it is the Groups practice to include the Chief Executive, in addition to all of the Non-Executive Directors, on the Nominations Committee.
Furthermore it is the full Board, not this Committee, that develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group.
It should also be noted that the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the Groups internally independent Compliance Function.
Communication with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders at any meetings with major shareholders are effectively communicated to the full Board so that any issues or concerns are fully understood.
The Groups Annual Review, a summary financial statement, provides shareholders with the material information concerning Imperial Tobacco Group in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders can also request the full Annual Report and Form 20-F. At the half year an Interim Report is published.
All of these documents are available online through the Imperial Tobacco website www.
com, together with all announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
During the year shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Group through trading statements and other announcements of significant developments that are released through the London Stock Exchange, other news services and are available on the Groups website.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences.
This is being extended to ensure that Non-Executive Directors, on appointment, meet with major shareholders and that the senior independent Non-Executive Director attends regular meetings with major investors, if they so request.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
It is the Groups practice to make arrangements to send the Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The Group indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting, together with the number of votes for and against each such resolution, following each vote on a show of hands and subsequently on its website.
Details of abstentions are also disclosed.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the balance sheet date and of the profit or loss and the cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that suitable accounting policies have been used.
These have been applied consistently, with the exception of the changes arising on the adoption of the new Accounting Standards in the year as explained in Changes in accounting policy and presentation under Accounting Policies.
They also confirm that reasonable judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2004 and that applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any given time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Auditors responsibilities Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs Registered Auditors,  LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group as presented by the Directors and for reporting their opinion to shareholders.
Their report is set out on page 57.. 44
