30 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of The names and biographical details of the Chairman, the Deputy corporate governance are maintained by the Company.
The Board Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Senior Independent supports the main and supporting principles and the provisions of Non-executive Director and the chairmen and members of the the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial principal committees can be found on pages 26 and 27.
In the few Reporting Council the Code which came into effect for financial instances where a Director has not been able to attend a Board or years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. committee meeting, this has been due to a prior commitment or The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require for reason of illness.
In such circumstances it has been the normal listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Code, practice for his comments on the papers to be relayed to the how they have applied its principles and whether they have chairman of the meeting in advance of the meeting, and for the complied with its provisions throughout the accounting period.
chairman to communicate the Directors views at the meeting.
This statement, together with the report on Directors remuneration Information regarding meetings of the Board, and the principal on pages 34 to 39, explains how the Company has applied the committees during the year, and Directors attendance principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code.
Following the publication of the Code in July 2003, the Board Board Scheduled Ad-hoc commenced a review of its corporate governance practices, policies and procedures in light of its provisions.
This review was completed Number of meetings held 8 1 early in 2004, culminating in a number of changes which were Sir John Egan Chairman 8 1 implemented by the Board on 29 January 2004, its first meeting in Ken Hanna 7 the year.
These included a revised schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision and new membership and terms Simon Robertson 7 1 of reference of the Boards three principal committees, the Audit Michael Wemms 8 1 Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Hugh Norton retired 13 May 2004 4 Committee.
During the year the Board continued to keep corporate governance matters under review, monitoring policies and Trevor Taylor retired 31 December 2004 7 guidelines issued by the main institutional bodies, such as the Raymond Chien 7 Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, and adopting appropriate recommendations of Peter Johnson 8 1 relevant bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Alan Ferguson 8 1 Administrators and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Graeme Potts 8 England and Wales.
Directors Nomination Committee Scheduled Ad hoc The Board The Board recognises its collective responsibility Number of meetings held 2 4 for leading and controlling the Group.
It is responsible for setting Sir John Egan Chairman 2 4 the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that sufficient resources are available for the Group to meet its objectives and monitoring Hugh Norton retired 13 May 2004 1 2 executive management.
It is also responsible for setting the Simon Robertson 1 4 Companys values and standards in corporate governance matters.
Peter Johnson 2 4 The Directors act in the best interests of the Company, cognisant of their duties to shareholders and also with consideration for Ken Hanna appointed 26 February 2004 1 2 other stakeholders.
Michael Wemms appointed 29 July 2004 1 2 The Board has a formal schedule of matters required to be brought to it for its decision.
Such matters include: strategy and Remuneration Committee Scheduled Ad hoc management: major investments, acquisitions and disposals: corporate and capital structure: financial budgeting, reporting and Number of meetings held 3 5 controls: monitoring internal controls: approval of major contracts: Michael Wemms appointed Chairman 13 May 2004 3 5 external corporate communications: Board membership and Hugh Norton Chairman retired 13 May 2004 1 1 appointments: corporate governance: and Group policy in important areas.
Simon Robertson 3 4 There are clear written Terms of Reference for the Ken Hanna 3 2 responsibilities delegated to the principal committees.
Through the Nomination Committee, the Board fulfils its role in nominating new Audit Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Directors and succession planning.
The Remuneration Committee determines appropriate levels of remuneration of the Chairman, Number of meetings held 3 0 the Executive Directors and senior executives.
Through its Audit Ken Hanna Chairman 3 Committee, the Board discharges its responsibilities in respect of Hugh Norton retired 13 May 2004 1 the integrity of financial information, on the financial, operational and compliance controls and on the systems of risk management.
Simon Robertson 2 Below Board and principal committee level, there are clear limits on Michael Wemms 3 the authority that management committees and individuals have to make financial commitments.
The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without the The Board and its principal committees meet regularly Executive Directors present as necessary.
One meeting was held during the year.
In setting the timetable the Chairman and, in the during the year.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director also case of the committees, the committee chairmen, with the support meets the other Non-executive Directors without the Chairman of the Group Company Secretary, ensure that sufficient regular present, as needed, including an annual appraisal of the Chairmans meetings are scheduled and other meetings held as required performance.
in order for the Board and the committees to discharge their If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the running respective duties sufficiently.
In 2004 the Board had eight regular of the Company or a proposed action, these would be recorded in meetings and one ad hoc meeting.
In addition, the Board held a the Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign over an unresolved strategy review.
issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
No such concerns or issues arose during the year.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 31 For some years the Company has purchased insurance to cover its In the case of urgent matters the policy adopted by the Board is to Directors against legal action taken against them in that capacity.
hold a telephone or video conference meeting in which as many Directors as possible can participate.
Papers for such meetings are Chairman and Group Chief Executive The role of the Chairman is sent to all Directors as far as possible in advance of the meeting separate from that of the Group Chief Executive.
Their respective to enable them to communicate their views to the Chairman, roles and responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by another participating Director, or the Group Company Secretary the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions to before the meeting.
achieve overall Board and individual Directors effectiveness, whereas Newly appointed Directors who have not previously held listed the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operational company board appointments, receive appropriate external training.
implementation of the strategy and policies agreed by the Board.
An induction process, which includes site visits, has been Matters are referred to the Board as a whole and no one individual or developed for newly appointed Directors to ensure that they are small group of individuals has unfettered powers of decision.
aware of their responsibilities and are properly apprised of the Board balance and independence All Directors bring an independent Groups activities and strategic direction.
In addition, the Company judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, has an induction and ongoing training programme, which covers including key appointments, and standards of conduct.
In addition to generic induction for new Board members and arrangements for the Chairman, the Board currently has six Non-executive Directors individual coaching and annual best practice updates for the whole who bring to the Group a wide diversity of experience and of the Board where appropriate.
These arrangements are designed expertise.
Trevor Taylor, who retired from the Board on 31 December to ensure that Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity with the 2004, was not regarded as independent because he was formerly Company are kept up to date to enable them to fulfil their role both an Executive Director.
Raymond Chien is not regarded as on the Board and on its committees.
Ongoing training will continue independent because he previously had a service contract with to be provided by a combination of internal and external resources.
Crown Motors Limited, a subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Business presentations from the heads of business units have been Hong Kong.
The other Non-executive Directors, including the incorporated into the Boards schedule and the schedule now Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent in includes at least one meeting each year at one of the Groups accordance with the Code as being independent in character and operational locations.
judgement and having no relationships which are likely to affect, or There is a procedure for Directors to take independent could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
However, since the professional advice at the Companys expense where relevant to Code does not treat the Chairman as being independent after the execution of their duties, although no Director felt it necessary appointment, the Board has decided that it should no longer count during the year.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible the Chairman as an independent Non-executive Director when for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance considering compliance with the Code.
Consequently the Chairman matters and all members of the Board have access to his services is no longer a member of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration and advice.
Committee, although he does continue to attend these meetings Performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman put in by invitation.
He continues to chair the Nomination Committee.
place a process for evaluating the Board using Towers Perrin, an Simon Robertson is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director independent external adviser.
All members of the Board were and he is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
interviewed by Towers Perrin using a detailed questionnaire which No-one, other than the committee chairman and members, was designed to test a range of areas which the Code regards as is entitled to be present at meetings of any of the three principal necessary for good governance.
Other key individuals who attend committees, although others, including the Chairman, do attend by Board or committee meetings or support the Board or the invitation of the relevant committee.
committees in other ways were also interviewed.
The results of During the year less than half the Board, excluding the the evaluation of individual Directors were communicated to them Chairman, comprised Independent Non-executive Directors.
The evaluation of Board performance was However, since 1 January 2005, following the retirement of Trevor discussed by the Board and by each of the committees in respect of Taylor, the Board has complied with the Code in this respect.
The evaluation found that the Board Board believes that the quality of individuals is more important than and its committees were generally performing effectively but there absolute numbers.
Having regard to its succession planning, its were ways in which performance could be improved.
Actions were priority is to recruit individuals of high calibre and with the right agreed and are being implemented to address the issues which balance of skills, knowledge and experience required.
The Board has agreed that it will carry out evaluations however, recognised that Board balance under the Code was an annually.
The process will be repeated in 2005 using internal issue.
With the retirement of Trevor Taylor and Simon Robertson in resources and the process for succeeding years will be considered mind, the Board commenced the search for two new Independent once the next evaluation has been completed and the results Non-executive Directors.
This process resulted in the Board being are known.
The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior further strengthened by the appointment of Will Samuel and David Independent Non-executive Director, are responsible for Scotland.
performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account Appointments to the Board The Code requires that there be a the views of the Executive Directors.
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Election and re-election Non-executive Directors are appointed for of new Directors to the Board, which should be made on merit an initial period of three years, which may be extended by and against objective criteria.
The main responsibility for Board agreement with the Board.
All Directors currently on the Board have appointments is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
submitted themselves for election or re-election as applicable The processes and work of the Committee is set out in more within the last three years, as required by the Companys Articles of detail on page 32.
The processes described were followed in the Association.
Their terms of appointment are available for inspection recent search and appointment of Will Samuel and David Scotland at the Companys registered office during normal business hours as Non-executive Directors on 26 January 2005 and 24 February and at the Annual General Meeting for fifteen minutes prior to the 2005 respectively.
meeting and during the meeting.
Information and professional development Board and committee When considering the election or re-election of a Director, papers are generally distributed six days in advance of the meeting the entire Nomination Committee takes into account the review and the Board and its principal committees consider that this timing of his performance.
This is particularly rigorous in the case of a and the information which has been supplied is sufficient to enable Non-executive Director for any term beyond six years.
A similar them to discharge their respective duties.
process is applied in considering the appointment or reappointment of a Director to the principal committees.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 32 Corporate governance report continued Board committees The Board has three principal committees, all with written terms than Hugh Norton who retired during the year, and Michael Wemms, of reference which are available on the Companys website who was appointed on 29 January 2004, served throughout the year.
The Group Company Secretary serves as The participation of Sir John Egan on the Committee was reviewed in secretary to all three committees.
the year in light of the provisions of the Code.
While Sir John Egan continues to attend meetings, he ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee Membership during 2004: Sir John Egan Committee with effect from 29 January 2004.
Will Samuel and David Chairman, Peter Johnson, Simon Robertson, Ken Hanna and Scotland were appointed to the Committee on 26 January 2005 and Michael Wemms.
Ken Hanna was appointed on 26 February 2004 24 February 2005 respectively.
With the exception of Sir John Egan and Michael Wemms was appointed on 29 July 2004.
The other member until 29 January 2004, whom the Code does not treat members served throughout the year.
Hugh Norton served until as independent, the Committee comprised wholly Independent his retirement on 13 May 2004 at the 2004 AGM.
At all times Non-executive Directors during the year and continues to do so.
the majority of members have been Independent In light of Ken Hannas qualifications as a Chartered Accountant Non-executive Directors.
and his experience with Coopers & Lybrand, Compass Partners and Role: The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year.
Cadbury Schweppes, the Board has determined that he has recent In 2004 it met six times.
It is responsible for leading the process and relevant financial experience.
for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Sir John Egan, the Chairman, Peter Johnson, the Group Chief Board.
Before the Board makes an appointment, the Committee Executive, Alan Ferguson, the Group Finance Director, Tim Trounce, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the the Director of Audit and Risk Management and the external Board and in light of this evaluation prepares a description of the auditors also attend meetings of the Committee.
Attendance of role and capabilities required for a particular appointment in non-members is at the discretion and by invitation of the Committee consultation with an external search consultant who is appointed to Chairman.
The Non-executive Directors on the Committee have work with the Committee.
The consultant prepares a list of potential the opportunity at each meeting to review any issues with the candidates which is discussed by the Committee and reduced to a external auditors and with the Director of Audit and Risk shortlist.
The shortlist candidates then meet with the Chairman, Management without any other members of the executive who is also Chairman of the Committee, and the final candidates management being present.
Following this, and in the light of Role: The Committee meets at least three times a year.
It is feedback received, the Committee meets to finalise a responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements recommendation to the Board.
A Director may be consulted by of the Company and any formal announcement relating to its the Committee in the course of the process to appoint his financial performance, reviewing internal financial controls and successor but it is the policy of the Board that he does not internal control and risk management systems, monitoring and participate in the decision on the appointment.
reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function, making During the course of the year the Committee met to consider recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the removal of the external auditor, reviewing the external auditors skills, knowledge and experience available.
It also considered independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit development and succession plans and these will be considered process, and for policy on the engagement of the external auditor annually.
It made recommendations to the Board regarding the to supply non-audit services.
It is also responsible for reviewing the appointment of Michael Wemms as a new Independent Companys arrangements for employees confidentially to raise Non-executive Director and for his election and for the re-election of concerns about possible improprieties in relation to financial Sir John Egan and Peter Johnson at the 2004 AGM.
Sir John Egan reporting or other matters.
In order to fulfil its duties, the Audit did not chair the Committee, and neither he nor Peter Johnson Committee receives and challenges presentations or reports from participated in the meeting when the recommendations regarding the Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the their respective re-election were considered.
Having regard to the external auditors.
forthcoming retirement of Trevor Taylor at the end of 2004 and Part of the Committees responsibility in relation to external Simon Robertson at the AGM in 2005, it initiated a recruitment auditors is to keep their independence and objectivity and the process for two Independent Non-executive Directors which nature and extent of the non-audit services they provide under resulted in the appointments of Will Samuel and David Scotland.
The Committee has established policies and Remuneration Committee Membership during 2004: Michael procedures in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Wemms Chairman, Simon Robertson and Ken Hanna.
Hugh external auditors pursuant to which external auditors services are Norton served until his retirement at the AGM on 13 May 2004. not permitted on areas such as internal audit, appraisal or valuation All the members, other than Hugh Norton who retired during the services and financial information systems design implementation.
year, and Michael Wemms, who was appointed on 29 January Financial limits are imposed on permitted areas of non-audit work, 2004, served throughout the year.
The participation of Sir John such as tax advice.
Egan on the Committee was reviewed in the year in light of the A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit provisions of the Code.
While Sir John Egan continues to attend services is provided in note 4b on page 51.
Non-audit fees were meetings, he ceased to be a member of the Committee with higher than usual mainly due to the significant work undertaken on effect from 29 January 2004.
Will Samuel and David Scotland the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
were appointed to the Committee on 26 January 2005 and 24 February 2005 respectively.
With the exception of Sir John Communication with shareholders Egan member until 29 January 2004, whom the Code does not The Company encourages two way communication with its treat as Independent, the members of the Committee comprised institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all wholly Independent Non-executive Directors during the year and queries received verbally or in writing.
The preliminary and interim continues to do so.
results are presented publicly to analysts and other meetings with Role: The Remuneration Committee is responsible for shareholders are arranged as appropriate.
remuneration issues regarding Executive Directors and certain The Company has an established Investor Relations senior executives within the framework recommended by the programme in the course of which the Group Chief Executive and Committee and approved by the Board.
More details are given in the Group Finance Director have regular meetings with major the Board report on remuneration on pages 34 to 39. shareholders to update them on the Companys progress and to discuss any issues that investors may have.
During these meetings, Audit Committee Membership during 2004: Ken Hanna Chairman, shareholders were reminded of the availability of the Chairman, Simon Robertson and Michael Wemms.
Hugh Norton served until the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the rest of the his retirement at the AGM on 13 May 2004.
All the members, other Board if they wished to meet them.
Any issues arising at such Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 33 meetings are reported and considered by the Board.
In addition, Operating unit controls The overall control framework for the Group the Companys stockbrokers, UBS, obtain shareholder feedback on is detailed in the Group Finance and Information Systems manuals a confidential basis from major investors following the meetings and and is supplemented by risk management policies.
Compliance with this is reported in summary and considered at Board meetings.
Group policies and the effectiveness of internal controls are regularly The Chairman has written to the largest fifteen shareholders assessed through the audit process and through a process of self emphasising his availability and that of the Senior Independent certification, which requires business unit management to assess Non-executive Director and the rest of the Board, including new annually the quality of internal controls in their businesses.
Non-executive Directors, should they wish to meet.
Risk management The Groups management operates a risk The Company makes constructive use of the AGM in management process, which identifies the key risks facing each accordance with the Code.
Private investors are encouraged to business unit twice a year.
A risk register, which identifies the key participate in the meeting at which the Chairman comments on the risks, the impact should they occur and actions being taken to performance and outlook for the Company and the Group Chief manage those risks to the desired level, is produced for each Executive makes a presentation on operational and strategic issues.
In addition, actions to be taken in the event that such In addition to Sir John Egan, who is Chairman of the Nomination risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they are Committee, the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration managed are also included.
This information is passed up the Committees will be available to answer shareholder questions.
organisation on a filter basis, culminating in the production of a Group Risk Register, which is approved by the Risk Committee and Remuneration report provided to and discussed with the Audit Committee.
In addition, The Companys policy on executive remuneration with details of the internal audit continuously reviews financial, commercial and Executive Directors salaries, annual bonuses, long term incentives systems developments in the Groups business units to ensure and pensions, and fees for the Non-executive Directors appears in appropriate audit focus in the major risk areas.
the Board report on remuneration on pages 34 to 39.
Investment appraisal The Group has clearly defined policies for Internal control capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing key appraisal and review procedures.
procedures designed to achieve a sound system of internal control The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide systems in operation during the financial year through the processes only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material set out above.
misstatement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to monitor and review internal Auditors independence controls, with its Chairman reporting the results of such reviews The Company has an established policy on the provision of to the Board.
In addition, the Board has entrusted executive non-audit services by the external auditors as shown on page 32 management with responsibility for implementing internal of the report.
Through its Audit Committee, the Company has control procedures.
reviewed a report from its auditors,  LLP The Group operates a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the PwC, confirming, in their professional judgement, their Group Chief Executive and includes, inter alia, the Group Finance independence.
The review included the audit, audit related, tax Director, Group Company Secretary, Treasury Director, Director of and consulting services provided by PwC, and compliance with Audit and Risk Management and the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk the Group policy introduced in 2003 which prescribes the types Committee meets quarterly to consider what changes to risk of engagements for which external auditors may be used.
management and control processes should be recommended.
The Committee also noted that the audit partner is subject to a Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks that five year fixed term rotation.
Having regard to the policy on the have been identified, output from monitoring processes, including engagement of external auditors for non-audit services, and the internal audit reports, and changes to be made to the internal report from the auditors, the Company concluded that there are control system.
It also follows up on areas that require improvement sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the continued and reports back to the Audit Committee every six months, or more level of independence.
The Group Chief Executive also reports to the Board, on behalf Statement of compliance with the Combined Code of executive management, significant changes in the Groups The Company was in compliance throughout the year ended business and the external environment in which it operates.
31 December 2004 with the Code except, as explained above, the In addition, the Group Finance Director provides the Board with proportion of Independent Non-executive Directors on the Board, monthly financial information, which includes key performance and excluding the Chairman, was less than half.
There were certain other risk indicators.
exceptions, which are shown below.
These were all addressed by The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures the Board on 29 January 2004, its first meeting of the year, after it include the following: had concluded its review of its corporate governance practices, policies and procedures in light of the Code.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with A.
4.1 The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee an annual budget approved by the Directors.
Monthly actual results were revised by the Board and were made available on the are reviewed and reported against the budget and, where Companys website immediately thereafter.
appropriate, revised forecasts at each of the Boards scheduled B.
2.1 Sir John Egan ceased to be a member of the meetings.
Monitoring systems The internal audit group reports to the Audit The membership and the Terms of Reference of the Committee on its examination and evaluation of the adequacy and Remuneration Committee were revised by the Board and were effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
The internal made available on the Companys website immediately thereafter.
audit group also works closely with management and the external C. 3.1 Sir John Egan ceased to be a member of the Audit auditors, and significant issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
The membership and the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee were revised by the Board and were made available on the Companys website immediately thereafter.
