Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2004, the Company complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except for the following matter.
Code Provision A2.2 specifies that upon appointment the Chairman should meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Mr D Smith was Chief Executive of Taylor & Francis Group plc up to the date of the merger, 10 May 2004, when he was appointed Chairman of the newly merged Group, T&F Informa plc.
He was appointed Chairman because the Board felt that it was important to retain the experience and continuity which Mr Smith could provide, particularly during the important period following the merger.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, major shareholders were consulted after the proposed merger had been announced on 2 March 2004 and in advance of the actual appointment.
Mr D Smith also stood for re-election at the July 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The paragraphs below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report, explain how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
There is a schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval and this was updated following the Companys merger in May 2004 when the composition of the Board changed considerably.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: approval of the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy and approving its annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: approving appointments and removals to the Board and of the Company Secretary and to main subsidiary companies: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the Executive Directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments against plans and objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined and was updated subsequent to the Companys merger in May 2004.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
During 2004 Mr Smith also oversaw the programme to identify and achieve revenue and cost synergies arising from the merger.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
The Chief Executive is also primarily responsible for developing and articulating the Companys strategy and for day-to-day dealings with shareholders, particularly following the interim and year-end results announcements.
Senior Independent Director Mr R Hooper has been designated as the Senior Independent Director throughout 2004.
He is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence As of 31 December 2004 the Board comprised the Chairman, five independent Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors, together with their brief biographical details are given on pages 16 and 17.
The periods served by each Director during 2004 are set out on page 18.
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board has considered the independence of Mr S Watson with particular care in view of his position as a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna, one of several legal advisers used by the Company.
The Board does not consider the relationship between the Company and the law firm to be of a material nature given that the 20 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 transaction values between the two entities have not exceeded 0.25% of their respective turnovers during each of the four years ended 31 December 2004.
In addition Mr Watson does not lead any transaction or have any significant role in any work undertaken by the law firm on behalf of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order to carry out their responsibilities.
The Chairman, Mr D Smith, does not have any other significant professional commitments or directorships outside the Group.
Professional Development On appointment the Directors receive relevant information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board and management committees and the powers delegated to those committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
On appointment Directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business and the environment in which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and which affect themselves as Directors and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
Performance Evaluation The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Directors, with particular attention to those who are due for re-appointment.
On appointment the Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to an evaluation.
For 2004 the evaluation has been performed with the assistance of independent professional advisers.
Using a set of questions agreed in advance with the Chairman, the independent advisers conducted a series of focused interviews with each member of the Board in his or her capacity as a Director and, where applicable, as a member or Chairman of a principal committee.
They also conducted interviews with the Company Secretary and a number of the Groups key managers and selected professional advisers.
In addition the independent advisers reviewed the papers and minutes of Board and Committee meetings, focusing on the period subsequent to the Companys merger.
The process was overseen by a Steering Committee consisting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
The initial findings and recommendations of the independent advisers were presented first to the Steering Committee and then to the members of the Board.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board continues to review the independent advisers findings and recommendations with a view to implementing, where appropriate, any recommendations made to improve the overall effectiveness of the Board.
Re-election Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period envisaged to last three years and thereafter subject to annual review.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved for Board decision, the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Information Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports from the Chief Executive which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Relations with Shareholders In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations under the Combined Code, the Chairman provides the Board with feedback on any issues raised with him by shareholders.
In addition, the Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
These include meetings with the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the announcement of the Groups interim and annual results.
In addition the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held with shareholders after the interim and annual results announcements, the Board receives feedback from each of the Chief Executive, the Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
External brokers reports on the Group are also circulated to all Directors, as are quarterly reports of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 21 Corporate Governance continued The Annual General Meeting AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after the meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Group maintains a corporate website at www.
com containing a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors.
This includes all announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange as well as video recordings of the interim and annual presentations made to analysts.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Turnbull Report, the Board regularly reviews this process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this Report.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high-level internal control arrangements.
The Boards monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed an assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the Report including the work of internal audit.
The Directors view the careful management of risk as a key management activity and steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with any areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards attention.
For example, toward the end of 2004 the Groups internal audit function was strengthened by the appointment of a new head of Business Risk Management and the appointment of a firm of independent professional advisers to augment the internal audit resource.
Board Committees The number of scheduled full Board meetings and committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings D Smith appointed 10 May 2004 on merger 5 5 2 2 P Rigby 6 7 D Gilbertson 7 7 A Foye appointed 10 May 2004 on merger 5 5 J Wilkinson resigned 10 May 2004 on merger 2 2 R Hooper 7 7 2 2 4 4 2 3 S Watson 6 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 D Mapp appointed 10 May 2004 on merger 5 5 3 3 2 2 P Kirby appointed 1 Sep 2004 2 2 D Cruickshank appointed 10 May 2004 on merger 5 5 2 2 3 3 2 2 E Barton resigned 10 May 2004 on merger 2 2 1 1 1 1 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the Director was a Board member.
Nomination Committee The Company has established a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in May 2004, are available on the Companys website.
From 1 January 2004 to 10 May 2004, the date of the merger, the Committee comprised Messrs R Hooper Chairman, S Watson and E Barton: however there was no business which required the Committee to meet during that period.
Following the merger the Committee was reconstituted to comprise Messrs D Smith Chairman, R Hooper, S Watson and D Cruickshank.
Mr D Cruickshank resigned on 24 January 2005.
The Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and experience that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of Directors who meet these requirements to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
Following the merger the Nomination Committee met twice for the purpose of appointing an additional Non-Executive Director to the Board.
The Committee began the process by identifying the core competencies and attributes required of the candidate to fill the role.
It then engaged an independent professional search firm to seek out and identify potential candidates.
A short list of candidates was agreed by the Committee and then interviewed, first by the Committee Chairman and then by the other Committee members.
The Committees recommended candidate, Dr P Kirby, then met with the rest of the Directors before being appointed by the full Board, with effect from 1 September 2004.
22 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration Committee Information about the Remuneration Committee is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26.
The Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in May 2004, are available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: set, review and recommend to the Board for approval the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors and the Chairman: set, review and approve individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the Chairman including terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and approve the rules and launch of any Group share-based incentive schemes and grants and awards under such schemes.
Audit Committee From 1 January 2004 to 10 May 2004, the date of the merger, the Audit Committee comprised Messrs R Hooper Chairman, S Watson and E Barton.
Following the merger the Committee was reconstituted to comprise Messrs D Mapp Chairman, R Hooper and D Cruickshank.
Since being reconstituted the Committee has had at least one member possessing recent and relevant experience, as described in the Smith Report appended to the Combined Code.
Mr Cruickshank is a qualified accountant and has held a number of senior positions including, until 2003, Chairman of the London Stock Exchange.
Mr Mapp also has extensive experience of audit committee procedures.
It will be seen from the Directors biographical details appearing on pages 16 and 17 that the other members who served on the Committee during the year possess a wide range of high-level experience.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups system of internal controls and the process for monitoring and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
The Committee meets with the Executive Directors and management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
In 2005 the Committee discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the Groups January pre-Close Period update prior to its release: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial statements of certain matters such as the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: following the merger, reviewing the appointment of the Groups external auditors leading to a recommendation, adopted by the full Board, to appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, with effect from 24 October 2004: reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, which included key areas of scope of work: key risks on the accounts: confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness and reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage risks: reviewing and strengthening the Groups internal audit function through the appointment of a new head of Business Risk Management and the appointment of a firm of independent professional advisers to augment the internal audit resource: and reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance of significant recent acquisitions compared to plans.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistle blowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in May 2004, are available on the Companys website.
Auditor Independence and Objectivity The Audit Committee regularly monitors the scope of the services and the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration the relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 23 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility The Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility CR is evolving and the Directors consider CR to be an integral part of the overall corporate governance framework.
The Groups management structure is largely decentralised and as a result individual operating businesses have their own distinct cultures and management styles.
Whilst we look to establish a more centralised approach to CR policy and collation of Group-wide key performance data during 2005, we will seek to avoid developing processes and bureaucracy which provide little practical value or which fail to reflect the cultural diversity of the Groups operating businesses.
Management recognises the importance of managing CR risks, particularly reputational risk, and during 2005 plans to install a CR Steering Committee with representation across the Group.
The Committee will be chaired by the Chief Executive, Mr P Rigby, and its remit will include regularly reviewing the social, environmental and ethical SEE risks faced by the Group.
The Company is currently in the process of recruiting a CR manager and is also a member of the Media CSR Forum, a group of 19 leading media companies who are committed to working together to further CR within the media sector.
In 2004, the Media CSR Forum engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a stakeholder consultation and analysis project.
KPMG identified and consulted with more than 130 external opinion leaders from the media, the CR community, socially responsible investors, and the financial community to help identify and prioritise the CR issues relevant to the sector.
This work identified five key issues for the sector as a whole: transparent and responsible editorial policies, corporate governance, integrity of information, impartial and balanced output and investing in and supporting staff.
The work also identified the priority issues specific to both the publishing and exhibition conferencing industries.
During 2005, the findings and the recommendations from the project will be reviewed by the CR Steering Committee and it is anticipated that the insights will help to further develop and refine our thinking around CR, as well as provide the basis for further discussion with the Groups stakeholders.
Workplace Our employees are critical to the success of the business.
Within the competitive environment in which the Group operates recruiting talented people and developing, recognising and rewarding them are fundamental to the Groups future success.
Through our Career Working Group, which was established during 2004, we are currently reviewing the structure and focus of our training and career development programmes to enhance them and to bring consistency across the recently merged Group.
The Group seeks to keep employees informed of developments within the organisation and we achieve this through a variety of channels, including meetings with and presentations by senior management.
In addition, an online area has been established where staff can ask the executive management questions anonymously and responses are published on the intranet.
The Informa group also conducted an annual on-line employee survey, based on the companys core values, with a response rate of around 60%.
Results are fed back through the Staff Consultative Council, a representative body of staff members of which are voted for by colleagues which is UK based, meets quarterly and is supported by the Group Managing Director.
It is intended to role out the survey process to the rest of the enlarged Group during 2005.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunities, ensuring that employment terms for its employees are fair, irrespective of race, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, religion or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applicants for employment, the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled persons.
Throughout its operations the Group is committed to a high standard of health and safety for all its employees and any other persons who could be affected by its operations.
During 2004 we focused particularly on the health and safety of delegates attending our conferences and this included the development of on-line assessment tools for staff to use.
Our overall approach is managed through the Executive Health & Safety Committee and there is a network of health and safety representatives within the Group.
Community The Group respects the traditions and cultures of each country in which it operates.
The Group supports a number of charities and schemes, such as the Give As You Earn Scheme, which allows UK employees to make tax efficient charitable donations direct from the payroll.
In 2004 the Group gave nearly 25,000 in charitable donations.
In addition, since 2002 UK employees of the Group have helped to raise funds for various UK-based childrens charities through participation in an annual fun run, led by Mr P Rigby, Chief Executive.
In 2004 the event raised some 47,000 for charity and more than 77,000 has been raised since its inception.
24 T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Environment Although the media sector is generally regarded as having a low environmental footprint compared to other industries, management recognises that the Groups businesses do have a direct impact on the environment through its products and the resulting supply chain e. g. paper use and print and production technologies.
We work with printers to use water-based biodegradable inks and with paper suppliers to use acid-free paper and paper certified by The Forest Stewardship Council wherever possible.
We are also continually seeking to reduce paper consumption through increased electronic publishing, including the conversion of backlist titles to electronic format.
We are also increasingly providing distance learning courses which reduce the need to travel while widening accessibility to our products.
There are a number of recycling initiatives within the organisation, currently centred mainly around paper and toner cartridge recycling.
We are planning to review our business operational use of energy and its waste generation levels during 2005, with the objective of improving procedures to reduce energy consumption and source renewable energy where possible.
UK-based employees are encouraged to use public transportation through interest-free season ticket loans.
Our Marketplace Editorial independence is a central part of the Groups publishing business and editorial and commercial decisions are kept separate.
Editorial policies are used to ensure the integrity of our products and staff are made aware of these policies through training and on-line access to them.
The Groups relationship with its suppliers and other business partners is important to its success and we seek to be fair and honest in our dealings.
The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on its computer systems and staff are trained on data protection policies.
T&F Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 25
