24 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 Corporate governance COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, and, in the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied with the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the the Code requirements as they apply for the year ended system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
31 December 2004 with the exception only of the item highlighted To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the in this report.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project is being conducted to As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are listed on identify, evaluate and test critical internal financial controls across the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject all our business units.
This should enable representations to be to the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of made regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
A statement when the Group is required to report in compliance with these outlining the differences between the Companys corporate US obligations.
governance practices and those followed by US companies may With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors against every risk to the fullest extent.
The insurance market as required by the SEC.
remains difficult both as to breadth and cost of coverage and in The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated magnitude of the risks involved.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Executive Board and Committee structure operates as set out below.
Committees have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: THE BOARD strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of The Boards current composition of the non-executive Chairman, Group and regional strategic reviews: four executive and five non-executive directors meets the financial performance, within a comprehensive financial requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, planning and accounting framework: excluding the Chairman, to be independent non-executive directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current non-executive capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and directors satisfy the tests set out in the Code for independence.
authorisation processes: and risk management, through an ongoing process, which has been The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic in place up to the date of the accounts providing assurance direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore through reports from both the Head of Risk Management and approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
the Head of Internal Audit that the significant risks faced by the It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, of past investments and maintains an overview and control of having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and In addition, the Audit Committee receives: compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary financial and reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work carried human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
out under the annual internal audit plan, including an annual The Board has established a schedule of matters which are report on the operation of the monitoring processes set out reserved for its attention and decision.
above to support the Boards annual statement on internal The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of control: and directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive reports from the external auditor.
have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2004, refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and taking account of any material developments which have taken regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the place since the year end.
Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system of structured way.
internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 25 Seven regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and Directors biographical details are set out on page 27 of the further meetings are held as needed.
Seven Board meetings were Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004.
These were attended by all directors with the include their main commitments outside the Company.
exception that Ralph Kugler and Sir Howard Stringer could not The IHG PLC director appointed during the year David Kappler attend one meeting each.
Despite being unable to attend a has participated in an induction programme designed to meet his meeting, these directors were provided with all the papers and individual needs and to introduce him to, and familiarise him with, information relating to the meeting and were able to discuss the principal activities of the Group and with central and regional matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
A comprehensive induction programme has All directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in also been designed for Andrew Cosslett, the newly appointed advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
These induction programmes accord with the Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by guidelines referred to in the Combined Code.
The updating of regular business presentations outside Board meetings and visits all directors skills and knowledge is a progressive exercise.
At least one Board meeting a year is held overseas.
This is accomplished at Board and strategy meetings, through presentations and visits to the Companys hotels and other business A formal performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees premises, and through contact with employees at all levels.
and directors was undertaken by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director shortly after the year end.
The Andrew Cosslett and David Kappler, having been appointed as evaluation was conducted in accordance with the suggestions directors since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and stand for good practice contained in the Higgs Report, and by way for appointment at the Annual General Meeting on 1 June 2005. of private discussions with each director, having regard to In addition, Robert C Larson, having attained the age of 70, will the potential for performance improvement.
The Chairmans retire and stand for reappointment.
Special notice has been duly performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director, given to the Company in connection with the resolution to this taking account of the views of all the other directors.
Feedback effect that will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting.
was provided to the Board through a formal report.
The evaluation Richard Hartman, Ralph Kugler and Richard Solomons will also concluded that the range of experience and skills of the current retire by rotation and stand for reappointment at the Annual directors provides a sound basis for an effective and unified General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting provides Board.
All the main Committees are ably led by their respective further information about the directors standing for appointment Chairmen and all have addressed the issues and business and reappointment.
Details of the executive directors service matters requiring their attention and decisions during the year, contracts are set out on page 32.
The non-executive Chairman diligently and robustly.
The conclusion was that all individual and the five independent non-executive directors have letters directors continue to perform effectively.
Attention will be given to of appointment.
any matters arising from the evaluation process.
It is intended that a comprehensive evaluation will take place annually.
CHAIRMAN David Webster was non-executive Chairman throughout the The following were directors of the Company during the year: year.
He retired as a director and Chairman of Safeway plc Date of original on 8 March 2004.
He assumed the additional role of interim Position appointment Chief Executive following the Companys announcement that David Webster Non-executive Chairman 15.4.
03 Richard North was to step down as a director and as Chief Executive Richard North Chief Executive 10.2.
For the remainder of 2004, the Richard Solomons Finance Director 10.2.
03 roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were not fulfilled by separate individuals, as required by the Combined Code.
However, this Richard Hartman Managing Director, 15.4.
03 was a temporary situation and David Webster stood down as Europe, Middle East & Africa interim Chief Executive on the appointment of Andrew Cosslett as Stevan Porter President, the Americas 15.4.
03 Chief Executive with effect from 3 February 2005.
David Webster David Kappler Non-executive director and was appointed non-executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited Senior Independent Director 21.6.
The Board is satisfied that this will have Ralph Kugler Non-executive director 15.4.
03 no adverse impact on the successful fulfilment of his commitment to the Company.
03 Sir Howard Stringer Non-executive director 15.4.
On 3 February 2005, Andrew Cosslett was appointed as Chief Executive of the Company.
26 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 Corporate governance The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient meeting.
This is unavoidable from time to time, particularly given operation of the Board and its Committees, for seeing that the other corporate and international responsibilities of the very corporate governance matters are addressed, and for experienced individuals concerned.
They also spend significant representing the Company externally and communicating time outside these formal meetings on the Companys business, particularly with shareholders.
He also ensures that directors reviewing proposals and projects, and generally overseeing its receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company and affairs.
Any such occasional non-attendance is exceptional and its businesses and that all directors are fully informed of relevant the Board is satisfied that all directors remain committed to their matters, working closely with the Chief Executive and the roles and responsibilities.
The Chairman also meets regularly with the non-executive directors, without executive directors present.
COMPANY SECRETARY All directors have access to the advice and services of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE Company Secretary, Richard Winter.
His responsibilities include Andrew Cosslett was appointed Chief Executive on 3 February 2005. ensuring good information flows to the Board and its Committees He has responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
He is responsible for the He facilitates the induction of directors, the regular updating and executive management of the Group.
refreshing of their skills and knowledge, and he assists them in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance David Prosser was the Companys Senior Independent Director and generally for keeping the Board up to date on all legal, until the appointment of David Kappler as a non-executive director regulatory and other developments.
The Company Secretary acts on 21 June 2004.
David Kappler is now the Companys Senior as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues to raise.
He meets at COMMITTEES least annually with non-executive and executive directors, without Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which the Chairman present, to review the performance of the Chairman.
have been approved by the Board.
Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive.
It consists of the executive directors and senior The Companys team of experienced independent non-executive executives from the Group and the regions and usually meets directors represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
Following the resignation of Richard North as a director There are five such directors, in addition to the non-executive and as Chief Executive on 30 September 2004, David Webster Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial chaired the Executive Committee for the remainder of the year.
The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, Andrew Cosslett now chairs the Committee.
Its role is to consider met frequently during the year to discuss the Companys business and manage a range of important strategic and business issues and management.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance In the Boards view, David Prosser meets the criteria for of the regional Hotels businesses and the Britvic business and is independence as set out in the Combined Code, notwithstanding authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within his role as Group Chief Executive of Legal & General Group Plc, levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to the a major shareholder in the Company.
The Combined Code requires Board the most significant investment proposals.
During 2004, a that, for independence, an individual should be independent detailed senior management succession planning exercise was in character and judgement and free from any business or other undertaken by the Executive Committee.
It is intended to conduct relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of such formal exercises regularly.
David Prossers appointment was Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler not linked in any way to Legal & Generals share interest and he who has significant recent and relevant financial experience and does not take part in decision-making by that company on is the Committees financial expert.
He took over the role of specific investments.
Chairman of the Committee following his appointment to the Non-executive directors have the opportunity of continuing Board and as Senior Independent Director on 21 June 2004. professional development during the year and of gaining further In accordance with the Combined Code, David Webster stood insight into the Companys business.
During 2004, visits to down as Chairman and member of the Audit Committee as soon as operating premises including hotels across the brand portfolio David Kappler was appointed.
All other members were appointed were undertaken.
In addition, the training requirements of the to the Committee on their original appointment as directors in 2003. non-executive directors were reviewed during the year and will During 2004, the Committee consisted of all the non-executive be kept under review.
directors, excluding the Chairman of the Company, and is scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
The Committee met five times There have been occasions when individual non-executive in the year.
Messrs Kugler and Larson and Sir Howard Stringer directors have been unable to attend a Board or Committee were unable to attend one meeting each.
The Audit Committees role is described on page 28.
InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 27 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS by David Prosser, consists of all the non-executive directors, The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its excluding the Chairman of the Company, and meets at least three half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive times a year.
Its role is described on page 29.
The Committee met and the Finance Director give presentations on these results to six times during the year.
Messrs Kugler and Larson and institutional investors, analysts and the media.
In addition, there Sir Howard Stringer were unable to attend one meeting each.
are telephone conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results and the data used in these presentations and Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees quorum conferences is placed on the website www.
com comprises any three non-executive directors although, where possible, all non-executive directors are present.
It is chaired The Company also has a programme of meetings throughout the by the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference reflect year with its major institutional shareholders, which provides an the principal duties of a Nomination Committee proposed as good opportunity to discuss, using publicly available information, the practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
The Committee is progress of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other candidates for appointment to the Board, and also for succession non-executive directors are available to meet with major planning.
The Committee generally engages external consultants shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to to advise on candidates for Board appointments, and did so in discuss governance and strategy.
Any new director is available connection with the appointments of Messrs Cosslett and Kappler.
for meetings with major shareholders as a matter of course.
Candidate profiles and objective selection criteria were prepared Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful in advance of these engagements.
The Committee also assists the interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also Board in identifying and developing the role of the Senior customers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Independent Director.
The Committee met formally five times Nomination Committees are available at those meetings to answer during the year.
Robert C Larson was unable to attend one questions.
The availability to shareholders of information about the meeting.
Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend two meetings.
Group is maintained through the website.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired by A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the the Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the Company Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and Secretary and other senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations and the Finance Director, and to the Audit Committee.
include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, FURTHER INFORMATION fairly represent the Groups position in all material respects.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee and Disclosure Committees are available on the Companys comprises any two executive directors or any one executive website www.
com or from the Company Secretarys office director together with a senior officer from an agreed and on request.
The terms and conditions of appointment of restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by a non-executive directors are also available on request.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The proposals for reappointments at the 2005 Annual General Meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders with this Report.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
