CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WE ARE COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND IN THIS SECTION SET OUT HOW WE COMPLY WITH THE PRINCIPLES IN THE NEW COMBINED CODE, AND EXPLAIN OUR REASONS FOR ANY AREAS OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
38 Milford, Massachusetts three Non-Executive Directors the first AGM after their appointment.
The Board Tony Isaac, Jack Taylor and Adri Baan.
Arrangements are in place to ensure The full Board met 13 times during Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent that newly appointed Directors receive a 2004 this included additional meetings, Non-Executive Director.
The three comprehensive briefing on the Company, specifically to review the EME portfolio Non-Executive Directors are considered and training is provided for Directors on acquisition.
Tony Isaac, Tony Concannon to be independent.
On 1 October 2004 their roles and their legal obligations to and Jack Taylor were each unable to Struan Robertson joined the Board as a ensure that they are fully conversant attend one of these meetings.
He is considered with their responsibilities as Directors.
Directors were in attendance on the to be independent.
In accordance with this policy Struan relevant meeting dates.
A meeting of Robertson visited Rugeley power station the Chairman and the Non-Executive In 2004 the effectiveness of the shortly after his appointment and he Directors was held without the Executive Board was underpinned by a balance met with each of the functional heads Directors being present.
The Non-Executive between Executive and Non-Executive who are members of the Companys Directors also met without the Chairman Directors.
The Board believes that it has management team.
The newly appointed being present.
This meeting was chaired the skills and experience necessary to Executive Directors attended a two-day by Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent provide effective leadership and control course on their role and responsibilities as Non-Executive Director, and included a of the Company.
Directors shortly after their appointment.
review of the Chairmans performance.
In accordance with the Combined From 1 January to 30 September 2004, Code and the Companys Articles of the Board comprised the Chairman Association, all Directors submit Sir Neville Simms : four Executive themselves for re-election every three Directors Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, years and newly appointed Directors are Tony Concannon and Steve Riley and subject to election by shareholders at 39 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 A programme of continuous training is Company Secretary as a group and by provided for the Directors.
Periodically the Non-Executive Directors with the the Board meets at the site of one of Chairman and the Company Secretary the Groups assets and briefings are also as a separate group.
The results of the given at Board meetings on particular discussions were then evaluated by the parts of the business, including regional Board as a whole.
Overall this evaluation and functional reviews.
Directors are confirmed that the Directors considered also kept informed of changes to the that the Board and its Committees regulatory regime such as the revised worked effectively.
As part of the review Combined Code, new institutional investor the Board agreed to increase the number guidelines and the US Sarbanes-Oxley of Remuneration Committee meetings Act.
All of the Directors have access to for 2005.
The contribution by individual the advice and services of the Company Directors to Board and Committee Secretary and also to external independent meetings was considered to be high.
advice should they so wish.
Chairman and Chief The Company has in place appropriate Marmara, Turkey Executive Officer insurance cover in respect of legal There is a clear division of responsibilities action against its Directors.
at the head of the Company between the roles of the Chairman and the CEO.
Operation of the Board The Chairman is responsible for the The Board has responsibility for leadership and effective operation of the defining strategy, ensuring the successful Board, in terms of its agenda, decision implementation of approved projects making and the utilisation of the skills proposals and for the financial policies of and experience of the Directors.
It also reviews the risk policies monitors, with the assistance of the and profile of the Group.
It maintains a Company Secretary, the information schedule of all matters requiring specific provided to the Board to ensure that it Board approval.
Throughout 2004 this is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
included all strategy decisions and The Chairman is also responsible for significant capital investment proposals ensuring that there is effective engagement and acquisitions.
The Board receives and communication with shareholders.
information on capital expenditure projects The CEO is responsible for the running of and investment proposals in advance of the Company, and leading the executive Board meetings, as well as management and operational teams in implementing reports on the operational and financial the strategies approved by the Board.
Financial performance is monitored on a monthly In addition to his role as Chairman of the basis and the overall performance of the Company, Sir Neville Simms was during Group is reviewed against approved 2004 Chairman of Carillion plc.
At least once a year, the CEO Board believes this does not compromise presents a corporate strategy plan to his role as Chairman of the Company.
the Board for review and approval.
Philip Cox is also a Non-Executive Director Each investment decision is made of Wincanton plc.
His remuneration in the context of this plan.
from this role is retained by him.
The Board has established business His remuneration for the year ended values and standards for the Company, 31 March 2004 was 28,000. which provide a framework for the Company to balance the interests of Non-Executive Directors all its stakeholders in the conduct of its and their function business.
The business values FIRST Through membership of the Board are set out at the front of this annual Committees, the Non-Executive Directors report.
The Companys Code of Business have responsibilities for ensuring that Conduct has been formally adopted systems of internal control and risk by the Board and is set out on the management are appropriate and Companys website.
This code includes effective: managing the relationship with a whistle blowing procedure.
the external auditors: evaluating the performance of management in meeting In respect of Board performance for 2004, targets and objectives: setting the a questionnaire on Board performance remuneration of Executive Directors: was circulated to each Director and appointing Executive Directors: and was initially discussed by the Executive planning senior management succession.
Directors with the Chairman and the 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee Board Committees The Remuneration Committee is The Company has established the responsible for monitoring the following committees: the Audit performance of the Executive Directors Committee, the Remuneration of the Company against targets, and Committee and the Appointments making recommendations to the Committee.
No person other than the Board on remuneration.
Committee members is entitled to attend the meetings of these committees, except The Committee comprises all of the at the invitation of the Committee.
independent Non-Executive Directors The full terms of reference for each of the Company and the Chairman.
Committee are available on the The Chairman of the Committee is Companys website: www.
The head of human resources at International Power acts as secretary Audit Committee to the Committee.
During 2004 the The Committee selects and fixes the Remuneration Committee met on two remuneration of the external auditors occasions.
Sir Neville Simms, Adri Baan and reviews the effectiveness of the and Jack Taylor attended each of these external audit process.
The Committee meetings whilst Tony Isaac and Struan also ensures policies and procedures are Robertson both attended one meeting.
in place to ensure that the external auditors remain independent.
In addition Appointments Committee to reviewing the Groups accounts, results The Appointments Committee is announcements, risk management and responsible for matters of management accounting policies, the Committee succession and the identification and monitors the effectiveness of internal appointment of Directors.
The Committee control systems for the Board.
The Hazelwood, Australia is comprised of the Chairman and all Committee monitors the work of the of the independent Non-Executive internal audit function and its progress Directors of the Company.
The Chairman against the Groups annual internal audit of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms.
plan, and also reviews reports from The head of human resources also acts the external auditors.
as secretary to the Committee.
During 2004, the Committee met on one The Audit Committee is comprised of all occasion.
Sir Neville Simms, Adri Baan, the independent Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac and Jack Taylor attended of the Company and the Chairman.
Audit Committee Chairman is Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute When reviewing candidates for the of Management Accountants and, before appointment of the new Non-Executive becoming Chief Executive of The BOC Director, the Appointments Committee Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
prepared a description of the role and The Company Secretary acts as secretary capabilities required for the appointment to the Committee.
During 2004 the and instructed Spencer Stuart, external Audit Committee met on six occasions, search consultants.
The appointment of Tony Isaac attended each of these Struan Robertson was made following meetings, Sir Neville Simms attended five full evaluation of available and suitable of these meetings, Adri Baan and Jack candidates, after taking into account Taylor attended four meetings each and their past experience, their personal Struan Robertson attended two meetings.
achievements and other factors such as their knowledge and experience of Time is set aside for the Committee the energy industry and the business to meet the external auditors without environment of International Power.
executive management present and these sessions have been extended to include the Groups head of internal audit.
In addition to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings included representatives of the external auditors, the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer CFO, other Executive Directors, the head of financial reporting and the head of internal audit.
41 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All results presentations and stock Any system of internal control is designed Relations with shareholders exchange announcements are available to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk The Board is accountable to shareholders to shareholders on the Companys of failure to achieve business objectives.
for the performance and activities of the website www.
The system can only provide reasonable, Group.
International Power ensures that and not absolute, assurance against its AGM provides shareholders with an Accountability and audit material financial misstatement or loss.
opportunity to receive comprehensive The principal features of the Groups The Board is mindful of its responsibility information on all aspects of the Groups systems of internal control are: to present a balanced and understandable business activities and to question senior assessment of International Powers management about business issues Control environment financial position and prospects, both and prospects.
The Board encourages a culture of to investors and regulatory authorities.
The Company All proxy votes are counted and the level The annual report, preliminary, interim has an organisation structure with clear of proxy votes lodged for each resolution and quarterly results announcements lines of accountability and authority is reported at the AGM.
In line with best are the principal means of achieving across its worldwide operations, practice, the Company aims to ensure this objective.
supported by appropriate reporting that the notice of AGM and the annual An explanation of the respective procedures.
Each of the regional report are sent to shareholders at least responsibilities of the Directors and businesses is accountable to the CEO 20 working days before the AGM.
external auditors in connection with the and is managed within the strategic International Power also runs, within financial statements is set out on page 69. guidelines and delegated authorities the terms of the regulatory framework, The Directors confirm on page 68 their adopted by the Board.
An executive frequent contact programmes with view that the Group is a going concern.
management team chaired by the CEO industry analysts and institutional and comprising the Executive Directors, The Audit Committee approves all investors to discuss matters of strategy regional directors and functional heads non-audit services provided by the and financial performance.
Contact is meets regularly to discuss issues external auditor to ensure that the made principally by the CEO and the facing the Group.
objectivity and independence of the CFO.
On issues of major importance external auditor is not compromised.
Control procedures the Chairman communicates with major In line with the requirements of the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Control procedures have been Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our procedures Non-Executive Director Tony Isaac is established in each of the Companys specify the services from which the also available as an alternative point of operations to safeguard the Groups external auditor is excluded and the contact if shareholders have concerns assets from loss or misuse and to ensure approval process for all other services.
over the Chairmans performance or appropriate authorisation and recording where contact with the Chairman would of financial transactions.
All acquisition Internal control be inappropriate.
At each Board meeting and investment decisions are subject to an update is given on movements in disciplined investment appraisal processes.
The Board has responsibility for the major shareholdings and on contact Groups system of internal control Risk management procedures are in place programmes between the Executive for the Companys operations, including and for monitoring and reviewing Directors and institutional shareholders.
its energy marketing and trading Reports issued by financial analysts on activities, which are overseen by the Systems are in place to meet the the Company are circulated to Board Global Commodities Risk Committee, requirements of the Combined Code members.
These summaries and which comprises executive and senior and Turnbull Guidance and procedures reports enable the Directors to gain an management, and is chaired by the global and systems are being implemented to understanding of the views and opinions risk manager.
The Group treasury function ensure compliance with the requirements of those with an interest in the Company.
operates under defined policies and the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
oversight of the Treasury Committee, chaired by the CFO.
THE BOARD ENCOURAGES A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY AND OPENNESS.
THE COMPANY HAS AN ORGANISATION STRUCTURE WITH CLEAR LINES OF ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUTHORITY ACROSS ITS WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS 43 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Performance reporting and information quantified.
During the year, significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted Corporate plan: Executive management through the business performance reports.
submits an annual corporate plan to the The principal risks are reviewed by the Board for approval.
The plan for each Risk Committee, which provides reports business unit is the quantified assessment to the Board and the Audit Committee.
of its planned operating and financial performance for the next financial year, Energy marketing and trading together with strategic reviews for the The objective of the Groups energy following four years.
Group management marketing and trading operations is to reviews the plans with each operational maximise the return from the purchase of team.
The individual plans are based on fuel and the sale of the associated output.
key economic and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk For each of the businesses that operate and sensitivities underlying the projections.
in merchant energy markets, local risk committees have been established to Performance monitoring: Monthly oversee the management of the market, performance and financial reports are Hays, Texas operational and credit risks arising from produced for each business unit, with the marketing and trading activities.
Reports are committees are made up of the trading consolidated for overall review by manager, global and local risk managers, executive management, together with Directors and senior managers.
forecasts for the profit and loss account and cash flow.
Detailed reports are The Group hedges its physical generating capacity by selling forward its electrical presented to the Board on a regular basis.
output, and purchasing its fuel input, as Performance review: Each business and when commercially appropriate and unit is subject to performance reviews within approved control limits.
This is with Group management regularly during accomplished through a range of financial the year.
Actual results and forecasts and physical products.
Our limited for the year are compared to budget.
proprietary trading operations use Key operational and financial results are similar methods.
reviewed together with the risk profile and business environment of the Energy market risk on our asset and reporting unit.
proprietary portfolios is measured using various techniques including Value-at-Risk Investment projects: These are VaR.
VaR is used where appropriate and subject to formal review and authorisation provides a fair estimate of the net losses procedures with designated levels of or gains which could be recognised on authority, including a review by an our portfolios over a certain period and investment appraisal committee chaired given a certain probability: it does not by the CEO and comprising the Executive provide an indication of actual results.
Major Scenario analyses are used to estimate projects are subject to Board review the economic impact of sudden market and approval.
movements on the value of our Risk identification and management portfolios.
This supplements the other techniques and methodologies and There is a continuous process for captures additional market risks.
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company.
Monitoring Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk The Board reviews the effectiveness Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, of established internal controls through and has responsibility, on behalf of the the Audit Committee which receives Board, for ensuring the adequacy of reports from management, the Risk systems for identifying and assessing Committee, the Groups internal audit significant risks, that appropriate control function and the external auditors on systems and other mitigating actions are the systems of internal control and risk in place, and that residual exposures are management arrangements.
consistent with the Companys strategy and objectives.
Assessments are Internal audit reviews the effectiveness conducted for all material entities.
of internal controls and risk management through a work programme which is As part of the annual business planning based on the Companys objectives and process, the key risks associated with risk profile and is agreed with the Audit achievement of the business principal Committee.
Findings are reported to objectives are identified and their impact 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE operational and executive management, and the importance of the Audit The Committee makes recommendations with periodic reporting to the Committee in reviewing the financial to the CEO, the CFO and the executive Audit Committee.
statements and the internal controls of management on the adequacy of the Company, the Board considered it processes to permit the signing of Business unit managers provide annual appropriate for the Chairman to sit on certifications required by the Act.
The self-certification statements of compliance each of the Remuneration Committee Committee also reviews the Groups with procedures.
These statements give and the Audit Committee.
compliance with the requirements of assurance that controls are in operation the Act.
and confirm that programmes are in The Senior Independent Director did place to address any weaknesses in internal not have any direct communication In November 2003, the SEC approved control.
The certification process embraces with institutional investors, primarily changes to listing standards of the New all areas of material risk.
Internal audit to avoid potential confusion over York Stock Exchange NYSE related to reviews the statements and reports any channels of communication.
To date, the corporate governance practices of significant issues to the Audit Committee.
no institutional shareholder has listed companies.
Under these rules, requested such communication.
listed foreign private issuers, such as Compliance with the International Power, must disclose any In all other respects, the Company Combined Code significant ways in which their corporate has complied with the provisions of governance practices differ from those There were three areas where the the Combined Code throughout the followed by US domestic companies Board was not fully compliant with the period of the review.
under the NYSE listing standards.
requirements of the revised Combined There are no significant differences Code throughout 2004.
Until 1 October US corporate governance in the corporate governance practices 2004 there was a majority of Executive compliance undertaken by International Power Directors over the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company has securities registered as compared to those followed by US This was due to the appointment of two in the US and, as a result, it is required domestic companies under the NYSE new Executive Directors on 1 January to comply with those provisions of the standards.
Under the terms of the NYSE 2004.
At that time the Board considered Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as rules, Sir Neville Simms is deemed to it appropriate to strengthen the base of it applies to foreign private issuers.
The be an independent Director as all the the executive team.
In response to these Board continues to monitor the new rules payments he receives from the Company appointments the Board sought the arising from the Act and arrangements are in respect of Directors fees and appointment of an additional independent are also being developed to ensure that therefore his membership of the Non-Executive Director and appointed the Company will be able to report on its Audit and Remuneration Committees Struan Robertson to the Board on systems of internal controls over financial is in accordance with the requirements 1 October 2004. reporting as required for the year ending of the NYSE corporate governance Throughout 2004, the Chairman of the 31 December 2006. rules.
The terms of reference of the Board, Sir Neville Simms, was a member Appointments Committee only relate As recommended by the US Securities of both the Audit and Remuneration to succession issues rather than corporate and Exchange Commission SEC, the Committees.
The Chairman of each of governance principles, which are currently Company has established a Disclosure these committees is an independent reserved to the Board as a whole.
Committee comprising the Company Non-Executive Director and there are at Secretary, the head of internal audit least two other independent Non-Executive and representatives of the investor Directors as members of each of the relations, finance and company secretariat committees.
Therefore Sir Neville Simms departments.
The Committee meets was not in a position to exert any control regularly and is responsible for performing over the affairs of the respective an oversight and advisory role in the committees.
Due to Sir Neville Simms disclosure process for the content and role in communicating with institutional form of the annual report and Form 20-F. shareholders on remuneration matters THE COMPANY HAS SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE US AND, AS A RESULT, IT IS REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH THOSE PROVISIONS OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 2002 AS IT APPLIES TO FOREIGN PRIVATE ISSUERS 45
