Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2004 The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining high standards of In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has delegated corporate governance throughout the Group and to integrity and high certain of its powers to Board committees, details of which are set out ethical standards in all its business dealings.
From time to time the Board also establishes specific committees with defined terms of reference to deal with a specific issue The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Financial which the Board has approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of Services Authority which require the Company, amongst other things, to a business.
make a statement on whether it has complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising the executive Corporate Governance, published by the Financial Reporting Council in July directors, the senior executives Mr S Maroli, Mr S Dance, Mr B Melizan and 2003 the Combined Code.
The Company must also provide an explanation the Company Secretary.
of how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code to enable its shareholders to evaluate how the principles have been The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year, excepting August, applied.
Where the Company has not complied with the Combined Code and on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
The provisions it must specify which it has not complied with and where Board met 13 times during the 2004 financial year.
Attendance at Board and relevant for what part of the accounting period such non-compliance committee meetings by individual directors during the year is set out in the continued, giving reasons for any non-compliance.
1 1 1 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive The directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period ended Number of meetings 13 4 12 1 11 31 December 2004 with the following minor exceptions: 2 G P Balfour 13 4 12 1 M C Bottjer 13 1 for the period 1 January until 10 June when the Board comprised five S B Hagerty 13 11 executive and four non-executive directors whilst undergoing 3 A R Hannah 65 re-structuring.
T C Jones 13 11 Mr Hannahs service agreement contained a notice period in excess of N F Keegan 13 4 12 1 2 12 months.
As it was unable to change this unilaterally the Company J M F Padovan 12 4 10 1 gave Mr Hannah two years notice of termination of his service A M Ringrose 13 11 agreement on 27 June 2003.
D A Trapnell 13 4 12 1 J H Vyse 13 11 A review of the Groups whistleblowing procedures was undertaken by the Board as a whole, as opposed to the Audit Committee, at the 1 Discloses attendance by committee members only.
2 Mr Padovan was Chairman for one meeting.
Mr Balfour has been Chairman for the remainder of the year.
3 Mr Hannah left the Board on 10 June 2004.
Governance and strategy was discussed by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director during their meetings with major shareholders.
The Group Chairman held two meetings with the non-executive directors during the course of the year, without the executive directors being Directors present.
The non-executive directors also met once during the year, under The Board the chairmanship of Mr Padovan, without either the Group Chairman or the The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and core values executive directors being present.
including: the creation, acquisition or disposal of corporate entities or the disposal of material assets: financial reporting: approval of annual budgets The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and officers and major capital expenditure projects: the Groups finance, banking and insurance in respect of legal actions against the directors.
The insurance capital arrangements: Stock Exchange Listing Rule Companies Act matters: does not provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or material contracts and contracts otherwise than in the normal course of dishonestly.
business of the Company and its subsidiaries: matters which could affect the Groups reputation: employee issues and key appointments: risk Chairman and Chief Executive management strategy including internal controls and Group insurances: The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split and clearly health and safety: defence and settlement of material litigation: and social, defined.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board environmental and ethical matters.
It also has oversight of the Groups and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director operations.
These responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is reserved for the approval of the Board.
responsible for running the Groups business.
28 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets the agenda Companys registered office during normal business hours and for at least for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also ensures that Board members, 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Each especially the non-executive directors, receive timely information and are letter of appointment specifies the anticipated level of time commitment briefed on issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an including, where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from effective contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible for involvement with the Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees.
disseminating Board papers, which are normally circulated in advance of Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required to confirm, each meeting, presenting certain papers to the Board and its committees, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of advising on Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
them and to seek the Committee Chairmans agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman the Deputy Chairmans agreement, before accepting Board balance and independence additional commitments that might impact upon the time they are able to The Board, which operates as a single team, comprises four executive devote to their role as a non-executive director of the Company.
directors, four non-executive directors and the Group Chairman.
The individual directors have different skills, experience and qualifications with Information and professional development certain of their number presently or previously working in other sectors of The Board papers include information from management on financial, the economy, and are able to bring independent judgement to bear on business and corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed matters for consideration by the Board.
on issues to be considered at Board meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a proposal formulated by The Board considers each non-executive director to be independent, on the the executive directors and circulated, together with supporting basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and information, as part of the Board papers.
generally, and free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Furthermore, the The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results, cash Board considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient calibre and flows and projections to the Board on a monthly basis.
These are compared number that their views may be expected to be of sufficient weight that no with budgets approved by the Board prior to the commencement of each individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision-making financial year.
The financial summaries are accompanied by a written report processes.
explaining operating and financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from the agreed budgets and other information that may be Mr Padovan, as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, is relevant from time to time.
Monthly written reports on the performance of available to shareholders should they have any concerns which contact each division are provided as part of the Board papers, and those members through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may of the Executive Committee who are not Board directors attend the relevant be inappropriate.
part of each Board meeting to present their report and respond to any matters concerning their division raised by the Board.
They also attend the Appointments to the Board relevant part of the Board meeting at which the annual budget and plans Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination are presented for approval.
Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, who is chairman of the Committee, the Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive and all the The Board also receives monthly reports from the Group Health, Safety and non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Environmental Manager covering the Groups health and safety Committee.
The Committee has its own terms of reference which deal performance and an annual presentation covering both performance during clearly with its authority and duties, and which are available on the the past year and targets for the forthcoming year.
The Board also receives Companys website at www.
quarterly written reports from the Group Insurance Manager and Group General Counsel covering any matters of significance.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider and review the structure, size, composition and balance of skills, knowledge and experience On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme given of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to any by the Company Secretary during which they receive information about the changes.
The Committee is responsible for the supervision of the Company, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, recruitment process of potential Board appointees, considering any the terms of reference and membership of the Board and its committees, the candidates who are put forward by the directors and external consultants powers delegated to those committees, the Companys corporate and recommending to the Board the appointment of all directors after governance practices and procedures, including the power reserved to the having interviewed short-listed candidates.
It is also responsible for making Groups most senior executives, and the latest financial information.
recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any director retiring by rotation.
As part of an ongoing process of familiarisation with the business, the nonexecutive directors have visited a project being undertaken by each of the The terms and conditions of appointment of all the non-executive directors divisions.
The Company Secretary also keeps the directors informed of and those of the Group Chairman are available for inspection at the appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses and makes the Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 29 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 necessary arrangements for their attendance.
All the non-executive Remuneration directors have attended one or more briefings or seminars relevant to their The level and make-up of remuneration role during the year under review.
The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of independent nonexecutive directors, is chaired by Mr Balfour.
The names of the Committee Throughout their period in office the directors are updated on the members are set out in the table on page 28.
The responsibilities of the Companys business and the competitive and regulatory environments in Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors which it operates.
remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 41.
Directors may, after consultation with the Deputy Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys Accountability and audit expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
All directors Financial reporting have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the appointment or removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board Companys position and prospects.
It uses the Chairmans statement, the or any duly delegated committee thereof.
detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Companys operations included in the Chief Executives review, the Finance Performance evaluation Directors report, and the Directors report to assist with this.
During 2004 the performance of the directors was appraised by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive and in the case of the Chief Executive by The directors responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements the Group Chairman and the Deputy Chairman, with feedback being and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are provided as appropriate.
The Group Chairmans performance was appraised described on pages 42 and 43, respectively, of this Report and Accounts.
during the annual meeting of the non-executive directors at which the Group Chairman was not present.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, including risk The Board met informally for a day away from the boardroom during which, management, and sets appropriate policies having regard to the objectives amongst other things, it carried out an evaluation of its own performance of the Group.
and that of its committees and a review of Board procedures.
As a result of this review certain procedures have been amended and a General Purposes The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification and evaluation Committee constituted.
for consideration by the Board of risks faced by the Group and for designing, operating and monitoring a suitable system of internal control The Audit Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference and embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
effectiveness for the year under review.
The principal features of the system of internal control are: Re-election All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be An established management structure comprising the Board with its elected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment, if various committees and an Executive Committee.
The Executive appointed by the Board.
Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and Committee is responsible for the operational management and delivery may offer themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not more against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing resolutions of than three years.
the Board, formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for consideration by the Board and devising and implementing suitable The Board typically expects non-executive directors to serve two three-year policies and procedures for health and safety, environmental, social terms, although a non-executive director may be invited to serve one and ethical, treasury, human resources and information technology.
Should this be the case the non-executive The Board receives comprehensive monthly reports against that budget.
director concerned would be expected to retire annually and offer himself Each division prepares monthly trading reports excepting January with for re-election.
a comparison against budget or forecast, together with certain key performance indicators.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a Biographical details of all the directors, including those subject to whole and determines appropriate action.
re-election, are set out on pages 6 and 7 of this Report and Accounts to All proposals for capital expenditure above 10,000 and below enable shareholders to take an informed decision on any re-election.
1 million are submitted for approval to the Executive Committee.
Larger value proposals and business acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
30 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 A PFI Committee, whose main areas of responsibility are to review, Code produced by the Turnbull Working Party and the Board has reviewed approve and authorise the execution and delivery of contractual the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period documentation for PFI projects where prior approval of the Board has under review.
been given to participation in a particular PFI project, and to report to the Board on its actions.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather A Risk Committee comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group Health, Safety and only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Environmental Manager, Group Insurance Manager, the Company misstatement or loss.
Secretary who is its secretary and a representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
The Risk Committee meets at least four Audit Committee and auditors times a year, has written terms of reference, and provides copies of its The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the integrity of the minutes to the Board.
financial reporting and audit process and to provide an independent A General Purposes Committee, with written terms of reference, which overview of risk management and internal control processes and make exercises certain powers of the Board delegated to it and reports upon recommendations to the Board.
In fulfilling this role the Committee oversees its actions to the Board.
relations with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and operating procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
These The Audit Committee, composed entirely of independent non-executive manuals set out the necessary levels of authorisation applicable for directors, is chaired by Mr Padovan.
The names of the Committee members different transactions.
are set out in the table on page 28.
They have all been members of the A risk management policy document comprising an introduction from Committee throughout 2004.
The Board is satisfied that both Mr Padovan the Group Chairman on behalf of the Board, the Boards own risk and Mr Keegan have recent and relevant financial experience.
Committee has written terms of reference, which deal clearly with its The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central authority and duties and which are available on the Companys website at management or control, which include health, safety and www.
environmental, legal, insurance, treasury and company secretarial.
These functions report to executive directors and operate within The Committee met four times during 2004, to include the key dates in the defined limits and levels of authority.
Companys reporting cycle, with the external and internal auditors present at three and four of the meetings respectively.
The Group Chairman, the An internal audit function whose responsibility is to provide an Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and objective appraisal to the Board of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit Manager attended the meetings by invitation.
The the processes established to control the business to assist the Board in Committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views of the external meeting its objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
auditors in private and both the external and internal auditors have the One or more members of the Executive Committee attends each of the opportunity to speak to the Committee in private at any time should they monthly divisional board meetings.
During the course of each year members of the Executive Committee or In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of the Companys other senior operational and financial management visit all trading financial reports to its shareholders, the Committee has evaluated whether companies, including those located overseas, to discuss and monitor they provide a true and fair view, reviewed the appropriateness and performance of those businesses.
consistency of application of accounting policies adopted in their preparation and assessed the basis of any major judgements and estimates.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The Committee also reviewed the audit findings, audit management letter risks faced by all companies within the Group has been in place for the and audit representation letter before signature on behalf of the Board.
period under review and until the date of approval of this Report and Accounts.
There is also an ongoing process to embed internal control and The Committee evaluated the external auditors performance, reviewed and risk management further into the operations of the businesses, also to deal approved the external auditors terms of engagement, the audit scope and with areas of improvement which are identified from time to time and to fees and made a recommendation to the Board as regards their derive the maximum benefit to the business through the use of risk re-appointment.
It also reviewed auditor independence and objectivity and management procedures.
the effectiveness of the audit process at the end of the audit cycle.
To assist it with monitoring the fee dependence of the auditors, as part of its review Internal controls are reviewed in September and March by the Board, which of auditor independence, the Committee has a policy for the award of accords with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 31 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 non-audit work to the auditors comprising a set of authority limits in Relations with shareholders relation to various categories of work.
After reviewing the actual fees for Dialogue with institutional shareholders non-audit work for the Group during 2004, the Committee concluded that The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional the nature and extent of non-audit fees did not compromise auditor and private investors.
The Chief Executive, accompanied in the majority of independence.
cases by the Group Finance Director, attended 65 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year ended 31 December 2004.
In The Committee monitored the role and effectiveness of the internal audit addition the Group Finance Director attended a further 15 meetings on function, in the context of the Company and the Groups overall risk his own.
management system and received periodic reports, against an annually agreed work plan, which included an assessment of managements responses The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to produce a note to the internal auditors findings and recommendations.
of the feedback from institutional investors which is reported to the next meeting of the Board.
All directors and the members of the Executive During the year the Board, rather than the Committee, reviewed the Committee also have, and indeed take, the opportunity to attend analyst arrangements for dealing, in confidence, with complaints from employees briefings.
about possible improprieties regarding financial reporting or any other matters Whistleblowing Policy and concluded that the arrangements Shareholders are also kept up-to-date with Company affairs through the were satisfactory.
In order to further raise awareness of the Whistleblowing Annual and Interim Reports, trading updates and, increasingly, the Policy and its application, an article was also included in the Groups Companys website.
in-house magazine, Focus, which is distributed to all employees.
Responsibility for reviewing the whistleblowing arrangements is now Constructive use of AGM delegated to the Committee.
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the AGM, at which all directors and committee chairmen are introduced and are The Committee has, during the 2004 financial year, reviewed its terms of available for questions.
reference as part of its annual review of its own effectiveness.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the work that it carries out, including any improvement actions required.
Copies of the minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
