Corporate governance 22 23 The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board consists of the Chairman five Treves, the Chief Executive and this report outlines where the Company has complied with Officer RC Nelson, two Executive Directors, two independent the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Non-Executive Directors and one other Non-Executive Director.
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, The Senior Independent Director is DP Allvey.
The Directors which applies to listed companies with a financial year ending on biographies appear in the Annual Review on pages 16 and 17. or after 1 November 2003 the Code.
During 2004, the Company has not complied with some of the provisions of the Code and Each Director will ensure that if he has any concerns which cannot the areas of non-compliance are described in this report.
The Board be resolved about the Company or a proposed action, that his is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate concern is recorded in the Board minutes.
Appropriate insurance governance and this statement describes how the relevant cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
principles of governance have been applied to the Company.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman THE BOARD and the Chief Executive Officer and they have been set out in An effective Board is in place, which provides entrepreneurial writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman met the leadership and controls the Group.
The Boards main roles are to independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment create value to shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the Board in May 2002. of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy available to enable them to meet those objectives.
The Board is and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring Group.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 14.
All involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Directors have a wide range of experience, bringing independent Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the Nonjudgement to bear in the interests of the Company on issues of Executive Directors, and constructive relations between Executive strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, and and Non-Executive Directors ensures Directors receive accurate, the Board has the appropriate wide range of skills, which is vital timely and clear information and effective communication with to the success of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for There were eight scheduled Board meetings held in 2004 and, the financial and operational performance of the Group.
outside of these, there was frequent contact between the Directors to discuss the Companys affairs and develop its business.
During The Board comprises a balance of Executive and Non-Executive 2004, all Directors were present at every Board meeting.
Also Directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the during the year, the Chairman held meetings with the Nondeliberations of the board.
The Non-Executive Directors fulfil a vital Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to to regular reporting to the Board and this enables the performance ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are of management to be reviewed and monitored by the Board.
fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best longA Board matrix is in place which formally outlines the matters term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take specifically requiring the consent of the full Board and includes, proper account of the interests of employees, customers and inter alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, suppliers.
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and the annual budget, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business Report and related announcements, major divestments and experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the of the Board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury and debated and that no one individual or group dominates the risk management policies.
The Board matrix also identifies areas where executive The Board considers DP Allvey and RE Sayers to be independent management can give approval subject to certain financial limits.
W Hauser is not considered to be Where any of the activities involve amounts greater than the independent under the provisions of the Code as he has a limits laid down for management approval they are referred consultancy agreement with the Company.
However, the Board to the full Board.
The authorities in the Board matrix are reviewed believes that during the year ended 31 December 2004, W Hauser regularly and any changes are approved by the Board.
The Board brought valuable expertise to the Board and exercised independent matrix is communicated to all senior management to ensure judgement in all decisions.
With effect from 1 March 2005, that throughout the Group it is known when Board approval Wolfhart Hauser is appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts The Board, excluding the Chairman, does not comprise at least half A new annual performance evaluation process led by the independent Non-Executive Directors, as set out in the Code, but Chairman, has been established for each Director, Committee and believes that during 2004, its composition, taking into account the the Board as a whole.
A series of questionnaires has been designed balance of skills, knowledge and experience, resulted in an efficient and these forms provide a framework for the evaluation process, and effective board operation and that the balance between and provide the Chairman with a means of making year-on-year Executive and Non-Executive Directors remained satisfactory.
There are five questionnaires in total, one for felt to be inappropriate to recruit a new Non-Executive Director each of the following: the Board: each individual Director: the whilst the search for a new Chief Executive Officer was also being Remuneration Committee: the Nomination Committee: and undertaken, though a further review of the Boards composition the Audit Committee.
and balance will be undertaken during 2005.
The first evaluation took place in 2004, when the performance To enable all the Directors to discharge their duties, they have full of each individual Director and the functioning and constitution and timely access to all relevant information.
The Board papers are of the Board and each Committee was assessed.
The Chairman circulated in plenty of time before the Board meetings to ensure assessed the individual performance of each Director, in that Directors have the necessary time to read and review the consultation with the other Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors, accounts and regular management reports and information which had discussions with the other Non-Executive Directors without enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements the Chairman being present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance against agreed objectives.
The results of the assessments concluded that the performance of the Board, each Committee A formal induction programme has been established for new and each Director is effective and that all Directors demonstrate Directors and this is tailored to suit the individual to ensure that full commitment in their respective roles to the Company.
it is appropriate for their level of previous experience.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review annually its All Directors have access to the advice and services of the performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
Company Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional training as required.
The appointment and removal of the BOARD COMMITTEES Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board has established several Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures and powers.
All these Each year a conference is held, attended by the Board and senior Committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of management from each division and geographic area, in order to reference as approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms of discuss strategy and policy.
In 2004, the Board also visited the USA reference for each of these Committees are available on request to tour some of the Groups facilities and meet local management.
from the Secretariat Department at the registered office or can be These meetings help to ensure that the Directors continue to downloaded from www.
The number of full Board develop their knowledge of the business of the Group and get to meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director know the senior management in the Group.
during the year was as follows: All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Scheduled Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Name Position meetings meetings meetings meetings five Treves Chairman 8 8 4 4 3 3 7 9 RC Nelson Chief Executive Officer 8 8 N A N A N A W Spencer Chief Financial Officer 8 8 N A N A N A R Kong Executive Director 3 3 N A N A N A DP Allvey Senior Independent Director 8 8 4 4 3 3 8 9 W Hauser Non-Executive Director 8 8 N A N A N A RE Sayers Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 4 4 3 3 9 9 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period during which the relevant individual was a Director or Committee member.
com Corporate governance continued 24 25 Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set THE AUDIT COMMITTEE out below.
This Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
Under the THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Code, five Treves is not viewed as independent as he is Chairman This Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, of the Company.
Therefore the Company is not in full compliance DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
Under the Code, as with the Code, which requires an Audit Committee to have at Chairman of the Company, five Treves is not viewed as independent.
least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, during Therefore the Company is not in full compliance with the Code, 2004, the Audit Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed which requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least three that the current membership of the Committee was appropriate independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, during 2004, and effective and also deemed that five Treves exercised the Remuneration Committee was evaluated and the Board independent judgement on all issues presented to that Committee.
agreed that the current membership of the Committee was DP Allvey has recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in appropriate and effective and deemed that five Treves exercised his biography on page 16 of the Annual Review.
independent judgement on all remuneration matters referred to that Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for to the Board on the Groups policy for the remuneration of monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and the Executive Directors and senior executives and for the making recommendations to the Board in relation to the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of additional appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including pension auditor.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate rights and any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee relationship between the Group and the external auditors is is also responsible for the implementation and operation of maintained.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal employee share incentive arrangements.
During 2004, the control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks Remuneration Committee met nine times.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is responsible for approving, upon the THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and This Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, termination of the head of that function.
The Committee meets five Treves Chairman, DP Allvey and RE Sayers.
This Committee, with the Vice President Compliance at least once a year without which met three times during the year, nominates candidates management present.
to fill board vacancies, reviews succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board on the balance and composition The Groups auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial of the Board in order to ensure that the Board is effective in Officer, Vice President Financial Control, Vice President Compliance discharging its responsibilities.
and the Head of Internal Audit, usually attend Committee meetings.
The Groups auditors meet with the members of the Bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Audit Committee alone at least once a year.
on the Board, a job description is prepared for any new Board position and when a NonExecutive Director is appointed, the The Audit Committee seeks to ensure the continued independence Committee will ensure that he or she has confirmed that they have and objectivity of the Groups auditors and in this regard, monitors sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of the role.
The terms and the level of non-audit work undertaken for the Group.
During 2004, conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available a policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditor for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office was approved by the Board to ensure that auditor objectivity and during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting independence is safeguarded.
The policy highlights those areas for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
All where the external auditor cannot provide services to the Group new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first and they include inter alia, the provision of Group management Annual General Meeting after their appointment and then are functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal advice subject to re-election by shareholders once every three years.
and recruitment and remuneration advice.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during the During the year the Committee appointed Whitehead Mann, an year is set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
external search firm, to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent process in the appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report remains with the The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the Board.
During 2004, the Audit Committee met four times.
Chairman and other Committee members when available, also attend meetings held twice a year with the external auditor and management to discuss any accounting issues associated with the full-year audit and half-year review.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts
