Corporate governance Rolf Brjesson retired on 19 December 2003 and was succeeded Principles as Senior Independent Director by Mr Macfarlane on 21 April 2004.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
During the interim period the Company and its advisers were Throughout the year under review, Invensys has been in full engaged in extensive dialogue with leading shareholders related to compliance with the applicable provisions of the Combined Code the refinancing plan announced in February 2004 and completed in the Code, appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing March 2004, and the Board considers that the principle underlying Authority the Listing Rules, save in relation to the short period the Code requirement in relation to the availability of channels of between the retirement of the Senior Independent Director and the communication was substantially met during the period.
appointment of his successor as reported below.
The following also describes how the Principles set out in the Code have been applied During the year, Larry Farmer undertook, for a limited period and at and how the Company plans to enhance its procedures with a view the request of the Board, additional advisory and oversight activities to reporting next year on compliance with the Principles of the new in relation to a specific strategic performance initiative.
He received Code that will apply to the Companys financial period ending on fees in addition to his basic non-executive fees.
Mr Farmers own 31 March 2005 the new Code.
business experience was considered by the Board to be particularly relevant and valuable for this purpose and the Board considers that The Board Mr Farmers independence was not affected by these circumstances.
The Board currently has seven members, comprising five nonexecutive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive The Board committees directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the The Board has three standing committees, whose full terms of Chairman and the Chief Executive formulated in their terms of reference are available on the Companys website and on request appointment which ensures that there is a balance of power and from the Company Secretary.
The Board reviewed the roles of its authority.
All the non-executive directors are regarded as Committees and their terms of reference during the year and will in independent and Andrew Macfarlane is the Senior Independent the coming year undertake the reviews of effectiveness required by Director.
Biographies of all the directors are presented on page 16. the new Code.
As can be seen, they have a wide range of international business and financial experience relevant to the direction of a global company.
The Nominating Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of directors, reviewing induction and training Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the requirements for individual directors and or the Board as a whole operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is and making recommendations to the Board for the appointment particularly important in ensuring that the strategies proposed by or re-appointment and retirement of directors.
Its current members the executive management team are fully discussed and examined are Martin Jay, who was a member of the Committee throughout to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of shareholders the year and became Chairman of the Committee on 23 July 2003, and also take account of issues affecting employees, customers, and two further independent non-executive directors, Jean-Claude suppliers and the many communities in which Invensys conducts Guez and Simon Robertson both appointed on 23 July 2003. its business.
Lord Marshall as Chairman of the Committee and Sir Philip Beck The Board meets at least eight times during the course of a year also served on the Committee until 23 July 2003.
During the year, with additional meetings convened as necessary.
In the financial the Committee was responsible, with external recruitment advisers, year under review, during which significant strategic, financing and for the selection and appointment of the new Chief Operating structural issues have been addressed, the Board met on 13 Officer.
The Committee will play a leading role in the Boards occasions.
It is exceptional for any director to be absent from any reviews of its own performance and that of its Committees and meeting and none of the current directors attended less than 11 individual members.
meetings of the Board last year.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board, which includes all The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive major strategic and financial decisions: other decision-making is directors: Mr Macfarlane, who was appointed as Chairman of the delegated through structured procedures to committees and senior Committee on 1 April 2003, Mr Farmer, who also served throughout management.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors the year, and Mr Robertson, who was appointed on 16 September have full and timely access to all relevant information and to the 2003.
Mr Brjesson served as a member of the Committee until services of the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets at least four times a year professional advice is available to the directors, collectively and and met during the year under review on five occasions to review individually, as circumstances require.
the published financial information and effectiveness of both external and internal audit and of the Groups internal controls and The Boards programme includes meetings of the non-executives risk management procedures.
The external auditors normally attend without the executives being present.
Updated appraisal procedures all the meetings and there is a meeting at least once a year between relating to the performance of the Board, its Committees, the the Committee and the external auditors at which management is Chairman and other individual members will be implemented during not present.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive the forthcoming year.
and Chief Financial Officer normally attend meetings of the An induction programme is established on the appointment of Committee.
The other non-executive directors regularly attend a new director, and an ongoing training and briefing programme meetings of the Committee to obtain a fuller briefing on significant is being implemented on a continuing basis.
accounting and internal control issues, and this forum is particularly valuable in providing a direct line of communication between the Each director is required to retire by rotation no later than the external auditors and the non-executive directors.
third annual general meeting following their appointment or re-appointment.
17 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee reviews the work undertaken by the external Main Board review of internal control auditors going beyond the scope of the audit itself in order to ensure In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control, that the independence of the auditors is not impaired.
This review the following is the Boards report on its annual and continuing covers the nature of the work, the method of appointment and the reviews of internal control, which include consideration of the fees paid.
This work generally falls into two categories as follows: effectiveness of identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks affecting Invensys.
To facilitate the Boards reviews, Audit and assurance: this includes work that in their role as the Audit Committee receives reports from internal and external auditor they are best placed to undertake.
This comprises formal auditors and from executive management in relation to the control reporting and other work related to borrowings, shareholder and procedures that are in place and the methods by which assurance is other circulars, various regulatory reports and work in respect of obtained concerning the levels of adherence to controls.
Following acquisitions and disposals: and detailed review, the Committee then reports on its findings to the Taxation: the auditors are used in cases where they are best Board.
The Board is satisfied that the information that it has suited, such as tax compliance and statutory work.
Other received throughout the year and for its annual review together significant tax advisory projects are put out to competitive tender.
with the procedural review framework that has been established are sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee also reviews the work undertaken by the Groups system of internal control.
Risk Council and by the Groups internal audit function, as described in more detail in the section of this report dealing with internal The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control.
In addition, it reviews the Companys arrangements under control.
Each of the Groups businesses is individually accountable which staff can raise on a confidential basis concerns about to the Chief Executive, and is managed by a business president who, potential irregularities.
with his senior management team, provides day-to-day control over the businesses operations within the strategic guidelines and scope The Remuneration Committees constitution and role are of delegated autonomy and delegated authorities determined by described in the Boards Remuneration report on page 19. the Board.
The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups Communication with shareholders particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it should In the course of the period under review, there was extensive be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control dialogue between the Company and its major shareholders, is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against particularly in relation to the refinancing and strategic proposals material misstatement or loss.
In the following paragraphs the and business disposals that were proposed to shareholders at directors consider the key components of the Groups system of Extraordinary General Meetings held in December 2003 and March internal control and the process by which they have reviewed the and May 2004.
Communication with all shareholders is given a effectiveness of such controls.
The Groups risk management strategy is determined by the Board During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of with the objective of setting clear guidelines in relation to the levels the progress of the Company through trading statements and of retained risk acceptable to the Group.
The Risk Council reports other announcements of significant developments that are released to the Board through the Audit Committee and continuously reviews through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
and monitors the risk management strategy.
It comprises the Chief There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and Financial Officer Chairman of the Council, the Chief Executive, the participation in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise Senior Vice President and General Counsel, the Group Financial questions directly with the Company at any time of the year Controller, the Group Treasurer, the Director Group Risk through a facility on the website.
Management, the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice President The Summary financial statement provides shareholders with the Environmental, Health & Safety and the Company Secretary.
During material information concerning Invensys in a form more readily the year, its activities have included reviewing the Groups risk assimilated than the full Annual report and accounts.
Shareholders framework and its monitoring functions and, following the changes can also request the full report.
At the half year an interim report is that have taken place, putting in place new mechanisms for published.
All of these documents are available online through the assessing all major risks together with their related risk management Invensys website www.
com corpgov, together with responses and, where appropriate, corrective programmes.
details of all announcements, investor presentations and share The internal risk management function reports to the Chief Financial price information.
Officer and is responsible for assessing the Groups exposure to Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting risk in areas such as product liability, for making appropriate policy for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the recommendations to the Risk Council and the Board and for chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
monitoring compliance with policies adopted by the Board.
Responsibility for health, safety, the environment and property The Annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders at least rests with the Senior Vice President Human Resources and Group 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Voting is Services, who reports to the Chief Executive.
The legal function, conducted by polls at general meetings: the voting results are which reports to the Chief Executive, also monitors and acts on announced to the London Stock Exchange and are available on the specific legal issues, legal claims and litigation.
18 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
