Investor relations report Overview Review of 2004 AMEC investor relations is committed to improving the understanding Key events in AMECs investor relations programme are the companys of AMEC and its business activities in the financial community, enabling preliminary and interim results announcements, annual general financial markets to place an appropriate valuation on the company.
meeting and related trading updates.
In the year ended 10 March 2005, these events took place on the following dates: This report provides an overview of AMECs investor relations strategy, the investor relations programme in 2004 and other information of interest to shareholders.
Annual general meeting trading update 19 May 2004 Trading update 23 June 2004 AMECs investor relations strategy reflects the companys guiding Interim results announcement 2 September 2004 principles available at www.
com and its responsibilities to Trading update 12 January 2005 shareholders, which are: Preliminary results announcement 10 March 2005 to seek to achieve the best returns on investment that markets will allow and provide accurate and timely information on the On the days the preliminary and interim results were announced, companys performance: and AMECs chairman, chief executive and finance director made presentations to analysts, institutional investors and banks in London, to manage the affairs of the company through responsible and with their slides and speaking remarks being published at the time effective corporate governance, identifying and managing the risks of delivery on AMECs website.
Interviews were also given to journalists inherent in our activities on an ongoing basis.
from leading newswires and the national and regional press.
The strategy is focused on three key areas which are: Following both the preliminary and interim results announcements, Compliance with all regulations relating to the conduct of companies major shareholders were offered one-on-one meetings with listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This includes ensuring that management, with other institutional shareholders being offered the all market sensitive information is issued firstly through the London opportunity to attend group meetings hosted by the companys brokers.
Stock Exchange and as soon as possible thereafter is made available During the course of 2004, AMEC met with a total of 72 2003: 73 to the financial community through various channels including institutions in the UK, Europe and the US.
AMECs corporate website at www.
com: Following two major site visits in 2003 at which AMECs oil and Understanding the shareholder base and market sentiment gas and railway businesses were presented by senior operational towards AMEC.
This is achieved through close working relationships management, the main event in 2004 was the sector change with advisers, regular share register analysis and non-attributable presentation on 8 December, which introduced AMEC to new analysts feedback from analysts and investors: and and investors in the Support Services sector, whilst at the same time Delivery of a comprehensive programme of investor relations introducing the companys new segmental analysis to the financial activity involving effective communication and consultation with community.
This event was announced in advance to the London current and potential investors and analysts.
Stock Exchange, with all slides and speaking remarks being published on www.
com on the day of presentation.
Non-attributable AMEC investor relations controls and coordinates the companys feedback from this event was extremely positive.
programme of investor relations activity in line with this strategy.
In support of its objectives, AMEC has put in place a management AMEC recognises the importance of the internet in financial and policy framework for investor relations together with best practice communications and closely follows developments in best practice notes on contact with the financial community, stock exchange in investor communications on the internet.
Over the last 12 months announcements and published information.
These documents a new charting facility which maps key events against the companys are available to employees on the companys intranet.
share price was introduced, together with the first on-line version of AMECs annual report.
The sites best practice e-mail alerting service remains a quick and efficient way to be kept appraised of company announcements.
During 2004 the number of visits made to the investors pages of www.
The site was runner up in the IR Magazine 2004 Awards in the Best use of the internet for investor relations category for a non-FTSE 100 company.
