34 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT page thirty four INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 35 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT page thirty five THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUES TO REVIEW THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK IN PLACE THROUGHOUT THE ORGANISATION ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee continues to review The Group is currently preparing to The Audit Committee is responsible for the risk management processes and the introduce an internal financial audit making recommendations on the internal control framework in place function during the year ending appointment of external auditors, the level throughout the organisation.
The key 30 April 2005 to further enhance the of the audit fee and for ensuring their elements of this framework are existing internal control framework.
The Audit Committee summarised in the Corporate Governance work of the internal financial audit function reviews proposed results publications and report included within this annual report.
will supplement the work of the internal the effectiveness of internal controls.
quality audit team which was introduced EXTERNAL AUDITORS during the year ended 30 April 2004 AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Audit Committee also reviews annually following the Group receiving AND MEETINGS the performance of the Groups external ISO 9001:2000 accreditation.
The work The Audit Committee is chaired by Eurfyl auditors to ensure that an objective, of the internal quality audit team during ap Gwilym.
Other members of the Audit professional and cost-effective relationship the year has concentrated on ensuring that Committee are David Thorpe from is maintained.
The Audit Committee is the Group complies with rigorous quality 11 May 2004, Colin Wall from also responsible for monitoring non-audit processes covering both operational and 11 May 2004 and Geoff White.
fees paid to the external auditors to ensure financial procedures.
The Groups quality Digby Jones was a member of the Audit that no conflicts of interest arise.
processes are also subject to annual Committee until 11 May 2004.
All The Audit Committee must authorise external audits which all received members of the Audit Committee are all non-audit work above 5,000 satisfactory results during the year.
commissioned from the external auditors Other directors and the external auditors The report was approved by the Board on in advance of such work being undertaken.
are invited to Audit Committee meetings 23 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by: The Audit Committee has reviewed the as appropriate.
non-audit fees paid to the external The Audit Committee met three times auditors which, in aggregate, totalled during the year with the Group Finance 27,000 and has deemed that in the Director and twice with the external year ended 30 April 2004 they do not Eurfyl ap Gwilym auditors.
In addition, the Audit Committee affect independence.
Chairman of the Audit Committee also met with the external auditors without INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION the executive directors being present on The Audit Committee is responsible for two occasions.
All of the Audit Committee considering the need for an internal audit meetings were fully attended, save that function on an annual basis.
Digby Jones was absent from two of the Historically, the Audit Committee has been meetings.
Details of the remuneration of satisfied that a separate, independent the members of the Audit Committee internal financial audit function has not are set out on page 32 of the been required given the relative size and Remuneration Report.
complexity of the Groups operations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, INTERNAL Following the merger with Torex and the FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND RISK consequent increase in the size of the MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS business, the Audit Committee believes it The Audit Committee meets to review the is now necessary to introduce an internal Groups annual and interim financial audit function appropriate to a large, statements, internal management rapidly growing public company.
arrangements, accounting policies and internal financial controls.
