18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page eighteen INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page ninteen THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUPPORTS THE HIGHEST STANDARDS IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SEEKS TO APPLY RECOMMENDED BEST PRACTICE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS representing the interests of AND APPROACH The Group is controlled by the Board of shareholders and satisfying all The Board of directors the Board is directors which, at 30 April 2004 statutory duties due to them: committed to the highest levels of comprised the Executive Chairman, the ensuring appropriate behaviour with business integrity, high ethical values and Chief Executive Officer, three further respect to the various codes of professionalism in all its activities.
As an executive directors and six experienced corporate governance and good essential part of this commitment, the non-executive directors, five of whom were business practices and by providing Board supports the highest standards in independent for their period of an audit trail of accountability: corporate governance and seeks to apply appointment during the year.
Biographical overseeing good corporate citizenship recommended best practice where this is details of each director are set out on and ethical behaviour by the Group appropriate for the Group.
Each non-executive director is encouraged to contribute to and its employees with regard to all The Board acknowledges that the Group both the full Board and its committees its internal and external stakeholders: operates in a rapidly developing business as appropriate.
Changes to the risk profiles forum, free from conflicts, in which in the business environment arise as a The directors are encouraged to bring an the Chief Executive Officer can test result of both external challenges, in a independent judgement to bear on both strategic thinking with an informed highly competitive and politically driven strategic and operational matters.
Any group having broad continuity market place, and through internal director may challenge company policy over time: challenges including the growth in the size and decisions are taken democratically of the business and the development of after discussion.
requiring the Chief Executive Officer new products, management systems and to report openly on the operational There is a formal schedule of matters procedures.
These challenges also performance of all parts of the Group: reserved for the Board.
These include manifest themselves in greater detail as strategy, approval of annual budgets, monitoring the effectiveness of the risks to the success of the Groups significant investments and risk Chief Executive Officer and his financial, operational and compliance management.
The Board met seven times executive team against a series activities.
As a result, the Board is diligent during the year.
of performance objectives and in evaluating and prioritising each risk and Regular dialogue is maintained to ensure benchmarks: in determining appropriate systems and that the investing community receives a controls to detect and address them on an setting a control framework within balanced and consistent view of the on-going basis.
By doing so, the Board which the Chief Executive Officer can Groups performance.
believes that an effective mechanism for operate and authorising his decisions continual improvement in threat mitigation on major issues and investments: STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS ROLES and opportunity management is With the objective of ensuring successful constituting subcommittees of the being adopted.
creation of shareholder value within a Board to address the issues of framework of acceptable risk, the Board remuneration, appointments and sees its role to include: audit: and assisting value creation through providing open disclosure in respect entrepreneurial leadership and by the of the remuneration of executive controlled and measured directors and senior members of staff management of a wide range of in order to incentivise other staff.
business risks: deciding the strategic direction and providing the resources required to fulfil the future needs of the business: 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page twenty The directors confirm that they have All shareholders are welcomed to the The directors are responsible for keeping complied with the above requirements in Annual General Meeting where the proper accounting records which disclose performing their roles.
Executive Chairman provides an overview with reasonable accuracy at any time the of the Groups business performance and financial position of the Company and The Board believes that its style of future prospects.
Shareholders are enable them to ensure that the financial involvement with management through the encouraged to raise questions and express statements comply with the Companies Chief Executive Officer and the executive their views.
The Executive Chairman aims Act 1985.
They are also responsible for directors is the most effective way to to ensure that all directors including safeguarding the assets of the Company provide confidence in the control Committee Chairmen are available at the and hence for taking reasonable steps for environment of the Group.
Through meeting to answer relevant questions.
the prevention and detection of fraud and openness, the provision of well-defined other irregularities.
information and discussion, the Board In addition, the Group has established an endeavours to understand and provide investor relations facility on its website The directors confirm that they have leadership as to the willingness of the where up to date financial and other complied with the above requirements Group to take appropriate risks in the information can be found.
in preparing the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' The Annual Report is available on the SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL Groups website www.
The The Board is committed to good STATEMENTS maintenance and integrity of the Group's communication with its shareholders and Company law in the United Kingdom website is the responsibility of the maintaining an open and proactive dialogue requires the directors to prepare financial directors.
The work carried out by the with its institutional investors.
statements for each financial year which auditors does not involve consideration give a true and fair view of the state of of these matters and, accordingly, the The Board values the views of shareholders affairs of the Company and the Group auditors accept no responsibility for any and recognises their interests in the and of the profit or loss of the Group for changes that may have occurred to the Groups strategy and performance.
information contained in the financial A regular dialogue is maintained with statements since they were initially investment fund managers, other In preparing those financial statements, presented on the website.
investors and equity analysts to ensure the directors are required to: that the investing community receives Legislation in the United Kingdom select suitable accounting policies and a balanced and consistent view of the governing the preparation and then apply them consistently: Groups performance.
dissemination of the financial statements make judgments and estimates that and other information included in annual The Chief Executive Officer and Group are reasonable and prudent: reports may differ from legislation in Finance Director normally attend all other jurisdictions.
state whether applicable United investor briefings and the Executive Kingdom accounting standards have Chairman attends as required and, been followed, subject to any material in particular, at the interim and full year departures disclosed and explained in results announcements.
the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page twenty one APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Each member of the Board brings different The Board monitors performance against The Audit Committee met three times experience and skills to the operation of the the achievement of the Groups strategic during the year and all members were Board and its various committees.
Each executive director has present at each meeting.
All independent Board composition is kept under review defined responsibilities for performance non-executive directors with the exception and when a new appointment is to be and measurement of achievement of Digby Jones are members of the made, consideration is given to the includes a mix of financial and Committee with other directors and the particular skills, knowledge and experience non-financial, together with predictive external auditors invited as appropriate.
that a potential new member could add to and historic indicators.
The report of the Audit Committee is set the existing board composition.
BOARD COMMITTEES Comprehensive, formal and tailored The Audit Committee, the Nominations INTERNAL CONTROL induction is provided to new Board Committee and the Remuneration The Board retains full responsibility for the members.
The Group has long recognised Committee deal with specific aspects of Groups system of internal controls, which the vital role that non-executive directors the Groups affairs in accordance with operate on a global basis, and for reviewing have in ensuring high governance their written terms of reference.
However, such a system standards and maintains a significant, high are comprised of only independent is designed to manage rather than calibre, non-executive representation on non-executive directors.
The non-executive eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Board.
directors also met once during the period business objectives and can, therefore, All directors are required to submit without the Executive Chairman or other provide only reasonable and not absolute themselves for re-election at regular executive directors present.
assurance against material misstatement intervals and at least every three years.
In accordance with the Combined THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Code, the directors have reviewed the INFORMATION AND The Nominations Committee has only effectiveness of the Groups system of PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT recently been established.
Its terms of internal controls during the year, including The directors have implemented reference include the authority to review financial, operational, compliance and risk appropriate reporting procedures to ensure and make recommendations to the Board management controls.
that they are supplied with timely, accurate about Board appointments.
Digby Jones is and comprehensive information to enable Chairman of the Nominations Committee Key elements of the Groups internal the Board to discharge its duties in full.
and all independent non-executive directors controls are: Existing Board members have many years are members of the Committee.
a clearly defined management of relevant experience, all are responsible THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE structure and delegation of authority for ensuring continuing professional The Remuneration Committee met four to committees of the Board, heads development to maintain up to date and times during the year and all members of departments and individual effective skills and knowledge.
The were present at each meeting.
The business units: directors have access to seek independent Committee is chaired by Geoff White clearly documented internal advice, at the Groups expense, if and all independent non-executive procedures set out in the Groups necessary for the proper performance of directors are members of the Committee.
ISO 9001:2000 accredited quality their duties.
The directors also have The Remuneration Report is set out on management manual: access to the Company Secretary for his pages 28 to 33. advice and services.
regular internal quality audits of key processes and procedures under the Groups ISO 9001:2000 accredited quality management process: 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page twenty two an internal quality audit function which COMPLIANCE WITH CODE PROVISIONS This report was approved by the Board on consists of four full time and fifty two The directors believe that the Group has 23 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by: part time members: complied in all material requirements of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 as high recruitment standards together annexed to the Financial Service Authoritys with formal career development and Listing Rules throughout the year.
training to ensure the integrity and competence of staff: The revised Combined Code the Revised Code was issued in July 2003 Digby Jones regular and comprehensive incorporating recommendations from the Senior Independent Director information provided to management, Higgs Report on Corporate Governance and covering financial performance and the Smith report in respect of Audit key performance indicators, including Committees.
The Revised Code will be non-financial measures: applicable to the Groups financial year a detailed budgeting process and ending 30 April 2005.
Having reviewed the rolling three year strategic plans which principles and provisions of the Revised are approved by the Board: Code, the Board believes that it currently substantially complies with the new procedures for the approval of capital provisions and expects to be fully compliant expenditure and investment and by this time next year.
acquisition projects: GOING CONCERN on-going review of contractual The directors are satisfied that the Group agreements with existing and new has adequate resources to continue in customers: and operational existence for the foreseeable monthly monitoring and re-forecasting future, a period of not less than twelve of results against budget, with months from the date of this report.
investigation and action taken in For this reason, they continue to adopt response to variances.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have Following the merger with Torex, the Group satisfied themselves that the Group is in a plans to introduce an internal audit function sound financial position and that sufficient dedicated to testing internal financial cash resources will be available to meet controls during the year ending foreseeable investment opportunities or 30 April 2005.
Further detail is provided other cash requirements.
in the Audit Committee report on pages 34 to 35.
23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page twenty three INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES
