63 Corporate governance The Board of ITV plc is committed to business integrity and high ethical non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related values across the Groups operations.
As an essential part of this fees paid to them.
Charles Allen served as a non-executive director commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate governance of Tesco plc throughout the period and Henry Staunton served as a and has a policy of seeking to comply with the recommendations of the non-executive director and chairman of Ashtead Group PLC until Combined Code and voting guidelines of our major institutional investors.
February 2004 and as a non-executive director of Legal and General Group plc from May 2004.
They both retained the fees from these Compliance appointments.
Details of the amounts retained are set out in the As required by the Listing Rules issued by the UK Listing Authority, Remuneration report on page 70. this report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The non-executive directors It also discloses the extent to which the Company has complied with The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help develop the Codes provisions.
They bring strong, independent judgement, The Board considers that, throughout the year, and subsequently knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent up to the date of this report the Company complied with the provisions directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry of the Combined Code.
significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Independence: The Combined Code recommends that at least half The Board of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Composition: The Board currently comprises ten members, the non-executive directors.
The ITV Board considers each of its Chairman, seven non-executive and two executive directors.
Biographical non-executive directors to be independent except David Chance details for each of the directors are set out on pages 28 and 29. who has previously provided consultancy services to Granada plc.
Chairman: Sir Peter Burt is Chairman and is responsible for leadership Meetings of non-executives: The non-executive directors meet regularly of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
his professional commitments are included in his biography on page 28.
Terms of appointment: Subject to the Companys articles of The Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
The Chairman is committed association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years to approximately 52 days per annum.
Before the third and sixth Chief Executive: Charles Allen is Chief Executive and has responsibility anniversary of the non-executive directors first appointment, the director to the Board for leadership and management of the Company will discuss with the Board whether it is appropriate for a further three and management of the day-to-day operations of the Company.
The re-appointment of directors who have served The respective job descriptions of the Chairman and the Chief for more than nine years will be subject to annual review.
The terms and Executive are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available on Copies are available on the Corporate Information section of the the Corporate Information section of the Company website at Company website at www.
com Senior Independent Director: Sir George Russell is Deputy Chairman Time commitment: The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive and the senior independent non-executive director.
He acts as a conduit directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
to the Board for communication of shareholder concerns when other channels of communication are inappropriate and ensures that the Company Secretary: The Company Secretary, James Tibbitts, is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Details of his professional commitments are included in his biography governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Companys articles of on page 28.
The Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
His job description association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company is available on the Corporate Information section of the Company website at www.
com Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Election and re-election: All directors are required by the Companys How the Board operates articles of association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual Board meetings: The Board is scheduled to meet 11 times in 2005 General Meeting after their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all including two meetings devoted to discussion of strategic matters and directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three may meet at other times as and when required.
Directors attendance: Attendance of directors at Board and Committee The directors who will be seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2005 are set out in the Directors report on page 30. meetings during 2004 is set out in the table below.
The reasons why the Board believes they should be re-elected are set Board responsibility and delegation: The specic responsibilities are out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the Annual General Meeting set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include: sent with this document.
setting long term objectives and corporate strategy and approving an annual budget: approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital External directorships: With the specic approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as expenditure: approving Board appointments: reviewing systems of Audit Nomination Remuneration Name Board Strategy Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings in 2004 102438 1 Sir Peter Burt 62 n a 0 n a Sir George Russell 92437 David Chance 92 n a n a n a James Crosby 10 2438 2 Etienne fide Villiers 61326 John McGrath 92437 Sir Brian Pitman 10 2438 Charles Allen 10 2 n a n a n a Henry Staunton 10 2 n a n a n a Notes: 1 Sir Peter Burt was appointed on 15 March 2004.
He has attended all meetings held following his appointment.
2 Etienne fide Villiers resigned as a director on 6 September 2004.
He was absent from one meeting whilst a director of the Company.
3 Sir Robert Phillis and Baroness Usha Prashar were appointed as directors on 7 February 2005 so are not included in the table above.
4 Non attendance has been due to ill health and commitments arranged before the merger.
64 ITV plc Annual report 04 Corporate governance financial control and risk management: and approving policies relating Throughout their period in ofce, the directors are continually updated to directors remuneration.
The full schedule of matters reserved to the on the Groups businesses, the competitive and regulatory environments Board is available on the Corporate Information section of the Company in which they operate, corporate social responsibility matters and other website at www.
com changes affecting the Group and the markets in which it operates.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to board committees, This is provided by written briengs and meetings with senior executives the key committees being the Remuneration Committee, the Audit across the Group and from meetings with key advisers.
Directors are Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Further information is also advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and provided below and copies of the terms of reference for each Committee obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in are on the Corporate Information section of the Company website at face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
com on changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and in relation to their own position as directors.
Information ow: Regular reports and papers are circulated to the directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee Board Committees meetings.
These papers are supplemented by other relevant information The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and when applicable or if requested.
Management Committees are available on the Corporate Information The non-executive directors receive monthly management accounts section of the Companys website at www.
The terms of and regular management reports which enables them to scrutinise the reference are reviewed annually.
Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Independent professional advice: Directors are given access to Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all independent professional advice at the Groups expense, when the Board members.
directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their Audit Committee responsibilities.
Details of the process are available on the Corporate Information section of the Company website at www.
com Composition: During 2004 the Audit Committee comprised the following members: Insurance cover: The Company maintains liability insurance for its John McGrath Chairman of the Committee directors and ofcers with a cover limit of 50 million.
James Crosby Etienne fide Villiers until 6 September 2004 Board effectiveness Sir Brian Pitman from 3 September 2004 Performance evaluation: The Board has established a formal process, Sir George Russell led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, and individual directors with particular Sir Robert Phillis and Baroness Usha Prashar became members attention to those who are due for re-election.
The directors are made of the Committee on their appointment to the Board of ITV on aware, on appointment, that their performance will be subject to 7 February 2005. an annual evaluation.
All of the members are independent non-executive directors.
The first evaluation was undertaken in November 2004.
The Company The Committee normally meets four times a year.
designed a series of questionnaires, with the assistance of an independent The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least adviser, to provide a framework for the evaluation process, and provide the one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial Chairman with a means of making year-to-year comparisons.
The Board has considered this requirement, and has five questionnaires in total, one for each of the following: the Board: concluded that the wide range of business and financial experience individual directors: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination of the Committee members as a whole, gained at the highest level of Committee: and the Audit Committee.
Each Board member was asked UK FTSE 100 companies and other blue-chip organisations, is sufficient to complete each appropriate questionnaire.
The adviser then collated the to enable the Committee to full its terms of reference in a robust and results from the completed questionnaires, to ensure condentiality, and independent manner.
Biographical details of the members of the presented the consolidated results to the Chairman.
Individual director Committee are set out on pages 28 and 29. assessments were discussed by the Chairman with the relevant director At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Finance together with goals for the following year.
The results of the Board and Director, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of the external Committee evaluations were discussed with the Chairman at Board level.
auditors regularly attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee as a Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors whole has the opportunity to meet privately with the internal and external conducted their annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance: a auditors at any time they consider appropriate.
During the year there was similar method to that described above was employed.
The views of one such meeting.
the executive directors were also considered.
Terms of reference: In accordance with the Committees terms of Induction and continuing professional development: ITV has a policy reference the Committees main role and responsibilities include: and programme for induction and continuing professional development, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: which is reviewed annually.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and On appointment, each director takes part in an induction programme risk management systems: when he or she receives information about the Group in the form of reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise presentations by executives from the business and on the regulatory concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial environment.
They also meet representatives of the Companys key reporting or other matters: advisers.
In addition they receive information about the role of the Board monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference audit function: and and membership of Board Committees, and the powers delegated to considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation those Committees, the Groups corporate governance practices and to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and remuneration of procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information key senior executives and meetings with major shareholders.
that it requires from any employee to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
65 Activities in 2004: The Audit Committee met four times and discharged Remuneration Committee its responsibilities by: The Remuneration report can be found on pages 67 to 73.
Terms of reviewing the Groups draft financial statements including detailed engagement of the remuneration consultants are available on the disclosures prior to Board approval.
These draft financial statements Corporate Information section of the Company website at www.
com included the Groups 2003 UK financial statements and US 20-F Nomination Committee ling, and the Groups interim 2004 UK financial statements: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Composition: reviewing audit proposals from two external auditors, resulting in the During 2004 the Nomination Committee comprised the following Committee recommending the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as members: auditors to the Company: Sir Peter Burt Chairman reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan.
The David Chance Committees review included consideration of audit scope, auditor James Crosby independence and partner rotation policies, audit team, audit timetable Etienne fide Villiers until 6 September 2004 and fee proposal: John McGrath reviewing the external auditors reports on their work, considering the Sir Brian Pitman from 3 September 2004 findings of that work and conrming that all significant matters had Sir George Russell been satisfactorily resolved: Sir Robert Phillis and Baroness Usha Prashar became members monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the of the Committee on their appointment to the Board of ITV on Group by its external auditors.
The Committee has approved a formal 7 February 2005. policy governing the independence of the Companys external The majority of the Committees members are independent auditors and dening those non-audit services that may be provided non-executive directors.
The Committee normally meets at least once to the Group, including those which require the prior approval of the a year.
This policy provides for a cap in non-audit fees to be charged by the external auditor.
Details of the statutory audit and Terms of reference: The principal responsibilities of the Committee include: non-audit services are set out in note 4 of the financial statements: considering the impact of IFRS on the Companys financial reporting: reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board: identifying and nominating for Board approval candidates to ll considering the impact of acquisition fair value accounting as a result of the Carlton Granada merger that created the Company: Board vacancies: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on approving the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial the Board: and considering succession planning for directors and other reporting or other matters: reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for the senior executives.
The internal audit plan is constructed taking a Activities in 2004: The Committee reviewed the time that it believed risk based approach with the review cycle ensuring that nancially each non-executive director would normally be required to commit to material operations are reviewed annually and all activities are his or her duties including serving on the Boards Committees, and reviewed at least once every three years: considered whether it was sufficient to enable directors to carry out their considering internal audit reports and the actions taken to implement role.
Details of these time commitments have been included in individual the recommendations made in those reports: non-executive directors letters of appointment.
reviewing the results of the annual Group risk assessment process, The Committee initiated the search for a Chairman.
They began and considering a rolling programme of risk and internal control the process by dening the role of the Chairman including the time presentations made by each operating division and central service commitment expected, and identifying the core competencies required of functions: and the ideal candidate to carry out that role.
They then interviewed a number reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal control of professional search rms before selecting one and instructing them and its effectiveness and reporting to the Board on the results of accordingly.
After consideration of a number of candidates Sir Peter Burt that review.
In addition the Committee began the process of identifying suitable additional non-executive candidates, Auditors independence and objectivity again using a professional search rm.
Sir Robert Phillis and Baroness The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being Usha Prashar were appointed as directors on 7 February 2005. provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a On appointment all three met the independence criteria set out in the formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or Combined Code.
objectivity, and that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of The Committee considers the composition of the Board on an annual appropriately qualied audit rms.
The policy sets out four key basis to ensure the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
principles which underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: the auditor should not audit its own rms work, Management Committee The Management Committee comprises both the executive directors and make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or be put in the role of advocate meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly dened limits delegated by the Board and subject to those matters for the Group.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required for any engagement of the external auditors where the fee is likely reserved to the Board.
to be in excess of 0.1 million.
The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the external auditors regularly to review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements on page 43.
66 ITV plc Annual report 04 Corporate governance Internal control Relations with shareholders The Combined Code requires that companies review, at least annually, The Board attaches a high priority to communications with shareholders.
all material internal controls including financial, operational, compliance In addition to the preliminary and interim results presentations and the controls and risk management systems.
The Turnbull Report provides Annual General Meeting, a series of meetings between institutional guidance to directors in complying with these internal control shareholders, the Chairman, the senior independent director and the requirements and in the opinion of the Board the Company has complied executive directors is held throughout the year.
In fullment of the with this guidance throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process Chairmans obligations under the Combined Code, the Chairman gives for identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of The Group maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these systems has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of is delegated to line management.
Such systems can only provide issues affecting its performance.
These include meetings following the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement announcement of the annual results with the Groups largest institutional or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than shareholders on an individual basis.
In addition, the Group responds to eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the questions during the meeting and to meet with directors prior to the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman reviews the Companys responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, current trading.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with any compared with their individual budgets and forecast gures are related documents, is mailed to shareholders about nine weeks before reviewed on a month by month basis.
the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group separate issue.
The level of proxy votes lodged on a resolution is has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines announced to the meeting following voting and is made available on the of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect Corporate Information section of the Company website at www.
com of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, within 48 hours following the meeting.
investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly dened.
Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are Contacts for corporate governance considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process.
Chairman Sir Peter Burt Risk assessment: Management has responsibility for the Senior independent director Sir George Russell identication of risks facing each of the Groups businesses and Chief Executive Charles Allen for putting in place controls and procedures to mitigate and monitor Company Secretary James Tibbitts those risks.
A formal annual risk assessment process has been Telephone: 020 7620 1620 established, the results of which are reported to the executive Further information is available on the Corporate Information section directors and Board.
Key risks, mitigating controls and required of the Company website at www.
com actions are identied and monitored by the executive directors and Audit Committee.
Risks are also reviewed annually by the executive directors, who meet with the senior management of each business division and with the heads of each significant central service function specically to discuss the risks facing their areas.
In addition, presentations are made to the Audit Committee to enable it to review the risks in these areas at least once a year.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
Directors of each business division are required to confirm annually compliance with internal financial control in their area.
Serious control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the period ended 31 December 2004.
