Statement of corporate governance continued The Board approves the Groups strategic plan and its annual the Committees responsibilities, which it has fulfilled during budget and, throughout the year, reviews the performance of the year under review, and which include: the operating subsidiaries against their budgets and targets.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and The Board has commenced an evaluation of its effectiveness any formal announcements relating to the Companys and performance and of its committees.
financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: During the year, the Directors attended the following number of meetings of the Board and its Committees: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys financial Audit Nomination Remuneration controls and the internal control and risk management Board Committee Committee Committee systems: Number of meetings 10 3 4 5 making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Sir George Bull 9 3 3 5 auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of Keith Butler-Wheelhouse 9 3 3 5 engagement of the external auditors: Jamie Dundas 10 3 4 5 June fide Moller 9 3 4 5 reviewing and monitoring the external auditors Lord Levene 9 3 4 5 independence and objectivity: Bridget Macaskill 9 3 4 5 reviewing the external auditors overall work plan, the Sir Peter Davis 10 4 results of the audit, the performance of the external John Adshead 10 auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: and Roger Matthews 10 Stuart Mitchell 10 developing and implementing the policy of engagement Sara Weller 10 of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of The Company has a programme for meeting Directors such services does not impact the external auditors training requirements.
Newly-appointed Directors who independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of do not have previous public company experience at Board engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake, level are provided with appropriate training on their role and and others that can only be undertaken with appropriate responsibilities.
New Non-Executive Directors are offered authority, including approval from the Committee Chairman an appropriate induction programme.
Subsequent training or the Committee where non-audit fees will exceed preset is available on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs.
The Committee receives regular reports on the non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
The Chairman The Committee regularly reviews the Internal Audit is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, departments resources, budget, work programme, results timely and clear information.
and managements implementation of its recommendations, and will conduct a formal review of the departments All Directors have access to the advice and services of the effectiveness in the current financial year.
The Head of Company Secretary.
There is an agreed procedure by which Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee Chairman members of the Board may take independent professional and the Company Chairman.
The Committee Chairman holds advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their separate meetings with him and the external auditors, whilst duties.
The Company Secretary has responsibility for ensuring the Committee meets regularly with the external auditors, that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and without management being present, and may meet the removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters Head of Internal Audit when it deems necessary.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, The Committee has reviewed the whistle blowing procedures Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
whereby colleagues may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and Board Committees other matters.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Jamie Dundas and, During the year under review, the Nomination Committee during the year under review, held three meetings.
In 2004 05 was chaired by Sir George Bull and comprised each of the an additional meeting has been scheduled.
During 2003 04 Non-Executive Directors and Sir Peter Davis.
Following the the Committee comprised all of the Non-Executive Directors, adoption of the new terms of reference at the start of the including Sir George Bull.
Following the adoption of the current financial year, the Chief Executive is no longer a new terms of reference referred to below at the start of the member of the Committee although it is expected that he current financial year, the Company Chairman is no longer will be invited to attend meetings.
The current Chairman a member of the Committee, although it is expected that he of the Committee is Lord Levene.
will be invited to attend Committee meetings, together with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal The Committees new terms of reference are available on Audit and the external auditors.
the website and set out the Committees responsibilities, The Committees new terms of reference, which are available which include leading the process for Board appointments on the website, at www.
co. uk governance, set out and making recommendations to the Board.
The Committee meets when necessary and in 2003 04 met on four occasions.
10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 All Directors are required to seek reappointment by annually by the Audit Committee which then reports to shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment the Board.
The process consists of: and must stand for re-election to the Board every three years formal identification by management at each level of the under the Companys Articles of Association.
Group through a self assessment process of the key risks During the year, the Committee led the selection process for the to achieving their business objectives and the controls in new Chief Executive, instigating a thorough search nationally place to manage them.
The likelihood and potential impact and internationally through a leading executive search agency, of each risk is evaluated: and considered a number of suitable candidates.
certification by management that they are responsible for Following the withdrawal of the preferred candidate in February, managing the risks to their business objectives and that the Committee re-commenced its search for a new independent the internal controls are such that they provide reasonable Deputy Chairman and carried out a thorough review of the but not absolute assurance that the risks are appropriately process and communication exercise previously adopted.
identified, evaluated and managed: Remuneration Committee reporting and review by the board of each operating The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages company of risk management activities and action taken 12 to 20. to address non-compliance with controls or to improve their effectiveness: and Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal independent assurance by internal audit as to the existence controls and has delegated responsibility for reviewing its and effectiveness of the risk management activities effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The system of internal described by management.
controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk The system of internal control and risk management is of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives and can embedded into the operations of the Group, and the actions only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
It includes all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Going concern management.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the internal control systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative going concern basis in preparing the Group financial statements.
assessment to be made, and include the following: Investor relations discussion and approval by the Board of the strategic The Company is committed to maintaining good communications direction, plans and objectives of the Group and each with shareholders.
Normal shareholder contact is the operating company, and the risks to achieving them: responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
reviews and approval by the Board of budgets and The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available forecasts, including both revenue and capital expenditure: to major shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors who, along with buyside and sellside regular operational and financial reviews of performance analysts, are invited to briefings by the Company immediately against budgets and forecasts by management and the after the announcement of the Companys interim and full Board: year results.
The content of these briefings is posted on the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee Companys website www.
co. uk investors so as to of the scope and results of internal audit work across the be available to all shareholders.
In March, Makinson Cowell Group.
The scope of the work covers all key activities of were appointed to provide investor relations consultancy the Group and concentrates on higher risk areas: services to the Company and will report on the views of institutional investors to the Board.
reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM which will be held on 12 July 2004.
There reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and delegated authority levels: and and a business presentation will be made.
The Chairmen of consideration by the Audit Committee of the major the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be risks facing the Group and procedures to manage them.
Proxy votes will be announced These include health and safety, legal compliance, quality after each resolution.
A detailed explanation of each item of assurance, insurance, security and social, ethical and special business to be considered at the AGM is included with environmental risks.
the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Information on matters of particular interest to private This process has been in place throughout the year under shareholders is set out on page 30 of the Annual Review and review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report Summary Financial Statement.
In addition, the Companys and Financial Statements and accords with the Turnbull website www.
co. uk investors makes available guidance.
The effectiveness of the process is reviewed a wide range of information to all shareholders.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 11
