Corporate governance The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate Audit committee governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The The audit committee comprises all of the non-executive directors company is considering the revisions made to the code by the and is chaired by John Herring.
The committee meets at least Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 which are effective for three times a year with the external auditors and one or more reporting periods beginning on or after November 2003.
A full executive directors, as appropriate.
The audit committee, which explanation to shareholders will be provided, where any has written terms of reference, is responsible for reviewing the diversions from the new code are considered appropriate.
companys internal controls, risk-management procedures and the audit process, both internally and externally, and seeks to ensure This report refers to and sets out how the principles identified in that the financial and non-financial information supplied to the Combined Code effective for the year under review have shareholders is complete and accurate, presenting a balanced been applied to the company.
assessment of the companys position.
The committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the external auditors and also Statements of compliance considers the scope of their work and their fees.
The company complied with the requirements of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Particular attention is paid to the engagement of the companys auditors on non-audit work.
For several years, the company has The board of directors separated the provision of taxation compliance from the provision The board comprises Tim Martin, the non-executive chairman, of audit services.
In the current year, additional fees were paid for John Hutson, the chief executive officer, Jim Clarke, the finance non-audit work to the companys auditors with regard to a director and company secretary, Suzanne Baker, the commercial review of the companys long-term funding strategy as detailed director, and three non-executive directors.
The senior on page 25. independent non-executive director is John Herring.
The members of the board are described on page 8, and the board considers Communications with shareholders that all the non-executive directors other than Tim Martin are Representatives of the company have regular meetings and independent of the executive team and of the company, which dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Annual General provides a good balance for the proper governance of the Meeting is considered to be an important forum for company.
The board meets formally at least eight times each communicating with private shareholders, allowing them year, with other meetings as appropriate, and has a formal to raise questions with the board.
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
Directors are given appropriate and timely information for each board meeting, Going concern including monthly reports on the current financial and trading The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the position of the business.
companys financial resources, through a review of the companys budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital All directors have access to independent professional advice, if expenditure plans, cash flow forecasts and facilities available to required, at the companys expense.
The directors responsibilities the company, and have satisfied themselves that the company in respect of the financial statements are detailed on page 9. will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in On appointment, all executive directors undertake a preparing the companys financial statements.
comprehensive induction programme, covering all aspects of the companys operations.
Formal appraisals take place bi-annually, Risk assessment with any training and development needs evaluated as part of To ensure that the company has an ongoing process for that process.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company, the board has established a risk-management The articles require that one-third of directors retire by rotation, group which contains senior representatives from all aspects of subject to the requirement that each director seek re-election the business and is chaired by the finance director.
This group is every three years.
responsible for the administration of a risk register which looks at all areas of the business and formulates detailed action plans to Nomination committee mitigate any risks identified.
A formal nomination committee has been established, comprising John Herring chairman, Brian Jervis and Tony Lowrie.
The On behalf of the board, the audit committee reviews the nomination committee meets as appropriate and considers all effectiveness of the risk-management group and, where possible board appointments and also the re-election of directors, appropriate, identifies any matters requiring specific consideration both executive and non-executive.
No director is involved in any by the board.
Similarly, the audit committee reviews the scope of decision about his or her own re-appointment.
the work undertaken by the internal auditor and receives regular updates on its work and findings and monitors the implementation of recommended actions.
This process has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the Combined Code.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the companys system of internal control, which can be defined as the controls established in order to provide reasonable assurance that the assets have been protected against unauthorised use, that proper accounting records have been maintained and that the financial information which is produced is reliable.
Such a system can, however, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors recognise that, in attaining long-term shareholder value, they are responsible for providing a return which is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility to be discharged are as follows: A comprehensive budgeting process is in place, with a detailed operating plan for twelve months and a mid-term financial plan, both approved by the board.
Business results are reported weekly for key items and monthly in full and compared with budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board.
Clearly defined authority limits and controls are in place over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure.
A retail audit function monitors the control of cash, stock and operating procedures, in operating units.
A separate internal audit function also looks at the overall business risks facing the company and reviews general business processes.
Complex treasury instruments are not used.
Decisions on treasury matters are reserved for the board.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
