01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:51 pm Page 21 Corporate governance report All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by the Introduction Companys shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association, whereby JJB is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance and sets out a number of Directors closest to but not exceeding one third of the Directors retire below its report on how it applies the principles of the 1998 Combined Code.
All Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
The Board notes the requirements of The Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the The Board of Directors of JJB note the principle of Non-executive Directors 2003 code and are considering the impact of its recommendations.
normally not serving on a Board for more than 9 years, as set out in The Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial The requirements of the 2003 Code will apply to the accounting period beginning Reporting Council in July 2003.
This Code takes effect from the accounting on 26 January 2004, although a number of steps have already been taken to period commencing on 26 January 2004 and the Board of JJB is proposing the ensure compliance.
re-election of A. G. Thomas at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, even though he has served on the Board since October 1994.
Compliance The Company has, during the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 and up to the The Board recognises that A. G. Thomas brings to the Board a wide range of date of approval of this Annual report and Financial statements, complied with experience both as a practising accountant and as the former Executive the 1998 Code of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Chairman of a PLC operating in the same part of the leisure industry in which JJBs Leisure Division operates.
The Board of JJB do not believe that the length The Board of Directors of time during which A. G. Thomas has served on the Board affects the The Board, which is ultimately responsible for the direction, management and independence which he brings to his position as a Non-executive Director.
performance of the company, met eight times during the year.
At 25 January 2004, the Board of Directors comprised four Executive and three Non-executive Details of the notice periods in the service contracts of Executive and Nondirectors.
G. W. Foster resigned from the Board on 14 November after the executive Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 29. disposal of TJ Hughes Limited.
Short biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 16 to 17 of these Financial statements.
There is a clear division of There is an established procedure whereby Directors may, in the furtherance of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the roles of D. Whelan their duties, have access to independent professional advice and services at the Chairman who is responsible for the operation of the Board and Tom Knight Groups expense.
The Finance Director also acts as the Company Secretary and Chief Executive who is responsible for implementing strategy.
as such is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Board seeks independent advice whenever necessary.
Where considered The Board determines corporate strategy and reviews both financial and operational appropriate, relevant training will be made available to any Director and the need performance against forecasts and plans.
Full and timely access to all relevant for such training is assessed on a regular basis.
information is provided to all Board members, via comprehensive information packs, in order that it can discharge its duties effectively.
The information packs are In order to assist in the discharge of corporate governance responsibilities, the produced in advance of such meetings and include up to date management Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, which operate accounts and detailed trading information.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors within clearly defined terms of reference.
These Committees are described below.
are included in the distribution of weekly management accounts information.
Audit Committee A. G. Thomas is the nominated senior independent Non-executive Director.
The Audit Committee, which meets twice a year, is chaired by A. G. Thomas and also comprises the other two Non-executive Directors with the Finance Director All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of and representatives of the Groups external auditors in attendance.
This Management and of the Companys major shareholders.
Although one of the NonCommittee consults with the external auditors on the Groups financial executive Directors, R. Lane-Smith, is the Senior Partner of DLA, a major firm of statements, accounting policies, internal controls and any other matters raised by international solicitors used by JJB, it is the belief of the Executive Directors, that the the auditors.
The Committee subsequently makes recommendations to the Board fees paid to DLA are not such as to interfere with his independent judgment and when necessary.
The Committee also considers the independence and objectivity integrity.
During the accounting period ended 25 January 2004, 479,000 was paid of the external auditors, the services they provide, and the scope of audit work to DLA for legal work incurred during the ordinary course of business, representing and related fees along with a review of their reported findings.
less than 0.2 per cent of their fee income, 2003: 270,000.
Included in the fees paid to DLA during the accounting period ended 25 January 2004 was 253,000 of costs The Groups Risk Control Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the in respect of defending the action brought against JJB by the Office of Fair Trading.
Chairman and members of the Audit Committee.
21 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:51 pm Page 22 Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee Internal control and risk management The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent Non-executive The Company has established an Internal control framework encompassing Directors and is chaired by R. Lane-Smith.
The Committee reviews the both its financial and non-financial controls, the effectiveness of which is contractual and remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and regularly reviewed by the Board and senior managers.
senior executives, based upon their performance during the accounting period.
The Directors remuneration report is presented on pages 28 to 31 of these The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Financial statements.
Groups system of internal control, whilst it is the role of management to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The Board is assisted in Nominations Committee discharging its duties by the Audit Committee, which provides a direct link to The Nominations Committee is chaired by R. Lane-Smith and also comprises the both internal and external auditors through regular meetings.
Such a system is other Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is responsible for making designed to effectively manage, rather than eliminate, the risks that are recommendations on the appointment of new Directors to the Board and in significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives of long-term respect of the Boards balance and structure.
The Nominations Committee has growth of shareholder value via the maximisation of future earnings, and the not met during the accounting period ended 25 January 2004. safeguarding of the Groups assets.
Attendance at Board Committee Meetings Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held assurance that all significant business risks will be fully mitigated.
However, by during the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 and the attendance record of the ensuring that the system of internal control reflects the risk environment in individual Directors.
which the Group operates, the system provides adequate assurance that the key risks facing the Group are properly managed.
Board Audit  of Directors Committee Committee Committee The Board sets the overall strategy and policy of the Group and has put in place No.
of meetings 8 2 1 0 a well-defined organisational structure, with clearly understood lines of D. Whelan 8 - - - responsibility and delegation of authority to help ensure that strategies and T. W. Knight 8 - - - policies are effectively implemented and adhered to.
J. D. Greenwood 8 - - - Detailed operational procedures are adopted and followed by the Groups B. J. K. Dunn 7 - - - principal functional activities and are designed to incorporate key controls.
G. W. Foster 4 - - - These key controls are subject to periodic internal audit review to ensure that A. G. Thomas 7 2 1 0 they are being operated effectively and that they are suitable to manage any significant business risks faced by the Group.
Reports of internal audit reviews R. Lane-Smith 8 2 1 0 performed are made available to the Board and the Audit Committee.
D. M. M. Beever 7 2 1 0 George Foster resigned from the Board on 14 November 2003.
The risk management processes and internal controls are continuously reviewed and assessed by the Board, as part of their Executive responsibilities.
The Board Associate Board of Directors considers all significant aspects of internal control, including financial, operational Individual Executive Directors are responsible for the control of operational and compliance controls, as well as the risk management process adopted by the matters.
In order to effect day to day control of the Group, a second tier Board Group.
The review process is based on the reports made to the Board by the Risk was created in 1998 known as the Associate Board which currently Control Internal Audit Manager and the Associate Director of Retail Audit, as well comprises the Chairman and Executive Directors, together with 14 Associate as other ad hoc reports from Management.
The Board also takes into Directors who are senior executives of the Group, responsible for all key consideration any matters raised by the Audit Committee.
In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Group has operated a risk Whilst the Associate Directors have not been appointed to the office of management process throughout the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 and up Companies Act Director, their experience and knowledge ensure a strong link to the date of approval of this Annual report and Financial statements.
The process between the Groups strategy which is set by the Board and its implementation is designed to ensure that all significant risks to the achievement of the Groups across the business.
objectives are identified on a timely basis, assessed and managed effectively.
22 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:51 pm Page 23 Auditor independence Directors responsibilities The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate policies and United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial safeguards in place in order to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence statements for each accounting period which give a true and fair view of the is maintained.
state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Relations with shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with shareholders In preparing the Financial statements, the Directors are required to: in order to build a mutual understanding of its objectives.
The Board invites institutional shareholders and analysts to briefings after the announcement of the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Companys interim and full year results.
There is also regular dialogue with Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and individual institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
The Board encourages communication with private shareholders through publication of its State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject Annual and Interim results as well as the trading updates which are issued at the to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial time of the Annual General Meeting and after Christmas.
Meeting is used as an opportunity to gather the views of shareholders and to The Directors confirm that these Financial statements comply with the above answer the questions of both private and institutional investors on all issues requirements.
co. uk, also includes an area dedicated to The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which corporate information, including Annual and Interim reports, press releases, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the share price histories, Group news and certain Group policy documents.
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also Health and safety responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Operating in a safe manner, with due consideration for the health, safety and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud welfare of all employees and others who may be affected by our work activities, and other irregularities.
is vital to the success of our business and is something to which, as a Group, we are fully committed.
The Company has a website that contains up to date information on Group activities and published financial results.
The Directors are responsible for the Overall responsibility for health and safety rests with the Board of Directors.
maintenance and integrity of this website.
In order to effect day to day control of health and safety, JJB has an Associate Director of Group Health, Safety and Insurance, Lesley Lindley.
Going concern Lesley is an associate of the Institute of Occupational Health and Safety, the After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Institute of Risk Management and the Chartered Insurance Institute and that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for reports directly to the Board of Directors on all health and safety issues the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going together with all insurance matters.
concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
All retail stores and health club managers have now undergone a basic health and safety training course covering the most common health and safety issues in the workplace.
The course is approved by the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
A rolling program is in place to ensure that this training is kept up to date.
Further training is currently being considered for more senior retail and Leisure Division management and is demonstrative of our ongoing commitment to health and safety.
Distribution Centre managers have recently undertaken an Institute of Occupational Safety and Health - Managing Safely course, to ensure the competence of those managers in contributing to the overall safety of the Distribution Centre environment.
23 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:51 pm Page 24 This brings a grand total of over 1 million raised through JJB since the campaign began in 1999.
