Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for financial reporting, internal control and audit.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
The group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Directors and the Board The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board met eight times in the year and delegated specific responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
The board reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors, in respect of board procedures.
The board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Following the retirement of Mr C R N Clark at the companys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 20th July 2004, half of the board, excluding the Chairman, will comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Chairmans other commitments are disclosed on page 12.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly the independent non-executive directors, is able to make an effective contribution.
He monitors, with assistance from the Company Secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
Mr C D Mackay was appointed Senior Independent Director upon the retirement of Mr H R Jenkins on 16th July 2003.
The role of nonexecutive directors is to enhance the independence and objectivity of the boards deliberations and decisions.
All non-executive directors are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 12 and 13, and have direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made with minimum disruption.
The board annually reviews the senior managers and their succession and development plans.
Committees of the Board The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
It is also responsible for the executive management of the groups business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets at least monthly.
It comprises the executive directors and four senior executives of the company.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
The Committee meets quarterly and, since the retirement of Mr H R Jenkins on 16th July 2003, is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 32.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on the appointment of new directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr H M P Miles and comprises the Chairman and all the independent non-executive directors.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on behalf of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the independent nonexecutive directors.
The Committee meets at least four times per year.
The Chairman attends by invitation.
The Chief Executive also attends by invitation except when his own performance and remuneration are discussed.
Attendance at board and board committee meetings in 2003 04 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 3 1 3 H M P Miles 8 8 5 6 112 4 3 3 3 C R N Clark 8 8 6 1 4 3 N A P Carson 8 8 3 M B Dearden 8 8771143 P N Hawker 5 4 2 H R Jenkins 33331111 C D Mackay 8 8 7 7 1 143 D W Morgan 8 8 L C Pentz 5 5 3 J N Sheldrick 8 8 4 I C Strachan 8 7 7 6 1 1 4 4 A M Thomson 8 7 7 7 1 1 4 4 R J W Walvis 88771143 1 Mr Miles ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee and the MDRC on 25th November 2003.
3 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
