Wilfred Edmunds Lincs Free Press W Heart of England Newspapers Derbyshire Times W Harborough Mail W Banbury Guardian W Buxton Advertiser W Melton Times W Banbury Citizen F Ripley & Heanor News W Grantham Journal W Rugby Advertiser W Ilkeston Advertiser W Rugby Review F Stamford Citizen F Matlock Mercury W Melton Citizen F Daventry Express W Eastwood & Kimberley Advertiser W Grantham Citizen F Leamington Courier Series W Chesterfield Express F Leamington Review F Chesterfield Advertiser F Lincolnshire Newspapers Kenilworth Weekly News W Alfreton & Ripley Echo F Lincoln Chronicle F Dronfield Advertiser F Boston Standard W SOUTH Bolsover Advertiser F Louth Leader W Portsmouth Publishing & Printing High Peak Courier F Sleaford Standard W The News Portsmouth E Ilkeston Shopper F Skegness Standard W Bognor Guardian Series F Eastwood Shopper F Market Rasen Mail W Guardian Homefinder F Belper News W Horncastle News W Chichester, Bognor Regis Peak Times F Lincolnshire Citizen F and Midhurst & Petworth Observer W Eckington Leader F Ems Valley Gazette F Buxton Times F Anglia Newspapers Hayling Islander F Bury Free Press W Portsmouth Journal Series F North Notts Newspapers Suffolk Free Press W Petersfield & Bordon Post W Hucknall Dispatch W Diss Express W West Sussex Gazette W Worksop Guardian W Newmarket Journal W Worthing Advertiser F Mansfield Chad W Haverhill Echo W Shoreham Herald W Mansfield & Ashfield Observer F Bury Citizen F Worthing Guardian F Alfreton Chad F Littlehampton Gazette W Ashfield Chad W SOUTH MIDLANDS Worthing Herald W Dinnington Guardian F Northamptonshire Newspapers Retford Guardian F Chronicle & Echo E T. R. Beckett Worksop Trader F Northants Evening Telegraph E Hastings Observer W Retford & Bawtry Trader F Northampton Mercury F Bexhill Observer W Dinnington & Maltby Trader F Northants Citizen F Rye & Battle Observer W Northants on Sunday F Eastbourne Herald W South Yorkshire Newspapers Eastbourne Gazette Doncaster Free Press W Premier Newspapers inc. Hailsham and Seaford Gazettes W Doncaster Advertiser F Milton Keynes Citizen F Hastings and Bexhill News F South Yorkshire Times W MK Review F Eastbourne Advertiser F Goole, Thorne & Howden Courier F Leighton Buzzard Citizen F Epworth Bells W Leighton Buzzard Observer W Sussex Newspapers Gainsborough Standard W Tuesday Citizen F West Sussex County Times W Gainsborough News F Mid Sussex Times W Central Counties Newspapers Crawley Observer W EAST MIDLANDS Bucks Herald W Horsham Advertiser F East Midlands Newspapers Buckingham & Winslow Advertiser W Mid Sussex Citizen F Peterborough Evening Telegraph E Hemel Gazette W Weekend Herald F Peterborough Citizen F Bucks Advertiser F Sussex Express W Peterborough on Sunday F Bicester Review F Town Crier West Cambridgeshire Series F Hemel Herald Express F Fenland Citizen F Lynn News W Bedfordshire Newspapers Norfolk Citizen F Luton Herald & Post F Luton News W Welland Valley Newspapers Bedfordshire Times & Citizen F Stamford Mercury W Biggleswade Chronicle W Spalding Guardian W Dunstable Gazette W E - Evening paid-for newspaper W - Weekly paid-for newspaper M - Morning paid-for newspaper F - Free newspaper Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200435 Websites by Division SCOTLAND maltontoday.
co. uk EAST MIDLANDS SOUTH falkirktoday.
co. uk JP VENTURES classifiedgold.
com NORTH NORTH MIDLANDS tmxnews.
net SOUTH YORKSHIRE SOUTH MIDLANDS dirtbikerider.
co. uk GROUP SITES wetherbytoday.
co. uk Johnston Press plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the At least one Board meeting each year Committees, these are chaired by principles of Corporate Governance is wholly devoted to strategy and to the Mr P E B Cawdron, who is a chartered contained in the Combined Code on development of a plan for the long term accountant, and Mr R G Parry respectively.
Corporate Governance which is appended growth of the Group.
This is reviewed and to the Listing Rules of the Financial discussed as appropriate at the other Board Attendance Services Authority and for which the Board Board meetings held during the year.
During 2004, every director attended all is accountable to shareholders.
meetings with the exception that Mr H C In addition to the normal agenda at Board M Johnston was unable to attend the Statement of Compliance with meetings, which is described below, the September meeting.
In advance of the The Code of Best Practice directors consider one operational or formal Board meeting in September, led by The Company has complied throughout special topic at each meeting.
During the the Senior Independent Director, the Nonthe year with the Provisions of The Code last twelve months this has included Executive Directors met and, as part of the set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code circulation of daily newspapers, future agenda of that meeting, appraised the on Corporate Governance issued by the printing press requirements, editorial performance of the Chairman.
The Board Financial Reporting Council in July 2003. policy, market research, electronic has also met during the year without the publishing and human resource trends Executive Directors being present.
Statement of Application of The and issues.
Principles of Good Governance The meetings of the Remuneration, The Company has applied The Principles Board Meeting Agenda Audit and Nomination Committees were of Good Governance set out in Section 1 The Board receives a formal schedule attended by all members either personally of the Combined Code as reported above.
of matters specifically reserved to it for or by telephone.
Further explanation of how the Principles decision, such as future strategy, have been applied is set out below and, acquisitions and disposals, capital Board Balance in connection with directors remuneration, expenditure, trading and capital budgets Of the Companys current eleven in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board Directors, three are Executive and the considers monthly reports from the Chief remainder Non-Executive, of whom five Board Effectiveness Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer are regarded as independent, excluding The Board considers that it has shown its and Chief Operating Officer and Minutes the Chairman.
commitment to leading and controlling the of the Board are circulated to all Board Company by meeting nine times in the members.
It has also made the Company Other than the Chairman, those who are year, but can meet when necessary for Secretary responsible to the Board for the regarded as non-independent are Mr F P any matters which may arise.
The timeliness and quality of information.
M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston, who Remuneration Committee met on five have significant shareholdings in the occasions and the Audit and Nomination Board Responsibilities Company and have previously served the Committees three times each.
The Board acknowledges the division of Group in an executive role.
It is the view of responsibilities for running the Board and the Board that such circumstances do not The Board also sets the strategic aims and managing the Companys business with lessen the value of the contributions made objectives of the Group, ensuring that the Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive Chairman, by these two Non-Executive Directors.
Group has sufficient financial and human Mr P E B Cawdron as Senior Independent resources to meet its objectives.
The Director and Mr T J Bowdler as the The Board determines that Lord Gordon of Board also sets the Groups values and Companys Chief Executive Officer.
Strathblane is independent despite serving standards and ensures that its obligations on the Board for nine years in April 2005. to its shareholders and others are Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address He is highly respected for his wealth of understood and met.
Management are any concerns that any shareholder may media experience and his totally impartial responsible for the application of the aims have, which have not been resolved through and professional approach to his role.
and objectives on a day-to-day basis, the normal communication channels of the He plans to retire from the Board at the monitoring the financial achievements Chairman or Executive Directors.
2007 Annual General Meeting when he of the business.
The Board reviews the will be 70. performance of management in meeting Until the Annual General Meeting, the the agreed objectives and goals, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee At least half the Board, excluding the plans the succession of key executives, is Lord Gordon of Strathblane, when he Chairman, comprises Non-Executive and determines appropriate remuneration will be succeeded by Mr S J Waugh.
Directors determined by the Board to be levels.
With regard to the Audit and Nomination independent.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200437 Corporate Governance Continued Nomination Committee Information and Professional a presentation from the local managing The Nomination Committee is chaired Development director and a tour of the business.
by Mr R G Parry, and also comprises The Chairman has arranged a detailed Individual directors attend a range of Mr P E B Cawdron and Lord Gordon of induction process for the new Directors, seminars presented by professionals Strathblane.
Reporting to the Board, its including meetings and discussions with throughout the year.
duty is to seek suitably skilled and advisers and senior management where experienced candidates, with sufficient appropriate, together with the preparation of Board Re-election time to devote to the role, as Nona full induction pack and external courses.
It is the policy of the Board that all directors Executive Directors and to oversee all are subject to re-election at the first Annual Board appointments.
All Board members have access to General Meeting after their appointment independent advice on any matters and thereafter every three years.
The terms of reference of the Committee relating to their responsibilities as directors are displayed on the Companys website and as members of the various The Chairman has, following the formal in the Investor Relations section.
The Company evaluation process described above, Secretary is available to all directors and considered the performance of the The Board evaluation process, conducted he is responsible for ensuring that all directors subject to election and rein the early part of 2004, highlighted two Board procedures are complied with.
election at the 2005 Annual General issues relating to the composition of the Meeting and is satisfied that the Board.
The first was a reduction in the Board Performance Evaluation individuals performance continues to be newspaper publishing experience within During the last year, the Board has effective and that they have demonstrated the Non-Executive Directors following the conducted a rigorous evaluation of its own a clear commitment to the role.
retirement of Sir Harry Roche, and the performance.
This involved the completion second was the need to consider another of an assessment questionnaire by all Financial Reporting Executive Director.
These two matters were directors covering the performance of the The Board has shown its commitment to referred to the Nomination Committee.
Board, individual directors and Board presenting appropriate information about Committees.
Other topics included the Companys financial position by The Committee met in the Summer of 2004 meetings, the provision of information, complying with non-mandatory statements to consider the balance of skills on the training and the overall effectiveness of the issued by the Accounting Standards Board at that time.
Its conclusion, based on Board.
There was a particular emphasis Board relating to the operating and the retirement of Sir Harry Roche and the this year on a scoring system for financial review disclosures which are planned retirement of Lord Gordon in 2007, assessing individual, Committee and included in this Annual Report.
was that two new Non-Executive Directors Board performance.
The questionnaires were required and an additional Executive were submitted to the Company Secretary Directors Responsibilities Director.
The Committee prepared a detailed who prepared a summary of the United Kingdom company law requires the brief which was approved by the Board.
conclusions which was presented and Directors to prepare accounts for each External consultants were appointed to seek discussed at the Board meeting in January financial year which give a true and fair view suitable candidates based on the agreed 2005.
Separately, the Secretary produced of the state of affairs of the Company and brief who were interviewed by the a report summarising any individual of the Group at the end of the year and of Committee.
The recommended candidate recommendations for the consideration of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
for one of the Non-Executive posts, the Chairman.
This was followed up by In preparing those accounts, the Directors Mr L Hinton, met the whole Board and was meetings as appropriate with individual are required to: appointed a Non-Executive Director on directors.
He will retire at the Annual select suitable accounting policies and General Meeting and will be seeking election.
Training is undertaken as required during then apply them consistently: The search continues for another Nonthe year.
The feedback from the recent make judgements and estimates that Executive Director with the required skill set.
questionnaires will assist in the training plan are reasonable and prudent: and for the forthcoming year.
The Board state whether applicable accounting The Board evaluation process in early arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to standards have been followed.
2005 identified unanimous support for the visit the Groups principal locations at appointment of Mr Cammiade as an certain intervals to discuss the operations After making enquiries, the Directors have a Executive Director and he was appointed with local management.
In addition, at least reasonable expectation that the Company on 16 March 2005.
He will retire at the one Board meeting is held at one of the and the Group have adequate resources to Annual General Meeting and will be Groups centres where the Board receives continue in operational existence for the seeking election.
Johnston Press plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
