The Board is accountable to the companys shareholders for maintaining Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions standards of corporate governance.
The Board considers that the company of the companys articles of association, to retire and seek election by has complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions set shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The articles of association out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in 1998.
In July 2003 the of the company require each director to be subject to re-election at intervals Financial Reporting Council published the new Combined Code on Corporate of no more than three years.
Governance following the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non executive directors.
The Board has revised the companys corporate The Board has delegated certain authority to the following committees.
governance arrangements in the light of this.
The company is currently Each committee has formal terms of reference, which are available on in compliance with its provisions.
request from the company secretary or on the corporate governance section of the companys website at www.
The following is an explanation of how the company applies the current Combined Code.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Chaired by the chief executive and comprising the executive directors THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS and the chairman, it has delegated authority to supervise the executive The Board meets at least six times each year and more frequently where and operational management of the company.
The committee usually considered appropriate or where business needs require.
informal meetings of the non executive directors are held when required.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and the AUDIT COMMITTEE requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated widely Ken Jackson was chairman of the audit committee for the period reported.
throughout the senior management of the group.
He resigned as chairman on 1 June 2004 but continues to be a member of the committee.
Christopher Fisher was appointed to the committee on The Board determines the groups strategic objectives and key policies, and 24 September 2003 and as its chairman on 1 June 2004.
The other member approves the business plans for each group company, interim and final of the committee is Derek Roberts.
John Napier was a member of the financial statements, recommendations of dividends, significant investment committee until 24 September 2003.
All three members of the audit and major new business proposals, as well as significant organisational committee are independent non executive directors.
The external auditors, matters and corporate governance arrangements.
The Board is also the Head of Internal Audit and the Company Secretary attend all meetings.
responsible for establishing and reviewing the groups system of internal The Group Finance Director usually attends by invitation.
control and risk management, and reviewing its effectiveness.
The roles of the Board, the chairman and the chief executive are formally set out and The audit committees key tasks include: agreed by the Board.
There are clear levels of delegated authority, which to review and monitor the integrity of the interim and annual enable management to take decisions in the normal course of business.
financial statements: to review the groups system of internal control, including financial, During the year a formal performance evaluation of the Board, its operational, compliance and risk management control: committees and its directors was undertaken.
The process involved the to oversee the companys relationship with the external auditors, agree completion by each director of both a self evaluation and an evaluation of the nature and scope of the audit and review the independence and the performance and effectiveness of the Board as a whole and individual objectivity of the external auditors: directors, individual discussions between each director and the chairman, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
and meetings of the Board and the non executive directors to consider issues arising from the evaluation process and to identify and implement The company has adopted an auditor independence policy which establishes appropriate action.
procedures and guidance under which the companys relationship with its external auditors is governed so that the audit committee is able to satisfy Appropriate briefing and training is available to directors on, and subsequent itself that there are no factors which may, or may be seen to, impinge upon to, their appointment.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take the independence and objectivity of the audit process.
independent professional advice at the companys expense in furtherance of their duties in relation to Board or committee matters.
Directors have direct The key features of the policy are: access to the group company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that clear accountability of the auditors to the audit committee and the Board procedures are followed.
The directors receive full and timely access to chairman of the Board of the company: all relevant information, including a monthly Board pack of operational and the audit committee considers annually its recommendation to financial reports.
Direct access to key executives is encouraged.
re-appoint the auditors: the auditors are required to disclose the safeguards and steps taken The Board comprises a chairman, two executive directors and five non to ensure independence and objectivity: executive directors.
Christopher Fisher, Ken Jackson, David Salkeld and Derek rotation of audit partners and appropriate restrictions on appointment Roberts are considered by the Board to be independent of management and of employees of the auditors: free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere specific restrictions and procedures in relation to the allocation of non with the exercise of their independent judgements.
Derek Roberts is the audit work to the auditors, which is controlled and monitored by the senior independent director.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are audit committee.
separate and held by different people, John Napier and Kevin Whiteman respectively.
John Napier met the independence criteria of the Combined Code on his appointment, although he subsequently served in an interim executive capacity, which he relinquished in September 2002.
31 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board receives reports from executive directors following meetings with Details of the membership and role of the remuneration committee are investors.
Formal reports of investor feedback are presented to the Board included in the directors remuneration report on page 33. following the interim and annual results presentations.
An investor relations report is presented to the Board each month.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Derek Roberts was chairman of the nomination committee for the period INTERNAL CONTROL reported.
He resigned as chairman on 1 June 2004 but continues to be a The Board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for member of the committee.
John Napier was appointed as chairman of the reviewing its effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, nomination committee on 1 June 2004.
The other members are Ken Jackson evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group and this has and David Salkeld.
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, The main functions of the committee are: and social, environmental and ethical risks fall within the scope of this to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, the process.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk audit committee and the remuneration committee and make of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, recommendations to the Board with regard to necessary adjustments: not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the to prepare a role and capabilities statement for the appointment of financial year, material joint ventures have been dealt with as part of the a chairman and to identify and nominate candidates for the approval group for the purposes of applying the guidance.
of the Board: to provide advice and recommendations to the Board in respect of The group has comprehensive and well defined control policies with clear appointments of other directors.
structures, delegated authority levels and accountabilities.
There is a group procedure governing appraisal and approval of business development and ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY COMMITTEE investment expenditure.
Post completion reviews are required on significant Comprising the chairman and chief executive, it recommends to the Board business development projects and material investment expenditure.
appropriate environmental policies and procedures.
It is responsible for the publication of the environment and community report which is The groups risk management process aims to be comprehensive, systematic available on the internet at www.
and continuous, and based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The key features of the process include the following: BOARD ATTENDANCE The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, audit, The main risks facing the group are identified and recorded in a strategic remuneration and nomination committees held during the year, and the risk register together with the control mechanisms applicable to each risk.
attendance of each director out of possible attendances.
These are collated from risk registers maintained by individual businesses.
There is clear allocation of management responsibility for risk BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION identification, recording, analysis and control.
NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 8 4 2 0 The audit committee generally meets four times each year and reviews JOHN NAPIER 8 8 2 2 the effectiveness of the systems which are in place and reports CHRISTOPHER FISHER 6 6 2 2 to the Board.
KEN JACKSON 8 8 4 4 2 2 A risk management forum, chaired by the financial controller, has DEREK ROBERTS 8 8 4 4 2 2 been established with formal terms of reference comprising senior DAVID SALKELD 8 8 2 2 management from key disciplines and operating companies.
It advises RICHARD SCHMIDT 6 7 and assists operational managing directors and the Board in the MARTIN TOWERS 8 8 implementation of the risk management process and monitors risk KEVIN WHITEMAN 8 8 on behalf of the Board.
It reports to the audit committee.
Business units are required to report annually on principal business risks COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS and the operation of control mechanisms.
Shareholders have direct access to the company via the investor relations The internal audit department provides objective assurance and advice on section of its website at www.
com and its free shareholder risk management and control, and monitors the risk management process.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well internal control.
It has received the reports of the audit committee and has as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
All conducted a formal annual review covering all controls including financial, shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the companys annual operational and compliance controls and risk management, in accordance general meeting and the company will make a presentation at the meeting with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code to highlight the key business developments.
The chairmen of the audit, issued in September 1999. remuneration and nominations committees will be available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
32 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
