Employee involvement The Board continues to place emphasis on high standards of customer care and service by each operating company.
The commitment of employees to this principle is crucial, and each operating company has developed channels of communication to help people to expand their knowledge of, and involvement with, the Group.
These channels include attitude surveys, briefing groups, internal magazines and newsletters that report on business performance and objectives, community involvement and other issues.
Kingfishers intranet systems are also used to communicate results announcements to employees throughout the Group and to distribute information about other important business developments.
To supplement our existing communication vehicles within each business, the Kingfisher European Forum was established and held its first meeting in 2003.
The Forum provides for information and consultation with employee representatives from Group businesses in EU countries on specified transnational business issues affecting those countries.
Training and links with the educational sector reinforce the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
Employees are also represented on the trustee board of the Groups pension arrangements.
All UK employees are entitled to participate in the Groups long-standing Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme ShareSave, regardless of number of hours worked, provided they meet certain service conditions.
In addition, international ShareSave plans operate along similar lines to the UK scheme, but taking account of different tax and legal requirements in each country.
Equal opportunities Kingfisher is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment, and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies that are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into, and progression within the Group, which is determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competence.
Kingfisher is a founder member of the Business in the Community Now campaign designed to increase the opportunities available for women in the workplace.
Progress has been made in a number of areas, such as training, parental leave provisions and the employment of mature workers.
The Group will continue to build upon and introduce initiatives in this area.
Group companies give full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled people wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Employees who become disabled are given every opportunity and assistance to continue in their employment or to be trained for other suitable positions.
Charitable donations and corporate social responsibility The Company and its subsidiaries made contributions to community assistance projects worth an estimated 1.1 million 2003: 1.3 million, of which 0.5 million 2003: 0.7 million were payments specifically for charitable purposes.
Support was given in cash, in kind or by the donation of time by employees.
Projects supported ranged from community training programmes to tree planting and environmental regeneration schemes, and from supporting handicapped sports people to working with disabled and underprivileged children.
In addition, employees undertook a wide range of charitable fund-raising activities.
The Group continues to make progress in reducing the environmental impact of its activities and products.
Further details can be found in Kingfishers Annual Review 2004 and in the publications Kingfishers plan for corporate social responsibility, How green is my kitchen?
and Growth, Returns... And Responsibility, copies of which are available on request online at www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Supplier payment policy The Company does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers but agrees specific terms with each of them, and then pays in accordance with those terms.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2003 shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum number of 233,210,664 ordinary shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 January 2004 the directors had not used this authority.
6 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Major shareholders As at 5 April 2004, the Company had been notified of the following major interests as defined in Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 in the Companys shares: Company Number of Percentage of issued shares held share capital held as at 5 4 2004 ABN AMRO Equities UK Limited 76,059,786 3.26% Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 75,617,621 3.24% Barclays plc 98,949,264 4.24% The Capital Group Companies Inc and its subsidiaries 128,206,655 5.50% Legal & General Investment Management 82,093,131 3.52% Lehman Brothers International Europe 79,558,203 3.41% M&G Investment Management Ltd account The Prudential Assurance Company Ltd 74,051,842 3.17% M&G Investment Management Ltd account Prudential plc 87,690,640 3.76% By Order of the Board Helen Jones Company Secretary 16 March 2004 and 5 April 2004 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 Combined Code statement Kingfisher recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
During the year ended 31 January 2004, it complied with the requirements of the Combined Code as it then applied, including the reduction of the notice period for directors service contracts to 12 months for all directors from August 2003.
The principles of good governance adopted by Kingfisher have been applied in the following way: Board of directors Kingfishers Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, five other independent non-executive directors, the Chief Executive and three other executive directors.
Their biographies and details of Committee memberships, which can be found on pages 2 and 3, illustrate the directors range of experience, which is intended to ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The Company has an identified Senior Independent Director, namely John Nelson, the Deputy Chairman.
Each director receives appropriate training.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and is collectively responsible for the strategic direction of the Group.
All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, information that enables them to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues discussed.
The Board has completed a further independent review of its performance by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
These reviews examine the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate governance and the operation and content of its meetings.
During the year to 31 January 2004, the Board met 11 times to deal with regular business and a further 14 times principally to approve periodic trading statements or in connection with the demerger.
The attendance record of individual directors at Board and Committee meetings is detailed below.
Board meetings Committee meetings Monthly Ad hoc Audit  Social Finance responsibility Number of meetings in year 11 14 5 10 3 2 24 Francis Mackay 11 10 5 10 3 6 Gerry Murphy 11 14 3 2 21 1 John Nelson 10 5 2 10 2 Phil Bentley 11 2 5 Ian Cheshire 11 5 1 11 Michael Hepher 11 2 5 9 Hartmut Krmer 11 2 2 Jean-Nol Labroue 6 2 1 Margaret Salmon 10 2 10 2 2 3 Bernard Thiolon 4 1 2 4 Helen Weir 11 13 20 Bill Whiting 11 2 2 1 Appointed to Audit Committee November 2003 2 Resigned 4 July 2003 3 Resigned 4 June 2003 4 Resigned 31 January 2004 The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for itself, which has been reviewed and updated during the year.
In addition the Board has established the following six standing committees with defined terms of reference.
The matters reserved and the committees terms of reference are published on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee comprises Phil Bentley Chairman, plus two other independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
This Committee provides an independent oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and financial reporting processes.
It receives and considers reports from both the internal and external auditors and approves the annual report and financial statements and the half year results announcement.
The Committee and the Board reviewed membership against the Combined Code as it will apply for the financial year ending 29 January 2005 the new Combined Code and concluded it was essential for proper control and in the interests of the shareholders for the Chairman non-executive of the Board to be a member of the Committee.
Each major operating business has its own audit committee, meetings of which are attended by both Kingfishers Director of Risk and Audit and the external auditors.
Nomination Committee comprises Sir Francis Mackay Chairman, plus two independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee considers and recommends appointments of new directors as and when necessary.
Remuneration Committee comprises John Nelson Chairman plus two other independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee advises the Board on the Companys executive remuneration policy and its costs, and is responsible for 8 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the financial year ended 31 January 2004
