The Laird Group PLC Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2004 The directors confirm that the Company has complied throughout the year with all of the main and supporting principles set out in section 1 of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 20 and 21.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
Mr M A Smith, the Deputy Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director, retired at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Mr D Morton who became the senior independent non-executive director on 7 May 2004 will retire at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and will be succeeded by Mr J B McDowall.
The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive.
During the year the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the senior non-executive director.
Prior to the appointment of Mr A J Reading and Mr A M Robb to the Board on 1 September 2004, the Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and agreed a description of the roles and capabilities for the respective appointments.
A number of external search agencies were evaluated, before selecting the one that was used in the non-executive director selection process.
A suitable induction process was provided to the two new appointees.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Nigel Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993.
Mr Keen fullled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from ofce.
Such rotation of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board also delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting.
All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and the entering into of loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders The Laird Group, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Companys objectives.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings.
The Companys stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides feedback which is reported to the Board.
In 2003 a formal survey, on a non-attributable basis, covering eighteen of the Companys larger shareholders was commissioned and this will be repeated in 2006.
Following presentations to analysts and major shareholders of the interim and full year results, condential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director make themselves available for meetings with shareholders.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and institutional shareholders and encourages them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting.
The chairmen of the various Board Committees are available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against or in abstention on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting they are published on the Companys website.
Copies of all the Companys press announcements are posted on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee With effect from 1 January 2004 the Audit Committee comprised Mr M A Smith, Sir Geoffrey Owen and Mr J B McDowall, with Mr Smith as Chairman of the Committee.
Following Mr Smiths retirement at the Annual General Meeting, Dr Spivey became a member of the Committee and Sir Geoffrey Owen who remains a member of the Committee chaired the meetings until the appointment of Mr A M Robb as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 September 2004, at which time Dr Spivey ceased to be a member of the Committee.
The Board ensures that at 25 The Laird Group PLC Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2004 least one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb.
The Audit Committee, which meets at least four times a year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs published financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls, and considers the scope and planning of internal and external financial audits and the findings of those audits.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the external auditors are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The Committee considers the appointment and terms of engagement of the external auditor and assesses the independence of the external auditor and reviews the auditors policy for the rotation of audit partners.
The Committee assesses annually the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit rms own internal quality control procedures.
The Committee also agrees the audit fee and recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Where there are sound commercial and practical reasons, Ernst & Young provide non-audit services.
For example, during the year Ernst & Young provided tax advice and undertook financial due diligence and regulatory compliance work, particularly in connection with the major acquisitions and the disposal which took place during the year.
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 2 on page 46.
The Committee recommends, through the Board, to the shareholders the election of the external auditors at the Annual General Meeting and the authority for the xing of their remuneration.
The Committee and the auditors meet formally without any executive directors present at least once a year.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and currently comprises Mr A J Reading and Mr J B McDowall.
The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board.
It reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration and Options Committees of the Board were merged with effect from 1 January 2004 into one committee.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr J B McDowall and currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the non-executive directors, met four times in 2004 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benets of the executive directors and the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2005, Mr McDowall will become the senior independent non-executive director and he will be succeeded as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by Mr A J Reading.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board shall not be the chairman of the Committee.
As permitted by the Combined Code, the Chairman, who fullled the independence criteria at the time of his appointment, is a member of the Committee and because the Board considers it essential that he be involved in setting remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings, and at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 30.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Performance of the Board During 2003 the Board commenced a formal internal process in the form of questionnaires, the results of which were discussed by the Board, for the evaluation of its performance.
During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees.
Following completion of independently supplied questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman led discussions to consider the Boards behaviours and processes.
Certain areas were identied for improvement or action.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon.
The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the performance of the executive directors.
Board attendance The Board had nine meetings during 2004.
During the year Mr McDowall was unable to attend one meeting and Mr Morton was unable to attend three meetings.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting.
There were five Audit Committee meetings during the year, with full attendance at each meeting.
Four meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held.
Mr Morton was unable to attend one meeting.
Three meetings of the Nominations Committee were held, at which there was full attendance.
Internal control The Laird Group PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses located overseas, as well as in the UK.
These activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the directors of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by The Laird Group Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with The Laird Group Board.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the directors of the subsidiaries.
The Groups executive directors, all of whom were based in the UK in 2004 are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of subsidiary companies and reporting to the Board thereon.
26 The Laird Group PLC Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2004 An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
Acquisitions during that period were subject to due diligence prior to their purchase and are required to adopt the Groups procedures thereafter.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
However, these systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the directors of subsidiary companies setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives.
These rules require approval for specic transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to the Groups executive directors.
As part of this process they are required to identify the key risks and opportunities that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities.
The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect The Laird Group as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations, as it considers necessary.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Drabble, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines all aspects of operational risk within the Group.
The RMG which met four times during the year reports to the Board.
The principal objectives of the RMG are to identify potential risks, physical exposure and business interruption issues associated with each operating companys business and their wider implications for the Group as a whole: to review business continuity planning and emergency response procedures: to develop contingency plans and to oversee the implementation of remedial actions where appropriate, and to continue to develop and ensure the implementation of best risk management practice throughout the Group and review the results of comprehensive self-assessment control reviews by subsidiary management.
The RMG also oversees Health, Safety and Environmental issues using external advisers to assist where appropriate.
Further details on the RMG are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 28 and 29.
The Audit Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs published financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of their audit, the external auditors, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
The auditors have confirmed that in their opinion the UK subsidiaries, and the Group, are complying with the Companies Act 1985 requirement to keep proper books and records.
