Corporate governance 39 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance The group is committed to high standards of During the period under review the chairman has Shareholders views are relayed to the board corporate governance and in accordance with this held, and continues to hold, no significant through face-to-face meetings, presentations and the company has complied, throughout the period commitments outside the company.
If shareholders or investors do under review, with the provisions set out in Mamsch is both the deputy chairman and the not wish to follow the usual methods of Section 1 of the Combined Code 2003 the senior independent non-executive director.
communication through the chairman, group chief Combined Code, with a few limited exceptions.
executive or group finance director, Helmut Where the company does not comply with the The board, which encompasses the audit, Mamsch the boards senior independent director Combined Code an explanation has been remuneration and nomination committees brings is available.
He and all other non-executive provided.
The Combined Code incorporates together a wide range of skills and experience and directors are regularly updated on shareholder and recommendations from the Higgs Report on is of an appropriate size to manage the company City matters through internal briefings and the corporate governance and the Smith Report in effectively.
Meetings of the board are held at least provision of external analysis reports.
respect of the conduct of audit committees.
Also, six times per year, of which at least two are held the company has complied with the Listing outside the UK.
This number of meetings is Directors roles and training Requirements of the UK Listing Authority and judged to be sufficient to discharge the boards The non-executive chairman liaises with the group Euronext, Amsterdam.
chief executive on strategic issues and manages the board and the AGM.
Board composition and structure Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of The company is headed by an effective and three years and are proposed for re-election in On 20 December 2004 the company announced objective board which is collectively responsible accordance with the terms of the companys the appointment of Jim McKenna as chief for setting the companys strategic aims as well as Articles of Association.
Roger Payne, who has operating officer.
This position was created as a its overall success.
The board leads the company been appointed a non-executive director since the result of the increasing size and complexity of the using a framework of prudent and effective last AGM, will be proposed for election at the business.
The group chief executive, Martin Read, controls, which enables strategy, budget and risks forthcoming AGM.
Roger Payne replaces Richard will focus more time on the mediumto long-term to be assessed and managed.
The companys North, who retired on 10 September 2004, as issues with executive committee members and on values and standards are set by the board and chairman of the audit committee.
The nomination strategic issues for the group generally.
All upheld with the assistance of the internal audit, committee, in accordance with the committees executive directors have a set of objectives.
quality assurance and risk management functions.
terms of reference and the companys Articles of At board meetings, the board reviews and Association, has also proposed Jim McKenna, All directors, on joining the company, undergo an considers both routine and ad hoc matters.
In Cor Stutterheim and Helmut Mamsch for reinduction programme and receive ongoing particular, the board considers and, where election.
Directors submitting themselves for reupdates to improve their knowledge and skills and necessary, debates the group chief executives election at the AGM have been subject to a formal enable them to discharge their duties.
Training report, which includes but is not limited to: performance evaluation.
They have demonstrated requirements remain subject to continuous review.
budgets and strategy their commitment to the company and have financial performance and forecasts performed effectively during the year.
Biographical The company secretary is responsible for corporate activities details for those directors seeking election or providing regulatory updates to the board or to human resources re-election at the 2005 AGM can be found on specific directors depending upon whether they shareholder, City and competitor matters.
Copies of the directors terms participate in individual board committees.
In and conditions of appointment are available on addition, the company secretary is also The board comprises six non-executive directors, request from the company secretary.
responsible for ensuring good information flows including the chairman and deputy chairman, and within the board and between senior three executive directors.
None of the nonCommunication with shareholders management and the non-executive directors.
executive directors have served on the board for The board takes the opportunity afforded by the more than nine years.
All non-executive directors AGM and meetings with institutional investors to Board performance are considered to be independent except for the ensure the companys objectives are widely The board is subject to an annual performance chairman, Cor Stutterheim, who although believed communicated and understood.
In 2003 the board was appraised using a to be independent in character and judgement by are welcomed to the AGM where developments two stage process.
The first phase involved each the board, is not deemed independent according in the business are explained and shareholders director completing a comprehensive to the Combined Code due to his previous have the opportunity to ask questions.
All questionnaire covering the performance of the position as executive chairman of CMG plc.
preliminary, final and interim results presentations board and its sub-committees.
The appointment of the chairman was approved to investors and industry analysts, together with by shareholders at the time of the merger other press releases, are published on the between Logica and CMG and his re-election will groups website.
Financial reporting is presented be sought at the forthcoming annual general in such a way as to provide a balanced and meeting AGM.
understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Corporate governance LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 40 Corporate governance Following completion of the questionnaire, Directors who are not members of a particular Such matters may include the approval of noninterviews were conducted between the noncommittee are able to attend that committees routine stock exchange announcements and the executive directors and the chairman meetings, if invited.
The minutes of all committees grant of employee share options.
Day-to-day accompanied by the company secretary.
In 2004 are sent, at their request, to those directors who management of the company is delegated to the a similar process was followed but with more are not a member of the committee.
focus on the performance of the non-executive committees, as well as directors individually, have directors, both individually and together, the means and resources to access independent Audit committee highlighting areas such as: professional advice at the companys expense.
The audit committee, comprising independent board objectives The company secretary acts as secretary to each non-executive directors, is chaired by Roger board composition board committee.
Payne and includes Angela Knight, George board committees Loudon and Wim Dik.
information coverage The board has written terms of reference and a communication schedule of matters which are reserved for the The board believes that, as a finance director of a logistics boards decision.
These terms of reference are FTSE 100 company, Roger Payne has recent and non-executive director assessment reviewed annually and a summary can be found relevant financial experience, as required by the board effectiveness.
Matters reserved for Combined Code.
the board include: Following the board assessment in late 2003 financial matters including operating budget and The committees terms of reference include tasks a report was prepared by the company strategic plan, interim and preliminary such as the review of the groups annual and secretary in conjunction with the chairman statements, dividend payments, capital interim financial statements, accounting policies and presented to the board.
Although the investment, acquisitions or divestments and any and internal management and financial controls.
results of the board evaluation were positive value of goodwill write-off relating to subsidiary It also considers the appointment and fees of the the following actions were taken to enhance company activities external auditors and discusses the audit scope the future operation of the board: approval of sales contracts of a material size and the findings arising from audits.
The logistics for board and committee meetings group policies or practices including committee is also responsible for monitoring and were reviewed to aid the management of the risk management, ethics and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys meetings, and environmental concerns internal audit function.
Regular updates from the formalisation of regular market and adoption of any significant change in companys quality assurance, risk management, regulatory updates.
accounting policies treasury and tax functions together with regular corporate administrative matters such as the updates on changes in accounting practices Results of the 2004 board appraisal will be size and composition of the board and its affecting the company are also provided to the presented to the board in early 2005. committees and authorisation levels audit committee.
annual report and accounts The performance review of the chairman was led the resolutions to be placed before shareholders The committee has approved and is responsible by the senior independent non-executive director, at an annual or extraordinary general meeting, for approving non-audit work to be undertaken by Helmut Mamsch, with other non-executive including any approval to be sought for the the companys auditors.
This process, which directors without the presence of the chairman or report of any sub-committees, and involves obtaining written approval from the audit executive directors.
In addition, the chairman all stock exchange circulars and committee, ensures auditor objectivity and meets with the non-executive directors, at least listing particulars.
In addition, it is once per year without the executive directors responsible for the companys internal confidential present.
All board directors who have served on Matters falling under the terms of reference are, disclosure policy, which allows staff to raise the board for a period in excess of six years were when required, dealt with at regular board concerns about possible improprieties.
This facility subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Where this is inappropriate the was introduced into the group in early 2004 and company secretary is responsible for ensuring therefore the company was compliant with Terms of reference board members are advised of the matter.
provision C3.4 of the Combined Code for only The company applies the principles of the Procedures for dealing with matters between part of the period under review.
Further details Combined Code through its own behaviour regular board meetings are detailed within the regarding the policy can be found in the corporate and implements best corporate governance boards terms of reference.
Following social responsibility statement on page 37. practice through the boards, and its consideration by the board certain matters may committees, terms of reference.
The terms be delegated to a committee of the board, The chairman of the committee meets at least of reference for each committee can be individual director or the executive committee.
three times a year with the external auditors, as found on the companys website.
does the audit committee itself.
The group chief executive, group finance director, group financial controller and internal auditor attend the meetings at the request of the committee.
Corporate governance 41 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Internal control Risk management External auditors The board is responsible for the groups system The board acknowledges that the group operates The external auditors contribute an additional of internal control and for reviewing its in a fluid and rapidly developing business independent perspective on the overall integrity of effectiveness.
The board has reviewed the environment.
Changes to the risk profiles in the those areas of the internal control system which effectiveness of the systems of internal control for business environment arise as a result of both the they have assessed in the course of their work, the accounting year and the period to the external challenges in a highly competitive and report their findings at each audit committee approval of the financial statements.
This review marketplace and through the internal development meeting.
The audit committee assesses the covered all material controls, including financial, of new products, management procedures and evidence provided to them through the various operational and compliance controls and risk systems.
Although risk management processes mechanisms and seeks to ensure that the risk management systems and is in accordance with are well established within the group, the risk management process adequately addresses all of the Turnbull guidance.
It should be understood management function was restructured during the the major risks to the group.
that such a system is designed to manage rather year to reflect the changing needs of the group.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Following a review, the board has now established Going concern business objectives, and provides reasonable a risk management and Cortex strategy The directors, having made enquiries, consider rather than absolute assurance against material committee RMCSC, which draws together the that the company and the group have adequate misstatement or loss.
previous risk management and Run LogicaCMG resources to continue in operational existence for Cortex committees.
Five practice panels covering the foreseeable future, and therefore it is The group operates a highly structured, the disciplines of delivery, operations, finance, appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in objectives-driven approach to fulfil its core human resources and sales and marketing preparing the financial statements.
purpose and goals in respect of sustained support this new committee.
The RMCSC, in profitability and growth.
The strategic objectives of conjunction with the five practice panels, is Nomination committee the group are encapsulated in a strategic plan, responsible for the regular evaluation of inherent The nomination committee, which comprises a developed by the executive committee and risks within the business and the identification of majority of independent non-executives, is chaired approved by the board, which addresses revenue controls to address them.
by Cor Stutterheim and also includes Martin and associated costs and necessary investment.
Read, Helmut Mamsch, Wim Dik and George The strategic plan then forms the basis of annual The board, through the RMCSC and audit Loudon.
There is a formal and transparent revenue and profit targets for the operating units committee, has reviewed the key business, procedure for new appointments as outlined in the in the group.
financial, operational and compliance risks facing nomination committees terms of reference.
The the group, prioritised their significance and committee evaluates the skills and knowledge The research and development and capital determined current procedures and processes required on the board and in light of this prepares investment programmes are subject to a formal to detect and address them.
Risk was assessed a description of the role and capabilities required review procedure requiring rigorous qualification with reference to the achievement of the for a particular appointment.
In 2004 the criteria to be met prior to each instance of material groups business objectives.
The continuous nomination committee employed an external investment.
Evaluation and post-investment monitoring of strategic and operational risks are consultancy to provide a shortlist of potential appraisals are performed by reference to detailed the responsibilities of the board and line applicants for the non-executive audit committee business plans.
After due and careful consideration including interviews by the chairman, group chief The monitoring regime established by the board, Operational guidance on the appropriate executive, group finance director and other nonthrough which the performance indicators approach to risk is provided through clearly executive directors, Roger Payne was appointed derived from the strategic and annual plans are defined delegation of responsibilities and to this position.
During this process the committee regularly interrogated, ensures that events which authorisation levels, and by clearly documented ensured that the proposed director had sufficient pose significant risk to the attainment of the internal procedures that are set out in core skills and time to discharge his duties, if groups objectives or significant control lapses operating procedures common to all areas of appointed.
The nomination committee was are communicated to senior management the group.
The internal audit and quality convened on five occasions during 2004.
Other through a process of rapid escalation.
Unit assurance functions perform regular audits directors are entitled to attend at the invitation of performance is evaluated on a monthly basis, and are part of line managements risk the committee.
and includes addressing identified control management responsibilities.
weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of The company has built upon a formalised previously recommended corrective actions.
leadership and succession planning programme for the board and senior management so to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and the board.
Corporate governance LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 42 Corporate governance Remuneration committee In addition to the AGM, which all board members Statement of directors responsibilities The remuneration committee, which meets at attended, there were a further eight subThe directors are required by United Kingdom least five times a year, comprises independent committee meetings held during the year company law to prepare financial statements for non-executive directors and is chaired by Angela attended by two or more directors.
These subeach financial year, which give a true and fair view Knight.
Its other members are Helmut Mamsch committee meetings were held to deal with such of the state of affairs of the group and company and George Loudon.
Its key role is to determine matters as granting options under the groups as at the end of the financial year and of the profit the companys senior executive remuneration share option schemes and the formal and cash flows of that year.
In preparing those policy and levels of remuneration for the appointment of Roger Payne.
financial statements, the directors are required to: companys executive committee, the highest paid select suitable accounting policies and then senior management, company secretary and External appointments apply them consistently head of internal audit.
Directors remuneration is Executive directors are permitted by the company make judgements and estimates that are set at the level necessary to attract and retain the to accept and maintain up to two non-executive reasonable and prudent directors needed to run the company successfully, appointments at any one time.
In compliance with state whether applicable accounting standards this level being set independently by a formal, provision A.
4.5 of the Combined Code, it is the have been followed, subject to any material transparent procedure.
The groups remuneration companys policy that individuals will, in future, be departures disclosed and explained in the policy and full details of directors remuneration unable to commence a second non-executive financial statements are set out on pages 43-50.
In addition, the appointment with a UK FTSE 100 company.
prepare the financial statements on a going remuneration committee oversees the operation Martin Read has two non-executive appointments concern basis unless it is inappropriate to of the companys employee share schemes.
Both of these presume that the group and company will The group chief executive, human resources appointments were effective prior to publication of continue in business director non-board member and professional the revised Combined Code.
be responsible for the maintenance and integrity advisors are invited to attend the committee of the companys website, and meetings at the invitation of the committee.
Fees earned by executive directors are retained by acknowledge that legislation in the UK Watson Wyatt LLP are the independent advisors the relevant director, which reflects the personal concerning the preparation and dissemination of to the remuneration committee.
risk assumed in such appointments.
This financial statements may differ from legislation in remuneration is fully disclosed in the relevant other jurisdictions.
Board attendance companys annual report and accounts.
The following table shows the attendance of The directors confirm that they have complied directors at scheduled meetings of the board with the above requirements in preparing the and audit, remuneration and nomination financial statements.
The directors are responsible committees during 2004. for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, Board Remuneration Audit Nomination the financial position of the group and company committee committee committee and enable them to ensure that the financial Maximum number statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
A of meetings director 7 735 They are also responsible for the groups system Cor Stutterheim 7 1 N A 5 of internal control and for safeguarding the assets Martin Read 6 4 3 5 of the group and company and for taking Jim McKenna 6 N A N A 1 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Seamus Keating 7 N A 3 1 of fraud and other irregularities.
B Ian Taylor 42 N A 1 Helmut Mamsch 6 6 N A 4 By order of the board Wim Dik 6 N A 2 4 Angela Knight 7732 P Weaver FCIS George Loudon 6524 Company secretary C Richard North 5 N A 3 3 1 March 2005 D Roger Payne 0 N A 0 N A In attendance by invitation of the committee.
A Comprises six regular meetings together with one meeting held at short notice.
B Ian Taylor retired on 30 June 2004.
C Richard North resigned on 10 September 2004.
D Roger Payne was appointed on 10 September 2004.
