Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 9 Corporate Governance The Combined Code financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place This report has been prepared by reference to The Combined Code to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
It has a formal on Corporate Governance published in June 1998 the Old Code.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of However, additional disclosures are made in compliance with the which are: new version of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the New Code.
The review of appointments to and removals from the board and these corporate governance disclosures required to be made by the executive office auditors solely relates to those matters required to be disclosed and approval of budgets, raising of finance through issues of shares or audited under the Old Code.
entry into borrowings or other obligations, declarations of dividends The Company has during the year to 30 September 2004 and to the reviewing the operating and financial position of the Company date of this report complied with all the provisions affecting the approval of accounts and reports comprising the financial companies known as section 1 of the Old Code.
The Company has results of the Group, and other documents for external publication also complied with the equivalent provisions of the New Code, save approval of the treasury and other risk management policies of the that following the death of Sir Alastair Morton on 1 September 2004, Group the board comprised an independent non-executive chairman, three approval of significant contracts and commitments, including independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
acquisitions or realisations of assets The New Code suggests that at least half the board, excluding the responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Company is currently recruiting two additional independent directors.
Whilst all directors have equal responsibility for managing the Companys affairs, it is the role of executive management to run the The purpose of this report is to explain how the Company has business within the parameters laid down by the board and to applied the principles of good governance so far as these relate to produce clear and accurate reports to enable the board to assess listed companies.
These cover four subject areas: their performance.
The executives make full use of the expertise and experience that the non-executive directors bring from their business directors careers.
directors remuneration accountability and audit, and The chairman routinely holds discussions with non-executive relations with shareholders.
directors without the executive directors being present.
Directors All directors are free to express their views, and to ask that these be The Board recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Company is led and controlled by the board of directors which currently has eight members, comprising an independent nonThe Company maintains, at its expense, a directors and officers executive chairman, three non-executive directors, all of whom the liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain board judges to be independent, and four executive directors.
circumstances for the benefit of directors and other Group personnel.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained in the directors biographies on page 18 of the annual review.
As noted Chairman and chief executive above, the Company is currently seeking two additional independent The roles of chairman and chief executive are clearly separated and directors.
The chairman, who is an independent director, is responsible for leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness The board comprised ten directors until 26 April 2004, five of whom and setting its agenda, and for ensuring that there is effective excluding the chairman were non-executive, and nine directors until communication with all shareholders.
The chairman also facilitates 1 September 2004, four of whom excluding the chairman were the effective contribution of all directors, and ensures that there is a non-executive.
constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
The board meets regularly, normally on six occasions during the year and more frequently if necessary, including two meetings in South The role of the chief executive is to provide leadership to the Africa.
The board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction executive team in running the business and to develop proposals for and control of the Company: is the custodian of the Companys the board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgment.
strategic aims, vision and values: and ensures that the necessary 10 10 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Board balance and independence As policy, the board would not normally agree to an executive The board believes that it has sufficient members to contain an director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a appropriate balance of skills and experience, but is not so large as to FTSE100 Company, or the chairmanship of such a Company.
Upon the recruitment of the additional independent directors referred to above, the board believes it will be able to Information and professional development manage succession issues without undue disruption.
The structure The board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and composition was designed to provide a balanced board, with no and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All directors one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate the are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of decision taking.
the executive directors or management.
Certain of the executive directors are also directors of the principal operating subsidiaries, The board keeps the membership of its committees under review, to which provides them with further insight into the affairs of the Group.
ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
It is satisfied that all directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is The chairman ensures that all directors continually update their skills not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role.
The Company provides the Using the definition of independence contained in the Combined necessary resources for developing and updating all directors Code, the board judges all of the non-executive directors, including knowledge and capabilities, both on first appointment and the chairman, to be independent.
In addition to those serving at the subsequently as necessary.
This includes a full, formal and tailored date of this report, Edward Haslam served as an executive director induction programme, including when appropriate the opportunity of until 26 March 2004, Dr Sam Jonah, KBE served as a non-executive meeting a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
director until 26 April 2004 and Sir Alastair Morton served as a nonexecutive director until his death on 1 September 2004.
The board There is a procedure in place for directors to take independent judged Sir Alastair Morton to be independent but felt that under the professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the terms of the definition Dr Jonah could not be viewed as Companys expense.
In addition, board committees are provided independent, in view of his previous executive career with the Group.
with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional However, the board believes that independence is a state of mind support as they may require from time to time, to undertake and believed that during his tenure Dr Jonah demonstrated their duties.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary, Following the death of Sir Alastair Morton, Roger Phillimore has been who is responsible for information flows to the board, facilitating designated as the Senior Independent Director.
He is available to induction and assisting with professional development as required, shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the ensuring compliance with board procedure and applicable laws and normal channels has failed to resolve, or for which such contact regulation and advising the board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the company secretary is a board decision.
Appointments to the Board To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Performance evaluation appointment of new directors to the board, a Nomination Committee The board has evaluated its own performance, that of the board has been empowered.
Its work is more fully described in its report committees and of the individual directors.
To do so the chairman on page 27. sought views from board members in order to identify the consensus of opinions, which were then summarised to and approved by the Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
The purpose of the evaluation was to assess the the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken effectiveness of the board process, and whether each director to ascertain that they have sufficient time available to meet their continued to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to board and, where relevant, committee responsibilities.
As part of this their role.
There were no items arising from the review on which the process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on board felt the chairman should act.
appointment, undertake to update the board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for public inspection, and a sample letter of appointment is provided on the Companys website, www.
