24 24 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 Role of the audit committee terms of reference.
All of these views were summarised into a formal The audit committee is a formal committee of the board, and has report to the board by the chairman.
The committee separately powers delegated to it under the articles of association.
Its remit is discussed the effectiveness of the chairman of the committee set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the board.
These in his absence, which also formed part of the report to the board.
were reviewed during the year to incorporate the provisions of the There were no matters arising which the committee or board felt new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, including the necessitated change.
recommendations originally contained in the Smith Report.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Companys website, Composition of the audit committee www.
All independent directors, with the exception of the chairman of the board, are eligible to become members of the committee.
The The primary purposes of the audit committee are set out in its terms nomination committee will recommend any appointments or removals of reference and are: to the board, which is responsible for the composition of the to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and committee.
The committee has at least three members, all of whom announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing must be financially literate, and any two members form a quorum.
significant financial reporting judgements to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal The committee was comprised of the following members during the controls and risk management systems year and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and Michael Hartnall an independent director, who has been a review its material findings member of the committee since 8 May 2003 and its chairman from to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including 1 October 2003.
A chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was for 16 reviewing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring years until 2003 the finance director of Rexam plc, a multinational their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that manufacturer of consumer packaging where his responsibilities policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services included finance, internal control, risk management and corporate is appropriately applied.
He was also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the first version of the Combined Code in 1998.
The committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its The board has judged that he has the significant, recent and terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, relevant financial experience necessary to chair the committee seek information from any director or employee of the Group and Roger Phillimore an independent director and a member of the co-opt any resources including external professional assistance it audit committee since May 1998 sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
However, the committee has no Sir Alastair Morton until his death on 1 September 2004 an executive function and its primary objective is to review and independent director who had been a member of the audit challenge, rather than assume responsibility for any matters committee since May 1998. within its remit.
Peter Godsoe an independent director and chartered accountant who was appointed to the audit committee on Minutes of all meetings of the committee save those recording 23 September 2004. private discussions with either the internal or external auditors are circulated to all directors, and supplemented by a verbal update from Biographical details of each director are set out on page 18 of the the committee chairman at the next board meeting, identifying any annual review which accompanies this document.
matters in respect of which action or improvement is required, and making recommendations where appropriate.
The committee Each member receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other member of the committee or, in the case of the chairman, 17,500. interested parties by means of this report, and the committee In addition, Mr Hartnall receives a fee of 7,500 for attending chairman attends all general meetings of the Companys meetings of the Companys Risk and SHEC committee.
These fees shareholders to answer any questions on the committees activities.
are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 17 of this document.
The committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in November 2004.
To do so, members of the committee, the external auditors All members of the committee are provided with appropriate and members of the management team who assist the audit induction into the role of the committee and the operation of its committee in their work all provided their opinions on the terms of reference on first appointment.
Access to training is effectiveness of the committee, the flow of information, relationships provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to with management and advisors and the appropriateness of the discharge their duties.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 25 Meetings of the committee are attended by the chief executive, the of non-audit services to be provided by the external auditors: chief financial officer, the group financial controller and the company approval of the terms of the external auditors engagement letter: secretary who acts as secretary to the committee, none of whom review of the work of the internal auditors in the year to date and do so as of right.
The external auditors attend all committee their principal findings: receive an update on the work of the Risk meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with them to afford and SHEC committee and any material matters arising: review of the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
capital expenditure in the year to date: private meeting with the The internal auditors attend all committee meetings held in South internal auditors.
Africa and are similarly afforded private meetings with the committee.
May: approval of the letter of representation from management to Internal audit the external auditors relating to the interim accounts: receive a Throughout the year, Ernst & Young acted as internal auditors to report from the external auditors following their review of the interim Lonmin.
They provided no other material services to the Group.
accounts: assessment of any material exercises of judgement by A total of eighteen assignments were undertaken during the year management: review of the interim report including the accounts across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both and consider whether to recommend the same to the board: receive management and the audit committee.
Internal audit reports are an update on the work of the Risk and SHEC committee and any agreed with operational management and then delivered to the material matters arising: review of the Companys proposed ethical managing director of Lonmin Platinum and to the chief financial framework including the whistle-blowing arrangements in force: officer, with material findings and recommendations then private meeting with the external auditors.
summarised to the audit committee, who receive regular presentations from the internal auditors.
The audit committee September in South Africa : review of the effectiveness of the reviews the effectiveness of the internal auditors annually.
internal auditors: review of the work of the internal auditors and their principal findings: approval of the scope and focus of the internal External audit audit programme and internal audit fees for the forthcoming financial KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group year: further review and final confirmation of the external auditors throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in London and plan for the year end audit: receive an update on the work of the supported by a second audit partner based in Johannesburg.
Risk and SHEC committee and any material matters arising: review Non-audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $0.5 million, of the effectiveness of the audit committee, assessment of the equating to approximately 70% of the total Group audit fee, and relevance of its terms of reference and agreement of any relate solely to the provision of taxation advisory services and advice recommendations for change to the board: private meeting on accounting practice, including the transition to international with the internal auditors.
The committee, whose prior approval of non-audit services is generally required, is satisfied that the level November: approval of the letter of representation from of these fees are not material relative to the income of the audit management to the external auditors relating to the accounts: offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services receive a report from the external auditors following their review of provided is appropriate and in line with the Companys policies in the full year accounts: assessment of any material exercises of this area.
The audit committee appraised the qualifications, expertise judgement by management: consideration of the going concern and resources, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also statement: review of the annual reporting documents including the reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors before reaching accounts and consider whether to recommend the same to the the recommendation to the board that their re-election should be board: review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of proposed to shareholders.
the external auditors and formulation of a recommendation to the board as to whether or not their re-appointment should be proposed Activities of the audit committee to shareholders: review of the effectiveness of internal controls and The committee normally meets four times annually, and reports its risk management systems during the year prepared by material findings to the next board meeting.
The principal business of management: private meeting with the external auditors.
these meetings is: In addition to the routine business described above, the committee March in South Africa : review of matters arising from the prior year also undertook the following activities during the year and in the audit: approval of scope of the external auditors proposed review period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: of the interim accounts and the fees to be charged: approval of the Receiving a presentation from independent consultants on the scope and fees for the external audit of the full year accounts: review principles underlying the estimation and calculation of ore 26 26 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 resources and reserves, including an outline of applicable international standards: assessing the practices and procedures of Lonmin Platinum in this regard, including a review of how direct peers approach this subject.
A detailed review of the capital expenditure control environment, including an analysis of the basis of calculation of the hurdle rate applied in appraising projects.
A review of the Groups principal treasury policies, including the basis on which the currency of borrowings is determined.
Reviews of the principal risks facing the Group, including detailed consideration of the Companys policies and practice on HIV AIDS and the provision of anti-retroviral therapy, environmental risks, compliance with applicable law and the Companys tax compliance position.
Review of the financing of defined benefit pension schemes, including the provision to be made in connection with the closure of the SUITS pension scheme and the appropriate accounting treatment.
Receiving an update on relevant new accounting standards and the accounting treatment required for treasury shares: receiving a detailed update on the Companys planning for the move to International Accounting Standards.
Review of the strategy underlying the Companys risk financing and insurance arrangements.
Reviewing the circular to shareholders issued in connection with the investment in Incwala Resources and purchase of shares in our operating subsidiaries from the Impala Group.
Due to additional workload detailed above, the committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of during time meetings Committee member in office attended Michael Hartnall 5 5 Roger Phillimore 5 5 Sir Alastair Morton to 1 September 2004 3 2 Peter Godsoe from 23 September 2004 This report was approved by the board on 24 November 2004 Michael Hartnall Committee Chairman
