Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 27 Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 Role of the nomination committee Activities of the nomination committee The nomination committee is a formal committee of the board, and All recommendations for board appointments are made on merit and has powers delegated to it under the articles of association.
Its remit against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn up which is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of board in July 2002.
These are available from the Company, and the time commitment required.
Generally, the committee will engage displayed on its website, www.
executive search consultants to ensure objectivity.
The primary purpose of the committee is, in consultation with the During the year, in addition to other matters the committee chairman, to recommend any proposed changes to the composition considered the recruitment of a chief executive, required upon the of the board, and to instigate and manage the recruitment process.
An external executive search firm was employed and a global search undertaken, which resulted in a Composition of the nomination committee recommendation to the board of the appointment of Brad Mills.
Throughout the year and to the date of this report the committee comprised Roger Phillimore chairman and Peter Godsoe, both of To deal with these matters, the committee met five times during the whom are independent non-executive directors.
A quorum for a year, although a number of informal contacts also took place.
Four of meeting of the committee is two members.
In the event that one of these meetings were attended by both members, the fifth meeting the members of the committee has a conflict of interests, the was attended by Roger Phillimore and, at the request of the chairman will act as an alternate member.
committee due to Mr Godsoes absence, Sir John Craven.
Each member receives an annual fee of 5,000 for serving as a This report was approved by the Board on 24 November 2004 member of the committee or, in the case of the chairman, 7,500.
These fees are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 17.
Roger Phillimore The committee is supported by the services of the company Committee Chairman secretary, who acts as secretary to the committee, and it has full access to the chief executive and chairman of the board.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work, and to coopt such resources as it requires to fulfil its duties.
