24 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2004 The Board consists of the Chairman, six Non-Executive APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES Directors and four Executive Directors.
This provides This statement describes how the Company applies the a balance whereby no individual or small group can dominate principles contained within the Combined Code appended the Boards decision-making.
The Chairman of the Board to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Stephen Thomas is Chief Executive and is responsible for the executive leadership and co-ordination The Company has noted that the Financial Reporting Council of the Companys business activities.
John Williams was the issued a revised version of the Code in July 2003, which is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after November Senior Independent Director during the year under review: 2003.
The Board is committed to working towards meeting with his retirement at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, this the standards set out in the revision to the Combined Code, role will be assumed by another of the Non-Executive Directors and to full explanation to shareholders where a divergence who will be chosen following the Annual General Meeting.
from the Code is considered desirable.
The Company has prepared a full analysis of the new requirements and the The Non-executive Directors have met without the chairman Board will consider the implementation of any appropriate or the Executive Directors and the senior Independent changes in the current year.
Director, John Williams, has provided feedback to the Chairman following this meeting.
DIRECTORS The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic Although Linda Wilding served on the Board prior to the direction, the establishment of Group policies and internal Companys flotation, the Board has concluded that the nature controls, and the monitoring of operational performance.
of changes to the capital structure, size and scale of the It meets regularly throughout the year and, in addition to Company, together with her limited financial dependency the routine reporting of financial and operational issues, on the Company and her expertise and professionalism reviews each of its trading divisions and key functions in detail.
mean that it is appropriate and in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders to regard her as an The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved independent Director with her term of office commencing to it for decision and delegates certain powers to the Board when she was re-appointed to the Board on 3 November 1998.
Committees and to the Executive Directors collectively and individually.
The Schedule of reserved matters is periodically Board members are appointed by the Board on the reviewed by the Board and presently includes annual budgets, recommendation of the Nominations Committee, which strategic plans, approval of major capital expenditure and is chaired by the Chairman and consists of all the Nonsignificant financing.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third or the number nearest to but Information is provided to all Board members in the week not exceeding one-third of the Directors shall stand for prior to a Board meeting to enable the Directors to consider re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Furthermore, the issues for discussion, and to request clarification or the Articles of Association require a Director to stand for additional information.
The Board regularly reviews the type re-election if they were not appointed or re-appointed and amount of information provided.
The Board meets eight at either of the last two Annual General Meetings.
Newly times a year and, in addition, has an Away Day in January appointed Directors are required to retire and seek for full consideration of strategic issues facing the Company.
shareholder election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Therefore, Martin Gatto, Richard All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Brooke, David Longbottom and Linda Wilding will all seek Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year, Mr H A Willits, a Solicitor, was appointed as the Secretary.
The appointment All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year and removal of the Company Secretary is reserved for the term.
A Non-Executive Director may be appointed for consideration of the Board as a whole.
a further three-year term by agreement with the Company.
If appropriate, and following review, a further term of In addition, there is an agreed procedure for seeking three years may be agreed.
In addition, the Board are independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
implementing arrangements for the performance and contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and the On appointment to the Board, every Director is provided Chairman, to be assessed on an annual basis.
with opportunities for appropriate training to enable them to discharge their duties as a Director.
It is the intention of The Chairman of the Board has instigated a review of the the Company to create opportunities for new Non-Executive effectiveness of the Board.
This review, carried out by the Directors to meet with significant shareholders should this Chairman, involved full consultation with all the Directors be requested by them.
The conclusions of the review have been discussed by the Board as a whole and will be kept under review during the forthcoming year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 25 The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference BOARD COMMITTEES in advising the Board on the remuneration policy for the In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate Executive Directors and senior executives.
When making governance best practice, the Board has established its decisions, the views of the Chief Executive are considered a number of committees.
All of the Committees have and appropriate professional advice is sought where needed.
written terms of reference, approved by the Board, The Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors, review which are described below.
the fees for Non-Executive Directors annually.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by Keith Hamill and also Professional advisers consulted during the year were Keplar comprised during the financial year of John Williams, Associates and Watson Wyatt, who did not provide any other Michael Payne, Martin Gatto and Richard Brooke.
During the services to the Company.
year, Robert Wickman and Michael Payne stood down from the Committee following retirement from the Board.
The Directors Report on Remuneration, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the The Committee meets at least three times a year and reports Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and to the Board on all matters relating to the regulatory and approved by the Board, is set out on pages 28 to 34. accounting requirements that may affect the Group, together with the financial reporting and internal control NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE procedures including the annual and interim financial The Nominations Committee is chaired by John Williams statements.
In addition, the Committee ensures that an and also consists of all the Non-Executive Directors.
objective and professional relationship is maintained with Following John Williams retirement at the AGM, it will the external auditors, with particular regard to the nature be chaired by Keith Hamill.
It monitors and reviews the and extent of any non-audit functions they provide.
membership of and succession to the Board of Directors, and makes recommendations to the Board, inter alia, on During the financial year ended 29 February 2004, the the identification and recruitment of potential Executive Companys external auditors have provided advice to and Non-Executive Directors.
the Company, including a reorganisation of the Companys subsidiaries, which was completed in August 2003.
During the year, two Non-Executive Directors, Martin Gatto and Richard Brooke, joined the Board with effect from The external auditors may attend all meetings of the Audit 1 January 2004.
In recommending these appointments, Committee and have direct access to the Committee and the Committee reviewed the skills and experience represented its Chairman at all times.
The Executive Directors are not on the Board and identified areas where additional skills members of the Committee, but may attend meetings of would enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
A third the Committee as necessary to facilitate its business.
new Non-Executive Director, David Longbottom, joined the Board in April of this year.
The backgrounds and skills The Company has an internal audit function, which is charged of these Directors are set out on page 20 of this Report.
with ensuring adequate controls exist and are complied with at a unit level over cash and stock.
They also ensure that The Directors Report sets out details of the skills and the standard of operation at unit level is compliant with the experience of Mr Gatto, Mr Brooke and Mr Longbottom, requirements of the local authorities for that area, and other which form the basis of the recommendation to shareholders statutory compliance.
that they be elected as Directors of the Company.
To comply with the provisions of the combined code, The Committee, having regard to the direction of the Combined Keith Hamill will stand down as Chairman of the Committee Code, considers that Ms Wilding continues to be effective following the Annual General Meeting in July.
The Committee and committed, and recommends her to the shareholders will select a new Chairman at that time.
for re-election on this basis.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Linda Wilding, The Board is responsible for the Companys risk management and consists of all the Non-Executive Directors.
It has delegated responsibility for implementing an appropriate risk management programme to a committee Robert Wickham and Michael Payne stood down from the comprising Andrew Burns, John Williams, Alan Goldman, Committee during the year.
Keith Hamill retired from the Henry Andrew Willits Company Secretary and Tony Steed, Committee with effect from 1 March 2004 but is invited who has responsibility for health and safety issues.
The Board to attend Committee meetings.
Martin Gatto and Richard sets guidelines on the general level of risk that is acceptable Brooke attended meetings of the Committee following their and has a considered approach to evaluating risks and appointment in January 2004 but did not officially join the controls.
More details of the operation of this process are Committee until 1 April 2004. given in the Internal Controls section of this Report.
Following the retirement of John Williams, Keith Hamill will become Chairman of the committee immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
26 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2004 CONTINUED In order to ensure that the system of internal control becomes EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE embedded in the operations and culture of the Company, The Executive Committee consists of Stephen Thomas, management are required to identify and evaluate the who is Chairman of the Committee, Andrew Burns, Alistair significant risks applicable to their areas of business and Burford and Brendan McLoughlin.
The Company Secretary design and operate suitable controls.
These risks are assessed also attends all meetings of the Committee.
This Committee on a continual basis and may relate to internal and external exercises the day-to-day management function of the sources including disruption in information systems, Company.
The Committee meets weekly and considers amongst its standing agenda items all capital expenditure, competition and changes in the regulatory environment.
revenue expenditure not authorised by the Executive To further improve the monitoring of risks, the Company Directors within their individual authority levels, regular has recently installed a computerised risk management reports from the Directors and a regular review of the system.
The system is in the first stage of roll-out and will strategic aims of the Company.
further ensure that the Companys internal control procedures become embedded in the culture of the Company.
CAPITAL COMMITTEE The creation of the Capital Committee received Board In addition, the Board has established a Risk Management approval in September 2003.
Its membership consists of Committee that meets at least three times a year and whose Keith Hamill, who chairs the Committee, John Williams and main purposes are as follows: the four Executive Directors.
The function of the Committee is threefold.
First, to oversee the capital expenditure of the To review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent Company.
Secondly, the committee has responsibility for in the business and the system of control necessary to capital expenditure planning and budgeting.
Thirdly, to manage such risks and present their findings to the Board.
exercise a limited delegated function to approve capital To reinforce managements control consciousness expenditure up to an agreed limit.
Expenditure that exceeds and foster a culture within the Group that emphasises the agreed limit is approved by the full Board.
the Committee has delegated authority from the Board up To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys to a limit of 1m.
To consider the risks of new ventures and other RISK MANAGEMENT strategic initiatives.
The Company continued to invest significant resources in its Risk Management processes and function.
More details of In addition to the major risk review process, the Company the operation of the Companys risk management strategies operates under an established internal control framework, are given below.
the key features of which are as follows: a Internal control b Decision-making The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, system can only manage rather than eliminate risk and can thus ensuring it maintains control over appropriate strategic, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against financial, organisational, compliance and risk issues.
A meeting of the Executive Directors takes place each week to make decisions relating to investment issues such as The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for property acquisitions, capital expenditure and important identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks operational issues.
The Company Secretary attends these faced by the Company.
This was introduced during the year meetings to ensure that procedures are followed and decisions to 25 February 2001 and has remained in place up to minuted.
The Operations Committee also meets on a weekly the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
basis to review financial and operating performance.
These The process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
meetings are attended by each of the Managing Directors and any issues are reported through to the meeting of The Combined Code requires that the Directors review the the Executive Directors.
The Board has put in place an effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, organisational structure with clearly defined lines of which includes financial, operational, compliance and risk responsibility and delegation of authority.
is reviewed from time to time to ensure that appropriate controls exist and that financial and operational issues The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system are dealt with in an effective manner.
As part of the review process, the Risk Management Committee carried out a detailed review of c Financial and operational controls the current system of internal control and, in particular, the There are established procedures for budgeting and planning process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks capital expenditure, together with reporting systems for affecting the business and the policies and procedures by monitoring the Groups business and performance.
which these risks are managed.
During the review process, members of the Risk Management Committee had the opportunity to discuss any areas of concern with management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 27 The Companys extensive portfolio of applications designed There is a rolling three-year forecast in place, which is to automate and control its core business processes are being used to assess the financial impact of the Companys extended from the administrative centres to our premises strategy and there is a comprehensive budgeting system nationally to provide automation and time-saving initiatives with an annual budget approved by the Board, half-yearly for the employees operating those businesses.
This provides budget and monthly forecasts for the remainder of the significant opportunities for the Company in the future.
A monthly report to the Board details the financial performance of the Group for the preceding period versus budget and includes a forecast of future profitability.
The Company has equipped its premises with leading-edge Management is accountable to the Directors for the customer entertainment technology including digital media, implementation of the system of internal financial control mobile and wireless CRM and customer loyalty systems.
This enables the Board to meet Such systems are designed to engage the customer whilst its ongoing responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy providing the business with demographic and micro marketing of the Companys accounting records and ensures that analysis linked into our cutting-edge EPOS and CRM ongoing financial performance is monitored in a timely systems.
These systems allow the Company to and corrective manner and that risk is identified as early communicate directly with its customers and to target any as practicably possible.
These controls include: promotions or incentives accurately to the appropriate target Comprehensive budgeting systems with annual budgets audience.
for sales, profits, cash and capital expenditure approved by the Board.
The Company utilises a dedicated customer data centre to Detailed variance analysis of actual results compared to provide business managers and marketers with targeted budget on a period and year to date basis.
marketing across multiple channels, delivering excellent Constant monitoring and regular review of sales, cash, return on investment to business units.
assets and operational compliance at unit level by the internal audit function.
g Public liability An electronic checking system has been developed to monitor d Property acquisitions and investment appraisal housekeeping and customer safety standards within the The Company has clearly defined guidelines for the acquisition Companys venues.
Initial trials demonstrated that the of properties and for capital expenditure.
These include scanning system assisted both operators and support annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, departments to provide a due diligence defence against levels of authority and due diligence requirements.
In addition, public liability claims.
This has led to a marked reduction in the and as a further layer of control, the Capital Committee has number of public liability claims experienced by the Company.
a review function in relation to the capital budget.
h Health and safety e Business unit controls The Company continues to promote both the safety of its Controls and procedures, including information systems customers and staff through its health and safety standards.
controls, are detailed in procedure manuals and other written instructions.
Compliance with these procedures is reviewed Regular health and safety audits including 30 independent by the Companys internal audit function and management audits a year carried out by the Companys insurance brokers at divisional level.
Marsh together with management training courses, ensure that our customers benefit from the highest standards of f Information computer technology risk management.
This focus on risk management has also The Company has completed an extensive reorganisation enabled the Company to reduce its insurance premiums of its ICT function aimed at closely aligning its strategy significantly for the forthcoming year.
with Information Technology Infrastructure Library Best Practice guidelines.
The Company has introduced a new food safety system, allowing it to demonstrate compliance with existing legislation One part of this reorganisation has been the outsourcing and the proposed changes in food legislation scheduled of first line and field support to all the Companys premises for 2006. nationally.
This provides significant service improvements and cost savings for its venues and the Company as a whole.
IT policies and procedures have been independently audited to ensure control and provision of stability to the ICT function.
In line with risk governance procedures we have implemented a full disaster recovery strategy, including multi-site failure to ensure business continuity.
