7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 3 3 05 7:29 pm Page 22 22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The chairman is responsible for leading the board and for its The Anglo American Group is committed to the highest standards effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for meetings of the board of business integrity, ethical values and professionalism in all in collaboration with the chief executive.
The chairman, with its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board the assistance of the company secretary, ensures that the supports the highest standards of corporate governance and the directors receive timely, accurate and clear information before directors are accountable to the shareholders for doing so.
The board meetings and updates of issues arising between meetings.
key principles underpinning the governance of the Group are set The chief executive, together with the other members of the out in this statement.
Executive Board, is responsible for the overall day-to-day management of the Company.
An effective system of control aimed at managing business risks is an integral component of the Groups governance practices, In the year to 31 December 2004 the board met seven times, details of which are provided in the internal control section below.
the Audit and Nomination Committees four times and the Remuneration Committee five times.
The attendance at these Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 and up to the date meetings was as follows: of this report, the Company has been in compliance with the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate seven Committee Committee Committee meetings four meetings five meetings four meetings Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Details of the application of the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 7 4 are set out below.
A J Trahar 7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS D J Challen 7 4 5 The board of directors is responsible to the shareholders for setting B E Davison 6 the direction of Anglo American through the establishment of strategic objectives and key policies.
The board meets on a regular Dr C E Fay 7 4 4 basis, at least six times a year.
The board considers issues of R M Godsell 7 strategic direction, major acquisitions and disposals and approves major capital expenditure and other matters having a material A W Lea 7 effect on Anglo American.
Presentations are made to the board G Lindahl 7 by business management on the activities of operations and both executive and non-executive directors undertake regular visits R J Margetts 7 4 5 4 to operations and projects.
During 2004, non-executive directors Dr M S B Marques 7 visited the following operations: Richards Bay and SilvaCel paper mills, the Sishen iron ore mine and the Potgietersrust Platinums W A Nairn 7 mine in South Africa and the Hippo Valley, Unki and Zimbabwe N F Oppenheimer 6 2 Alloys operations in Zimbabwe, as well as operations in Canada and China.
F T M Phaswana 7 4 5 4 Sir David Scholey 5 4 The composition of the board, with a strong independent element, ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers Prof K A L M Van Miert 7 4 4 of decision and authority.
Following the retirement of W A Nairn on 31 December 2004, the board currently comprises three Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as executive and eleven non-executive directors, eight of whom are well as significant experience in financial, commercial and mining independent according to the definition contained in the Combined activities.
As recommended by the Combined Code, all directors Code.
The independent directors are Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, have full access to internal and external auditors, and are D J Challen, F T M Phaswana, Prof K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, encouraged to stay fully abreast of the Groups business through G Lindahl, R J Margetts and Dr M S B Marques.
R J Margetts is meetings with senior management and site visits.
Training the senior independent non-executive director.
and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account existing The other non-executive directors are R M Godsell, N F Oppenheimer qualifications and experience.
During the year, directors have and Sir David Scholey.
The terms and conditions of appointment attended, inter alia, workshops and briefings on the following of non-executive directors are available for inspection upon subjects: the new OFR operating and financial review request during normal business hours and at the AGM and requirements: board effectiveness: remuneration committees: are referred to in the Remuneration Report set out on page 34. the role of the chairman, and corporate social responsibility.
Sir David Scholey and Mr Gran Lindahl have indicated that they will retire from the board at the AGM in April.
The board has Four of the non-executive directors, Dr Fay and Messrs Godsell, recommended to shareholders the appointment of Mr R C Alexander Margetts and Oppenheimer, will have completed six years as as a non-executive director with effect from 20 April 2005. directors of the Company during the course of 2005.
The Combined The board has also recommended to shareholders that Mr R Mdori Code requires that where non-executive directors remain on be appointed a director with effect from 1 June 2005 with the a board beyond a six-year term, their continuance should be intention that he will take over the position of finance director subject to rigorous review and should take into account the need on 1 September 2005.
The board has also recommended for progressive refreshing of the board.
to shareholders the appointment of Mr D A Hathorn and Mr S R Thompson as executive directors of the Company.
Biographical details of Messrs Hathorn and Thompson are set out on page 14 of the Annual Review.
Biographical details of Messrs Alexander and Mdori are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 3 3 05 7:48 pm Page 23 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 23 In October 2004, the board met for its annual three day strategy All directors have access to management, and to the advice and session, part of which was devoted to an evaluation of the services of the company secretary, and to such information as performance of the board, its committees and its members.
is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully The directors other than Dr Fay and Messrs Godsell, Margetts and and effectively.
Furthermore, all directors are entitled to seek Oppenheimer confirm that, having reviewed their performance, independent professional advice concerning the affairs of Anglo they believe that it is in the best interests of the Company for American at its expense.
All directors are subject to election by Dr Fay and Messrs Godsell, Margetts and Oppenheimer to shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
continue as directors of the Company beyond their six year terms.
In addition, directors retire by rotation and stand for re-election In reaching this conclusion, the board has taken cognisance of by shareholders at least once every three years in accordance the unique positions of Messrs Godsell and Oppenheimer as, with Anglo Americans articles of association.
respectively, the CEO and chairman of AngloGold Ashanti and fide Beers.
Their advice and input to the Anglo American plc board Subject to specific fundamental, strategic and formal matters in relation to their respective companies are considered essential.
reserved for its decision, the board delegates certain responsibilities Dr Fay and Mr Margetts chair the Safety & Sustainable Development to a number of standing committees, which operate within defined and Remuneration Committees, respectively, and also provide terms of reference laid down by the board, as referred to below.
invaluable input as members of the Audit Committee.
Dr Fay has The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination many years experience in the safety, health and environment and Safety & Sustainable Development Committees of the board field, as well as broad technical and project management experience are published on the Companys website.
and has gained considerable insight into these aspects of the various Group operations.
His continued leadership of the drive EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT to improve safety and enhance sustainable development at the Companys operations is considered most desirable and in the EXECUTIVE BOARD best interests of the Company and its workforce as well as On 22 February 2005, the Executive Committee was replaced its shareholders.
Mr Margetts has broad experience of global by the Executive Board, as the principal executive organ of the businesses and, in addition to his contribution to strategic issues, Company.
Prior to 22 February 2005, the Executive Committee has shown great skill in the complex field of remuneration policy was chaired by the chief executive and the other members were and in his roles as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, all of the executive directors of the Company and D A Hathorn, a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees and as the R J King and S R Thompson.
The Executive Board is chaired by senior independent non-executive director.
The board is therefore the chief executive and the membership comprises all of the of the view that it is also in the interest of the Company for Mr executive directors of the Company, the chief executive officer Margetts to continue in those roles beyond the six-year term.
of Anglo American South Africa, the executive vice president responsible for Group human resources and business development In addition, the board performance evaluation process confirmed and the technical director.
The Executive Board is empowered that those directors due for re-election at the AGM Messrs Godsell and responsible for implementing the strategies and policies and Trahar and Professor Van Miert continue to demonstrate their determined by the board, managing the business and affairs of commitment and to make valuable and effective contributions the Company, prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and to the Company and the proposed re-elections are therefore human resources and establishing best management practices.
recommended by the chairman and the board.
The Executive Board is also responsible for senior management appointments and monitoring their performance and acts as the In relation to the progressive refreshing of the board, Anglo American risk committee for the purpose of reviewing Dr Marques appointment in December 2003, brought new insight and monitoring Anglo Americans systems of internal control.
into South American affairs and the intended appointment of Messrs Hathorn, Mdori and Thompson as executive directors and The Executive Board presently comprises: A J Trahar chairman, the intended appointment of Mr Alexander as an independent B E Davison, D A Hathorn, R J King, A W Lea, A E Redman, non-executive director will bring further invaluable and new S R Thompson and P L Zim.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The board is confident that it has, therefore, fully complied The role of the Investment Committee, which is a sub-committee with the requirements of the Combined Code in regard to the of the Executive Board, is to manage the process of capital constitution of the board.
allocation by ensuring that investments and divestments increase shareholder value and meet Anglo Americans financial criteria.
As referred to above, a formal evaluation of the performance of The Committee makes recommendations to the Executive Board the board, its committees and the directors was carried out in and or the board on these matters.
The Committee meets October 2004 by means of detailed questionnaires and interviews.
This process confirmed that all the directors contributions remain valid.
The results of the evaluation were discussed at the October The Investment Committee presently comprises: A W Lea meeting of the board.
The evaluation process also included chairman, D A Hathorn, A E Redman, S R Thompson and a review, chaired by the senior independent non-executive P G Whitcutt Head of Finance.
director without the chairman present, of the performance of the chairman.
The board evaluation process resulted in a number of changes to board agenda items and the conduct of the board meetings.
In addition, a programme of informal meetings of directors was instituted.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 2 3 05 11:52 pm Page 24 24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity The Remuneration Committee, comprising solely independent of financial reporting and the audit process, and that a sound risk non-executive directors, is responsible for establishing and management and internal control system is maintained.
In pursuing developing Anglo Americans general policy on executive and senior these objectives the Audit Committee oversees relations with management remuneration and determining specific remuneration the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal packages for executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises: R J Margetts In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial chairman, D J Challen, Dr C E Fay and F T M Phaswana.
reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the SAFETY & SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT preparation of public financial information and has examined COMMITTEE S&SD documentation relating to the Annual Report, Annual Review, The S&SD Committee formerly the Safety, Health and Interim Report, preliminary announcements and related public Environment Committee is responsible for developing framework reports.
The clarity of disclosures included in the financial policies and guidelines for the management of sustainable statements was reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the development issues, including safety, health and environment basis for significant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the matters, and ensuring the progressive implementation of the same accounting treatment of major transactions open to different throughout the Group.
The Committee normally meets four times approaches, the Committee considered written reports by each year, including a visit to an operation, and business unit heads management and the external auditors.
The Committees are invited to attend committee meetings.
Each business unit head recommendations are submitted to the board for approval.
makes an annual safety and sustainable development presentation to the Commitee.
A separate Report to Society 2004 will be The chief financial officers of all operations have provided published in April.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that financial and accounting development, health and environmental performance of the control frameworks operate satisfactorily.
The Audit Committee Companys managed operations, their performance with regard to considered summaries of the significant risk and control issues the Companys Good Citizenship principles and the operational arising from these reports.
The Audit Committee also received dimensions of their social programmes.
regular internal and external audit reports on the results of audits at various operations.
Further information on risk management The S&SD Committee presently comprises: Dr C E Fay chairman, processes is provided in the internal control disclosure statement B E Davison, R M Godsell, G Lindahl, Dr M S B Marques, Sir Mark on page 26.
Moody-Stuart, W A Nairn, A E Redman, Sir David Scholey and A J Trahar.
The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the United Kingdom professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation NOMINATION COMMITTEE and employment of former employees of the external auditors The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the board have been complied with.
on the appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition of the The Audit Committee considered information pertaining to the board generally and the balance between executive and nonbalance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group executive directors.
The Nomination Committee meets as and in 2004 and concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit when required and has engaged external consultants to identify fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the external auditors on all relationships between the external auditors and Anglo The board, via the Nomination Committee, has taken steps American that might reasonably have a bearing on the external to ensure that the Human Resources function of the Group auditors independence and the audit engagement partner and regularly reviews and updates the succession plans of directors staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures, and senior managers.
the Audit Committee has concluded that the external auditors independence was not impaired.
During the year the Nomination Committee managed the process of the selection of Ren Mdori to succeed Tony Lea as finance The Audit Committee approved the external auditors terms of director with effect from 1 September 2005 and the proposed engagement, scope of work, the process for the 2004 interim election of Messrs Hathorn and Thompson as executive directors review, the annual audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
and Mr Alexander as a non-executive director at the AGM.
Based on written reports submitted, the Audit Committee reviewed, with the external auditors, the findings of their work and confirmed The Nomination Committee presently comprises: F T M Phaswana that all significant matters have been satisfactorily resolved.
chairman, R J Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, N F Oppenheimer, Sir David Scholey and Prof K A L M Van Miert.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors performance and independence underpins its recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2006.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 2 3 05 11:52 pm Page 25 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 25 Each internal audit function reports directly to an audit committee A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack of at business or listed company level and is accountable for control over non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
maintaining Group auditing standards, including risk reporting.
In essence, the external auditors independence is deemed to be Internal audit functions mandates and annual audit coverage plans impaired if the auditors provide a service which: were approved by the relevant audit committees, which have considered reports on the results of internal audit work.
A summary results in auditing of own work by the auditors: of audit results and risk management information was presented results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee to the Audit Committee at regular intervals throughout the year.
of the Group: Also tabled were reports submitted by the Groups head of puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group: or internal audit on internal audit functions performance against creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and Group standards.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit the Group.
functions is evaluated by means of annual assessments against predetermined criteria and periodic external peer reviews, the Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
measures, namely disclosure of the extent and nature of nonaudit services, the prohibition of selected services, and prior During the year the Audit Committee has reviewed the Groups approval by the Audit Committee chairman of non-audit services progress towards the implementation of the new International where the cost of the proposed assignment is likely to exceed a Financial Reporting Standard IFRS programme.
Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services was called in April 2004 to consider the accounting options for to the Groups audit committees and inclusion of prescribed detail first time adoption of IFRS.
in the Annual Reports of listed entities.
The policys definition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds with the European The Audit Committee also reviewed business units audit coverage Commissions recommendations on auditors independence.
plans aimed at providing assurance in respect of mineral resources and ore reserves.
Other safeguards encapsulated in the policy include: The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy Composition of the Audit Committee based on best practice and professional standards in the The Committee comprises solely independent non-executive United Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of the audit directors.
The dates of appointment and names of those who were engagement partner is five years and for any key audit principal members during the year and who currently remain members are: seven years.
Any partner designated as a key audit principal of Anglo American D J Challen chairman 9 September 2002 will not be employed by Anglo American in a key management position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since R J Margetts 19 March 1999 the conclusion of the last relevant audit.
Dr C E Fay 4 June 2001 The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
F T M Phaswana 2 September 2002 The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making Prof K A L M Van Miert 10 May 2002 recommendations to the board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The board, in consultation with the Audit Committee chairman, The Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent makes appointments to the Audit Committee.
The board has counsel and other advisors as they determine necessary in order determined that the Committee members have the skills and to resolve issues on auditor independence.
experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the chairman of the Committee has DIRECTORS REMUNERATION requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
The directors remuneration report, setting out Anglo Americans policy on executive directors remuneration, benefits, share The Audit Committee met four times during 2004, two meetings schemes, long term incentive and bonus plans and pension coinciding with key dates within the financial reporting and auditing entitlements, is set out on pages 28 to 43 of this Annual Report.
All of the members were present at those meetings, two of A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be proposed which were followed by discussions, independent of management, at the forthcoming AGM.
with the external audit partners and the head of internal audit.
Details of remuneration paid to members of the Audit Committee, including the additional fee paid to the chairman of the Audit Committee, are set out on page 36.
Policy on external auditors independence Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence, which came into effect on 1 January 2003, is consistent with the ethical standards promulgated by the Auditing Practices Board and published in December 2004.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 4 3 05 10:16 am Page 26 26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS INTERNAL CONTROL DISCLOSURE The Company maintains an active dialogue with its key financial The Executive Board, as mandated by the board, has established audiences, including institutional shareholders and sell-side a Group-wide system of internal control to manage significant analysts.
The Investor and Corporate Affairs department Group risks.
This system, which has been operating throughout manages the ongoing dialogue with these audiences and regular the year and to the date of this report, supports the board in presentations take place at the time of interim and final results discharging its responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of as well as during the rest of the year.
An active programme with risks associated with the Groups diverse international operations potential shareholders is also maintained.
is effectively managed in support of the creation and preservation of shareholder wealth.
The boards policy on risk management Any concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Company encompasses all significant business risks to the Group, including and its affairs are communicated to the board as a whole.
financial, operational and compliance risk, which could undermine The board is briefed on a regular basis by the Investor and the achievement of business objectives.
This system of risk Corporate Affairs department and analysts reports are circulated management is designed so that the different businesses are able to the directors.
to tailor and adapt their risk management processes to suit their specific circumstances.
This flexible approach has the commitment During the year there have been regular presentations and of the Groups senior management.
There is clear accountability meetings with institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, for risk management, which is a key performance area of line continental Europe, the USA and Canada to communicate the managers throughout the Group.
The requisite risk and control strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors capability is assured through board challenge and appropriate as well as key corporate officers host such presentations and management selection and skills development.
The chairman is also available to shareholders to supported in giving effect to their risk responsibilities through discuss any matter they wish to raise.
The Companys website policies and guidelines on risk and control management.
co. uk provides the latest and historical monitoring of risk and control processes, across 15 significant financial and other information on Anglo American.
Group-wide risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, provides the basis for regular and exception reporting to business Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming AGM, management and boards, the Executive Board and the board.
notice of which is contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, to put questions to the board, including the chairmen of the The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide various committees.
Facilities have been put in place to enable the board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key shareholders to receive company communications electronically risks.
The reports to the board, which are submitted at least every rather than by mail and, for those unable to attend the meeting, six months, include an assessment of the likelihood and impact to cast their AGM votes by telephone or by electronic means of risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and including those shareholders whose shares are held in the their effectiveness.
The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key Voting on each resolution to be proposed at the AGM will operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance be conducted on a poll rather than by a show of hands.
that the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the The results of the poll will be announced to the press and risk tolerance levels defined by the board.
Regular management on the Companys website.
reporting, which provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an important component of board assurance.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT In addition, certain board committees focus on specific risks such The board is required to present a balanced and understandable as safety of people and capital investment and provide assurance assessment of Anglo Americans financial position and to the board on those matters.
The chief financial officers provide prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the chairmans confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that financial and accounting questions and answers and the chief executives statement set control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The board also out on pages 2 to 5 and the financial review set out on pages receives assurance from the Audit Committee, which derives its 6 to 18 of this Annual Report.
The respective responsibilities information, in part, from regular internal and external audit reports of the directors and external auditors are set out on pages on risk and internal control throughout the Group.
As referred to in the directors report on page 19, internal audit functions have a formal collaboration process in the directors have expressed their view that Anglo Americans place with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of business is a going concern.
The Anglo American internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Executive Board and the board on the effectiveness of the risk management process throughout the Group.
Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint ventures.
In those companies that are independently managed, the directors who are represented on these organisations boards seek assurance that significant risks are being managed.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 3 3 05 7:32 pm Page 27 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 27 In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk management, the board considers the key findings from the ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management assertions and independent assurance reports.
The board also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk profile and considers whether the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the board in achieving its risk management objectives.
During the course of the year the board considered the Groups responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
The board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull guidelines.
This includes social, environmental and ethical risks as highlighted in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment issued by the Association of British Insurers.
A detailed report on social, environmental and ethical issues will be included in the Companys Report to Society 2004.
WHISTLEBLOWING PROGRAMME Following adoption in December 2003 of a whistleblowing policy that is aligned with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, the Group has implemented a whistleblowing programme in virtually all of the managed operations.
The programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, is aimed at enabling employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our values.
It may include: actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety of people or damage to the environment: unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting controls, financial reporting and auditing matters: criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption: failure to comply with any legal obligation: miscarriage of justice: any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles or any similar policy: any other legal or ethical concern: and concealment of any of the above.
The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, e-mail, web-based and surface mail communication channels to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in Anglo American plc and its managed operations.
The communication facilities are operated by independent service providers who sanitise information received from callers to remove all indications as to the identity of the callers before submission to designated persons in the Group.
