Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The non-executive directors provide a wide range of skills governance and supports the new Combined Code on and experience to the Group.
They bring an independent Corporate Governance the Code, published in July 2003, judgement on issues of strategy, performance, risk and which takes effect for Marks & Spencer from 4 April 2004. people through their contribution at Board and committee The following statement is intended to explain our meetings.
The Board considers that each non-executive governance policies and practices in light of the new Code director is independent in character and judgement and that principles and provisions and to provide insight into how they also meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
the Board and management run the business for the benefit It is currently anticipated that up to three new non-executive of shareholders.
A detailed account of how we will comply directors will be joining the Board in the next 12 months.
with the new Code provisions can be found on the Corporate The first such appointment will re-establish the balance Governance section of the Companys website, together with between executive and non-executive directors.
Subsequent the terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and appointments will lead to first Brian Baldock and then Dame nomination committees, at www.
Stella Rimington retiring from the Board, both having served in excess of six years as non-executive directors.
This The Board recruitment plan has been agreed by the Board, on the At 24 May 2004, the Board comprised the Chairman, Chief recommendation of the nomination committee, to manage Executive, five executive directors and five non-executive the orderly succession of non-executive directors without directors, who are collectively responsible for the success compromising Board or committee effectiveness.
A list of directors, with details of their biographies and committee membership, is given on page 18 Graham Oakley is Group Secretary and Head of Corporate of the Annual Review.
He acts as a condential sounding board to the Chairman and individual directors, assisting with their Luc Vandevelde is Chairman and his prime responsibility induction, duties and departure.
He plays a key role for the is for the working of the Board, for the balance of its Chairman in ensuring the effective functioning of the Board membership subject to Board and shareholder approval, and its committees and that procedures are both followed and for ensuring that all directors are able to play their full and regularly reviewed.
He also leads the Corporate part in its activities.
Governance Group, which provides advice, guidance and Roger Holmes is Chief Executive and he is responsible support to the Board and its committees and to commercial for all aspects of the management of the Group and its colleagues on a wide range of governance issues.
business, which includes developing the appropriate 12 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely decision.
It determines the overall Group strategy: creation, and effective implementation.
acquisition or disposal of material corporate entities or The Chairman ensures that the directors receive accurate, assets: development and protection of the brand: matters timely and clear information.
Directors are encouraged to of public interest that could affect the Groups reputation: update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group public announcements including statutory accounts: through their initial induction, ongoing participation at significant changes in accounting policy: capital structure Board and committee meetings, and through meeting our and dividend policy: operating plans and key performance people at Head Ofce and store locations.
The Board is indicators: prosecution, defence or settlement of material regularly updated on governance and regulatory matters.
litigation: Group remuneration policy: Board structure, Coaching is also available to directors to develop individual composition and succession.
There is an established procedure In January 2004, a new executive committee was created to whereby any director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of streamline top decision-making which comprises the Chief his or her duties, may take independent professional advice Executive, executive directors, Group Secretary and through the Group Secretary at the Companys expense.
directors of IT, HR and Marketing.
It manages the overall This has been extended to the audit, remuneration and performance of the Group, principally through the setting of nomination committees.
clear objectives and effective performance coaching, Brian Baldock is Senior Independent Director and his prime building long-term management capability, and ensuring responsibility is to provide a communication channel that the business is managed in a t and proper manner in between the Chairman and the non-executive directors and keeping with the values and business principles.
to ensure that the views of each non-executive director are Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors given due consideration.
He is also an additional contact seek election at their first AGM and all directors are required point for shareholders if they have reason for concern which to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief In addition, any director who is aged 70 or more is required Executive or Chief Financial officer has failed to resolve or to retire and seek re-election annually.
for which contact is inappropriate.
com Committees of the Board The nomination committee comprises Luc Vandevelde The audit committee comprises Kevin Lomax chairman, Chairman, Brian Baldock, Kevin Lomax, Paul Myners, Jack Brian Baldock, Paul Myners, Jack Keenan and Dame Stella Keenan and Dame Stella Rimington, all of whom are Rimington, all of whom are independent non-executive independent non-executive directors, with the exception of directors.
Its primary function is to review the reporting of the Chairman.
It ensures that appropriate procedures are in financial and other information to shareholders, the systems place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of internal control and risk management: and to maintain an of directors and for successional plans.
It reviews Board appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors and to structure, size, composition and successional needs, thereby review the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process.
keeping under review the balance of membership and that Additional items reviewed during the year include: food the Board has the required blend of skills, knowledge and stock accuracy, store assurance, international accounting experience.
standards, assurance procedures for CSR reporting and the During the year, candidate searches resulted in three updated fraud policy.
Private meetings have also been held directors being appointed to the Board: one executive and separately with the external auditors and the Chief Internal one non-executive recruited externally and one executive Auditor.
promoted through our own successional planning.
In each The audit committee keeps under review the independence case, appointments were made on merit and against and objectivity of the external auditors, objective criteria.
An engagement and fee We have recently announced that Luc Vandevelde has approvals process is in place which requires prior committee informed the Board that, as a result of personal approval for some engagements and excludes others.
In commitments that he needs to honour earlier than some cases, the nature of the advice may make it more expected, he will retire from the Board as soon as a timely and cost-effective to select PwC who already have a successor has been found.
Kevin Lomax, an independent good understanding of the Group.
PwC may also be non-executive director, is leading the search for a new appointed for consultancy work, but only after rigorous Chairman on behalf of the nomination committee.
The checks, including competitive tender, to confirm they are the committee has also commissioned searches for new nonbest provider.
PwC is also subject to professional standards executive directors to address successional arrangements.
which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role performed on behalf of shareholders.
Details of this years fees are The nomination committee keeps under review any other given in note 3 on page 34 of the Annual Report.
significant external appointments of the Chairman and 13 currently Luc Vandevelde, in addition to his part-time role as The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Chairman of Marks & Spencer, is Managing Director of audit committee members enables them, as a group, to act Change Capital Partners, a private equity fund, and has as an effective audit committee.
The committee also has been a non-executive director of Vodafone Group plc since access to the financial expertise of the Group and its September 2003 and of Carrefour SA since April 2004. auditors and can seek further professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
As part of overall nonThe committee has also reviewed the letter of appointment executive succession we also expect to recruit a new nonfor new non-executive directors.
This sets out detailed executive director with recent and relevant financial information including expected time commitment.
Despite experience in order to refresh the skills and experience of the care taken in the recruitment of Barbara Cassani in the committee as a whole.
October 2003, her increasing commitments to Londons bid for the Olympic Games for 2012, led to her retirement from The remuneration committee comprises Dame Stella the Board in April 2004.
Rimington chairman, Brian Baldock and Jack Keenan, all of whom are independent, non-executive directors.
Barbara The corporate social responsibility CSR committee Cassani was a member until her retirement from the Board.
comprises Luc Vandevelde chairman, Alison Reed, Paul Its primary role is to ensure the executive directors and Myners, Jack Keenan, Graham Oakley and three members senior management are fairly rewarded for their individual of senior management.
It provides the Board with an contributions to the Groups overall performance, giving due overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of regard to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
Key CSR risks and opportunities are The remuneration for the non-executive directors is identied in areas such as product safety, sustainable raw determined by the Chairman and executive directors.
materials, animal welfare, ethical trading, employment policy, health and safety and community programmes.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 16 to 23 of Further information is given on page 17 of the Annual the Annual Report.
Review and our first full CSR Report is available on the Companys website.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance continued The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by Board members at these meetings: Group Audit Remuneration Nomination CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 84533 Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 8 3 3 Roger Holmes, Chief Executive 8 Executive Directors Maurice Helfgott appointed 19.11.03 3 Justin King retired 19.11.03 5 1 David Norgrove retired 31.3.
04 7 Laurel Powers-Freeling 8 Vittorio Radice 8 Alison Reed 8 3 Non-Executive Directors Brian Baldock 8353 Barbara Cassani appointed 1.10.03 and retired 30.4.
04 3 2 Jack Keenan 84532 Kevin Lomax 8 4 2 Paul Myners 7 3 3 2 Stella Rimington 8353 Mark McKeon was appointed to the Board on 5 April 2004.
Performance evaluation significant progress has been made in performance evaluation this year under the leadership of the Chairman.
Collective Performance: In August 2003, the Board reviewed its own performance through a survey based on our employee survey, which resulted in three key actions championed by directors.
As a result: 14 a new executive committee has been created to streamline top decision-making: succession tools have been developed to improve the process of developing and promoting our best senior management and ensuring that fast track individuals are identied and developed: and the Board agenda has been reviewed to give more time and greater focus to business performance and strategic presentations.
Individual Performance: The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against objectives set annually.
Remuneration bonus is directly linked to these reviews and determined by the remuneration committee.
Similarly, the Chief Executive and Group Secretarys performance is reviewed by the Chairman, and the Chairmans performance by the non-executive directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
There has been increased focus this year on the non-executive directors.
The nomination committee has reviewed the proles for the Senior Independent Director and the non-executive directors and the Chairman has held individual discussions with them to ensure that Marks & Spencer creates the right environment for them to be at their best and that they continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Committee Performance: The nomination committee has agreed a process whereby committee chairmen will lead an open discussion based on a set of standard discussion points.
The outcome is to understand what the committee does well and apply lessons learnt from the past.
These discussions are taking place during April to June 2004.
Risk and internal control The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the expectations of our customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, and provide assurance of compliance with these policies.
Independent assurance is provided by internal audit, which operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment Every six months, the Board reviews the Group Risk Prole the tool that drives risk assessment and action planning.
This is supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
com integral part of planning and review, managers from each financial statements and a review of the nature and business area and major projects identify the risks to their scope of the external audit.
plans, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if Any significant findings or identied risks are closely they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
risks to the agreed boundaries for risk-taking.
This Management is called upon to present action plans and information is communicated upwards on a lter basis, give assurance.
The audit committee has completed its culminating in a comparison with the executive directors review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal assessment of the Groups risks and discussion by the Board.
This process has been in place for the year under review and Internal audits work is focused on areas of priority as up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
identied by the Group Risk Prole and in accordance with It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with an annual audit plan approved each year by the audit the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined committee and by the Board.
The Board receives a full Code produced by the Turnbull Working Party.
report from the Chief Internal Auditor each year on the departments work and findings and regular interim updates Internal control on specic issues.
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on compliance issues.
It has delegated to executive the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of management the implementation of the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the internal control within an established framework.
financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting The Board has put in place an organisational structure with of operational results and financial position of the Group formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation of and present their findings to the audit committee.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and Relations with shareholders for monitoring the Groups businesses and their We are committed to ongoing communication with all performance.
These include: shareholders and have a well established cycle of Purpose and aims communication.
Our Investor Relations department is the communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and focal point for contact with institutional investors and 15 targets maintains regular dialogue throughout the year.
All Company announcements and presentations are made available Plans and policies simultaneously on our website, which also contains corporate annual and three-year operating and capital plans: and customer information updated on a regular basis.
operating policies and procedures: clearly dened capital investment control guidelines: The Chairman ensures that the Board is regularly updated review of treasury policies by the Treasury Committee: and on institutional shareholder views following meetings they review of social, environmental and ethical matters by have with him, the Chief Executive or Finance Director.
In the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee June, the Board receives a presentation summarising the opinions of our principal shareholders following an Competent people extensive survey on their views after the release of our appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to fourth quarter trading statement in April.
full their allotted responsibilities: and clear roles and accountabilities with regular performance Our AGM, held in July, is well attended by shareholders who reviews receive a business presentation from the Chairman and Chief Executive and have the opportunity to ask questions of the Monitor and control full Board, including the chairmen of the audit, remuneration review by operating divisions of their plans with the and nomination committees.
In July 2003, all AGM relevant executive directors prior to submission to the resolutions were passed on a show of hands and we received Board for approval, including identication and proxy votes representing 51.52% of the ordinary share capital assessment of risks: with votes for resolutions ranging from 91.8% to 99.9%.
monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance against budget: and Having reviewed the recommendations of the Review by regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts Paul Myners of the impediments to voting UK shares, the Board has taken the following action to increase the level of Regulatory update voting for the AGM in 2004: reporting of accounting and legal developments: and campaign your vote counts and encourage the greater regular briengs on latest best practice corporate use of electronic voting: governance to the Board.
introduce three-way voting on AGM resolutions: for, against and vote withheld: Assurance conduct the vote at the AGM by poll rather than by On behalf of the Board, the audit committee examines the show of hands.
effectiveness of the Groups: assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk Compliance with the Code assessment activity and a report from internal audit on The directors consider that for the year ended 3 April 2004, the risk assessment process: and the Company complied with all the provisions of the systems of internal control primarily through conrming existing Code and has put in place procedures to enable it the scope of the internal audit programme and to report future compliance with the new Code, which takes reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and interim effect for Marks & Spencer from 4 April 2004.
