15 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate provides the framework for decisions to be taken by the Board governance and has applied the principles of corporate governance and those that are delegated to Committees of the Board.
All capital recommended in Section 1 of the new Combined Code published in expenditure projects over 1.0 million require Board approval.
July 2003 the new Combined Code and applicable to all reporting Further details on internal control are given on pages 17 and 18. periods beginning after 1 November 2003.
This Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2004 refers to the Companys The various Board Committees have authority to make decisions compliance with the new Combined Code.
in their areas of expertise.
The full terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be found on The Board has adopted the comply or explain approach www.
reinforced by Higgs conrming that either the Company complied with recommendations or provides an explanation for nonThere were six scheduled Board meetings during 2004 and ten compliance.
additional meetings to consider matters which were time critical and not appropriate to be dealt with by way of written resolution.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE NEW COMBINED CODE All directors in ofce at the date of the scheduled meetings were The Company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 present.
In advance of each meeting, the Chairman and Company of the new Combined Code published in July 2003 throughout the Secretary ensure that financial and operating information of the year ended 31 December 2004, with the exception of the following: Groups current performance, as well as information on any other matter, is distributed to the Board.
1.1 Prior to the admission to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority, share options were granted to Rudy Lobo The names of the members of the Board Committees are given on by Maxon Investments BV, rather than the Company without page 16, together with the number of meetings held during the year.
performance criteria attached to them.
None of these options remain outstanding.
All options granted since 2000 have had The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself performance conditions attached.
The Group will not grant available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
further options to employees without attaching performance This direct contact, together with feedback from management and criteria to their exercise: from the Companys two in-house brokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and KBC Peel Hunt, is used to brief the Board.
2.1 and C. 3.1 During 2004, the Remuneration and Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main Audit Committees did not comprise wholly independent nonconduit with investors, rather than the senior independent nonexecutive directors, although the Board satisfied itself that the executive director.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and directors who were members of these Committees were those particularly the senior independent non-executive director on the who were best able to contribute to its objectives.
Subsequently, results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, Stephen East was appointed to each of these Committees and Regus considers that the senior independent non-executive director John Matthews resigned from them.
These Committees now is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major comprise wholly independent non-executive directors: shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
Provision D. 1.1 The senior independent non-executive director, Roger Orf does not have regular meetings with major external The Chairman confers with other non-executive directors on a shareholders.
However he is available to meet them as requested.
regular basis, without the executive directors present.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS All directors, both executive and non-executive, are encouraged to As at 31 December 2004, the Board comprised three non-executive request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may have in directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors, as the Board minutes.
set out on page 12 of this report.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring On 11 March 2005, Stephen East 47 was appointed to the Board compliance with Board procedures.
He has been appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the directors The roles of Chairman John Matthews and Chief Executive Mark and senior management in the event of a claim being brought Dixon are separated and clearly dened.
Roger Orf is the senior against any of them in their capacity as directors and ofcers of independent non-executive director.
The Company regards Roger the Company.
Orf, Martin Robinson and Stephen East as independent nonexecutive directors.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE Regus has a part-time Chairman and a full-time Chief Executive.
Regus Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership There is a clear division of responsibility between the positions, with and to develop a coherent long term strategy for the Group.
Its the Chairman responsible for the running of the Board and the Chief other roles are to supervise the management, to maintain control Executive responsible for running the Groups business.
over the Groups assets and to establish high ethical standards of behaviour, together with developing robust corporate governance John Matthews spends one day per week in his role as Chairman.
He is also Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc and an independent director of SDL plc, Rotork plc, Diploma plc and Center Parcs Matters reserved for the Board are considered by the Board as a UK Group plc.
Mark Dixon is Chief Executive.
Details of other whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Directorships held by members of the Board are given on page 12.
There are well documented procedures and controls, including a schedule of matters that require the Boards specic approval.
This 16 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board works as a team but independence of thought and audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk approach are encouraged.
The present Board is made up of two management system.
executive directors and four non-executive directors three of which are independent.
A biography of each director is shown on page 12.
Oversee the relationship with the external auditor including but not limited to approval of their remuneration, approval of their APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD terms of engagement, assessing annually their independence The Nomination Committee proposes Board nominations, which and objectivity.
are then considered and approved by the full Board.
Membership of the Nomination Committee is shown below and consists of four The Committee met three times in 2004 and all members were non-executive directors three of which are independent.
It is recognised that the membership of the Committee did not comply with the recommendations of the new Combined TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Code as John Matthews is not deemed to be an independent Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to non-executive director.
However, Johns financial experience was assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors relevant and valuable to discussions.
On 11 March 2005, Stephen have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, East, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures, corporate the Committee and John Matthews resigned from it.
Thus the governance and regulatory compliance are followed and complied Committee is now compliant with the recommendations of the with.
Should a director request independent professional advice new Combined Code.
to carry out his duties, such advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
Nomination Committee John Matthews Chairman PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Martin Robinson During 2004, the Board evaluated the terms of reference, Roger Orf membership and responsibilities of its individual Board Committees Stephen East Appointed 11 March 2005 and will continue to do so on an annual basis.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee have been In line with the new Combined Code a formal annual performance documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text of the terms of evaluation has been conducted in respect of the Board, its reference are available on the Companys website, www.
The Chairman is responsible for The main terms of reference of this Committee are to regularly ensuring appropriate actions are taken as a result of this appraisal.
review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make The senior independent non-executive director is responsible for recommendations to the Board on the role and nomination of appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
directors for appointment to the Board, Board Committees and holders of any executive ofce.
The Committee is also responsible RE-ELECTION OF THE BOARD for assessing the role of Chairman and making appropriate All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at recommendations to the Board, and assisting the Chairman with least every three years and directors appointed during the period the annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual are required to seek re-election at the next AGM.
performance and effectiveness of the Board.
The Committee met twice in 2004 and all members were present.
Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have Remuneration Committee an initial three year term.
Martin Robinson Chairman John Matthews Resigned 11 March 2005 BOARD COMMITTEES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE Roger Orf In addition to regular scheduled Board meetings the Company Stephen East Appointed 11 March 2005 operates through various Board Committees.
The Committees and their main terms of reference are set out below: The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 19.
There were five scheduled Audit Committee meetings during 2004 and three additional meetings to allot shares Roger Orf Chairman under the Companys share option scheme.
All members were John Matthews Resigned 11 March 2005 present at the scheduled meetings.
Martin Robinson Stephen East Appointed 11 March 2005 Attendance at meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been attendance by the directors are shown below.
documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text of the terms of Audit Remuneration Nomination reference are available on the Companys website, www.
Main Board Committee Committee Committee The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: Total meetings 16 3 8 2 Executive Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, Mark Dixon 14 N A N A N A including its Annual and Interim Reports, preliminary results Rudy Lobo 16 N A N A N A announcements and any other formal announcement relating Non-executive to its financial performance.
John Matthews 13 3 8 2 Roger Orf 11 3 5 2 Keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal Martin Robinson 9 3 8 2 controls and risk management systems.
17 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Audit Committee and Auditors with appropriate functional responsibilities.
Executives of key The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an effective operating companies meet regularly to manage their respective system of internal control and compliance, accurate external financial businesses.
reporting, fullling its obligations under law and the new Combined Code, and managing the relationship with the Companys external The Board establishes corporate strategy and Group business auditors to the Audit Committee.
The Committee consists entirely objectives.
Regional management must integrate such objectives of non-executive directors.
into regional business strategies for presentation to the Board with supporting financial objectives.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year with representatives of the external auditors.
At the request of the There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and the Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting.
and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible executives as a part of the budget process and these are endorsed The Committee advises the Board on the appointment, by regional management.
Key risks are reported to the Board re-appointment, removal and remuneration of external auditors.
The appropriateness of controls is KPMG Audit Plc were the Companys auditors for the year ended considered by the executives, having regard to cost benefit, 31 December 2004.
For 2005, the Committee has recommended materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the actions to mitigate those risks are regularly considered by the Companys auditors be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Board and are formally reviewed and approved by the Board 2005.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the annually.
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the lead audit partner.
Country and regional budgets, containing financial and operating targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators, The Committee also meets independently with the Companys are reviewed by the Group executive and must support regional auditors and with the Head of Internal Audit to informally discuss business strategies.
The consolidated Group budget is approved matters of interest.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Operational and financial reports are prepared and distributed to Companys auditor is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are reviewed against requires prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the budget and forecast and explanations are received for all material provision of non-audit services does not impair their independence movements.
The senior management team are integrally involved or objectivity.
The Companys auditor is prohibited from providing in the business and to this extent regularly discuss and address services that would be considered to jeopardise their independence issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
such as book keeping services, valuations and system design.
Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, are held with the regional teams and functional heads on a monthly Internal control basis.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control operating throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval of investment and capital expenditure and asset disposals.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to Key policies and control procedures including finance, operations, manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and health and safety are documented in manuals having objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance that Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff on the potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected Groups intranet system.
in a timely manner for appropriate action.
The Groups internal audit remit is to report to the Audit Committee The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year on the Groups worldwide operations.
Its resourcing programme and up to 11 March 2005 the date of approval of this Annual Report of work and findings, including any material control issues and which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the resultant actions, are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly plans staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
and performance targets for 2005 have been set by the executive High standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, directors and are regularly reviewed by the main Board in the regulations and internal policies are demanded from staff at context of the Groups overall objectives.
The control framework and key procedures, which were in place The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at various throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, comprise the times during the year in the conduct of its review of internal controls: following: An ongoing process, through Board meetings, senior management The Board normally meets every six months together with certain meetings and divisional reviews as well as other management other senior executives to consider Group financial performance, meetings, for the formal identication of significant operational business development and Group management issues.
The risks and mitigating control processes.
directors and ofcers of Group subsidiaries comprise executives 18 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued A series of internal audit reviews of country regions covering the financial, operational and overhead functions.
These reviews are based on the identied risks.
The findings and recommendations of each review are reported to management and the Audit Committee.
System of reporting the effectiveness of key financial, operational and compliance controls.
This is based on a comprehensive internal control self-assessment questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and action plans are reviewed by senior management and summarised for the Board.
Dialogue with shareholders and AGM The Board believes that good communications with shareholders is important.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to meet with Companys institutional investors and presentations are made on the operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
Roadshows are held immediately after the presentation of the full year and interim results.
The non-executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be matters that such shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
The principal communication with private investors is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board Committee at the AGM and meet the executive and non-executive directors informally after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the for, against and abstention proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
Notice of the AGM is posted to the shareholders with the Annual Report at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website www.
