09 Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Directors receive a full induction programme covering briefings and Combined Code meetings with divisional directors and senior management.
All W&DB is committed to achieving high standards of corporate Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its following appointment and to re-election at intervals not exceeding business activities.
The Company is considering the revisions made three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms of to the Combined Code which apply for reporting periods beginning three years.
on or after 1 November 2003, and it is taking steps to address all the principles as soon as possible.
The Board considers that all Directors bring an individual judgement to the Boards deliberations in respect of strategy, performance, The Board considers that it has achieved compliance with Section 1 of resources, key appointments and standards of conduct.
All Nonthe existing Combined Code during the period, and to the date of the executive Directors are considered by the Board to be free from any report, and has set out below how the principles of the Combined business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise Code have been applied by the Company.
During the current year of their judgement.
During the year the Non-executive Directors Derek Andrews notice period was reduced from two years to one year.
conducted a review of the Board, its Directors and Committees, and the Chairman.
Where relevant, and not in respect of their own Structure performance, the Chairman and the Chief Executive were consulted The Board comprises four Non-executive Directors, one of whom is in evaluating the composition of the Board and Committees, the Chairman, and five Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors meeting process, information and training, leadership, effectiveness all possess a wide range of skills and experience, and all exercise and compliance with the revised Combined Code.
independent judgement with the exception of David Thompson who, because of his past experience as a long serving Executive All Board Committees have agreed terms of reference which have been Director, cannot be considered independent.
Peter Lipscomb, updated to meet the provisions of the new Combined Code and are Deputy Chairman, has been appointed the senior independent Nonapproved by the Board.
They can be found on the Companys website.
His experience and business interests outside the Group ensure his independence from management.
Board appointments and re-elections are considered by the Nomination Committee which comprises David Thompson Chairman, The Board meets twelve times each year in the normal course of business Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay, Lord Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb.
No and additionally as required.
With the exception of Lord Hodgson and Director is involved in any decision regarding his own re-appointment.
Derek Andrew, who were unable to attend one board meeting each, The Committee met twice during the year and all Committee members all the Directors attended all the Board meetings.
The Board has a attended all the scheduled meetings.
formal schedule of matters reserved to it for approval ensuring that it considers strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters The Remuneration Committee comprises Peter Lipscomb Chairman, with timely information provided in advance of each meeting.
All Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson with Ralph Findlay in attendance if Directors receive within their Board papers details of the Groups required.
It is responsible for agreeing contract terms, remuneration performance against budget and individual reports from the Chief and benefits, including bonuses, for Executive Directors and, where Executive, Finance Director and divisional managing directors.
It is also responsible for the granting Board also receives presentations from senior executives which of LTIP awards and share options.
It met three times during the year provides an opportunity for formal discussions with senior managers.
and all Committee members attended all scheduled meetings.
The Group has a strategy away-day to enable the full Board to focus on each division and consider the Groups opportunities, threats and The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, Lord operating issues.
There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb.
It reviews the results of the full year between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
audit and the interim results each year.
It also monitors the relationship with the Auditors, agrees their scope of work and fees and annually The Executive Committee, which comprises the five Executive assesses their cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It met Directors, meets weekly.
The Board is briefed on the decisions three times during the year and all Committee members attended all reached by the Committee including those involving risk management the scheduled meetings with the exception of Lord Hodgson who and health and safety issues.
was unable to attend one of the meetings.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Company uses the Auditors for non-audit services such as Secretary and also to independent legal advice.
On appointment to taxation advice, taxation planning and corporate activity.
When the Board all Executive Directors receive appropriate training: all appointing advisors for non-audit work the Company considers the 33 W&DB 2004 Annual report 09 Corporate governance value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this respect the risks facing the Group at the weekly Executive Directors it has used other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The Board are meetings and at monthly briefing meetings with the senior executive satisfied that where the Company Auditors are used for non-audit management group.
Risk and litigation issues are also reviewed services their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
regularly by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Communication The principal elements of the system of internal control, which is W&DB recognises the importance of maintaining a strong relationship designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate with its shareholders as a key priority with the annual report and interim and manage the risks to which the Company is exposed, include: statement as the principal media used, as well as regular institutional a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, presentations, covering reports on trading, market conditions responsibility and accountability: and strategy.
W&DB also maintains a website, to provide up to a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the date information on its operations and brands.
All Company annual Group budget being formally approved by the Board: and announcements are available on this site together with slides for a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major investment analysts presentations.
and strategic plans including capital expenditure and development programmes.
The annual general meeting, which is regularly attended by approximately 300 shareholders, provides an important forum for Significant treasury, cash management and investment matters are communicating directly with shareholders and the opportunity for reviewed and approved by the Board.
shareholders to raise questions with the Board.
The Board delivers a presentation to shareholders of the key highlights during the financial The Groups system of internal controls can only manage rather than year.
The Chairman announces the results of proxy voting on each eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can, resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Internal control W&DB, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Health & Safety Authority, has complied with the Combined Code provisions on The management of health and safety matters is based on the Health internal control.
The Executive Directors examine, and report to the and Safety Executives management system HSG 65.
All areas of Board as necessary, the procedures required to implement in full the the Group have been risk assessed and appropriate control measures guidance on internal control produced by the Turnbull Committee.
Regular Safety Committee meetings are held throughout In addition, the Board has taken account of the Association of British the Group and independent experts such as the Royal Society for the Insurers guidelines on socially responsible investment and in this Prevention of Accidents ROSPA and insurers are used.
respect is included on the FTSE4Good index.
Going concern The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls The Directors are confident, having reviewed the Groups budget for and for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a the 52 weeks to 1 October 2005 and relevant plans beyond that balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out these date, that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to responsibilities throughout the year.
Following the foundations laid down continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
This review included in 2003 each division has discussed and revised their internal control an analysis of business operating plans, proposed capital expenditure systems for identifying and reporting on their major risks.
Each and associated cash flow projections.
It also included a comparison Executive Director has brought the results of their divisional review of results and ratios within the Groups committed borrowing facilities.
to the main Board in their papers for consideration.
It is therefore considered appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
There is a weekly review by the Executive Directors, and annually by the Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
These cover financial, By Order of the Board operational and risk management issues.
Day-to-day control is implemented by divisional management teams which report to divisional managing directors.
In addition the Board regularly reviews the significant risks faced by the Group.
Action plans formulated in 2003 continue to provide the basis of the Groups response to all risks Anne-Marie Brennan Secretary to which the Group is exposed and are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
3 December 2004 There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 34 W&DB 2004 Annual report
