Corporate Governance Introduction attendees in sufficient time in advance of the meeting and further The Board confirms that it has complied throughout the period information is available to directors upon request.
relating to this report with the provisions of the 1998 Combined Informal meetings are held by non-executive directors with Code on Corporate Governance, as laid down in the Listing Rules executive directors and senior executives and their teams between of the Financial Services Authority as set out below, save in respect Board meetings to gain a proper understanding of key business of provisions A.
2.2 and D. 3.1 in relation to the number functions and significant amounts of information are provided on of independent non-executive directors.
A new code was issued in an ad hoc basis.
July 2003 which applies to reporting years beginning on or after 1st November 2003.
The Company has commenced action to comply A schedule of matters specially reserved for the Boards decision with the additional requirements of that code.
This report deals has been agreed.
The Boards main functions are: with compliance with the previous code provisions.
agreeing objectives, strategy and long range plans.
The Board The Board and its Committees meets annually specifically to discuss strategy, policies and Board objectives in addition to assessing, on an ongoing basis, the The Board, under the Group Chairman, comprises three executive implications of current events for the Group: and four non-executive directors, all of whom are subject to controlling and monitoring operating plans, trading and retirement by rotation in accordance with the Articles of financial performance.
This includes a detailed review of annual Association.
In addition, all directors are subject to re-election budgets, management accounts and business performance, at the next annual general meeting after their appointment.
treasury policy and practice, and staffing levels and recruitment.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for periods of Each month, performance against budget is reported to the three years and executive directors do not have contracts lasting Board together with details of variances, and forecasts of each more than one year.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief half year results are reviewed: Executive are separated.
approving major capital expenditures and transactions, Applying the guidelines in the new Combined Code, Charles including acquisitions and disposals: Thompson and David Shipley are not deemed independent and therefore the number of independent non-executive directors and approving any matters relating to share capital and dividend composition of committees did not comply with the Combined Code payments: throughout the period.
The Boards aim is to move to full compliance approving and monitoring financial structure, including finance as soon as practicable.
It believes that all non-executive directors arrangements and financial ratios: bring considerable experience and judgement to the Board and act independently in carrying out their responsibilities.
The nonagreeing and monitoring risk management strategy and executive directors regularly meet together in the absence of other controls: and directors.
The senior non-executive director is Robert Shrager to setting proper policies and practices in relation to corporate whom any relevant concerns can be taken.
governance, health and safety and ethical and environmental A training manual has been prepared for directors, and new matters.
directors are given a comprehensive information pack on the The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Groups business plus additional training as appropriate.
Board procedures are followed and procedures are in place for the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Groups strategic directors to take independent advice if necessary.
All directors have development and for ensuring that control and management are access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose of the highest standard, performance is optimised and that the appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
interests of shareholders are fully safeguarded.
An Executive Committee which is not a Committee of the Board, Board meetings were formally held ten times in the period and were chaired by the Group Chief Executive and comprising the Group attended where appropriate by senior executives of the business.
In Finance Director and four senior executives, meets not less than addition, one meeting devoted solely to strategy was held during the weekly to manage operational performance against budget and period.
Board agendas are agreed in advance of meetings and targets, prepare capital and revenue budgets for Board approval, directors are free to raise other issues at meetings.
Papers on items and exercise authorities delegated by the Board or not requiring to be discussed at a Board meeting are circulated to directors and Board or Board committee approval.
16 The Board has established three committees with set terms of approving grants and awards under option and long-term reference.
Minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all incentive plans: and directors.
reviewing terms of employment including termination arrangements for executive directors and senior executives.
Audit Committee Chaired by Robert Shrager It consults with the Group Chief Executive and Chairman in relation The Audit Committee comprises the four non-executive directors to matters concerning directors who report to them and senior and its meetings are attended at its request by the external executives.
auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Business Risk and others as required.
The Company Secretary acts as The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Further detail of the Groups Remuneration policy and advisors is The external auditors also have meetings with members of the set out in the Board Report on Directors Remuneration which is Committee without members of management being present.
This policy was submitted to and approved by the shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, has written and will be submitted for approval again at the 2004 Annual terms of reference and is responsible for: General Meeting.
recommending to the Board the appointment of the external Nomination Committee auditors and agreeing their fees: Chaired by John Westwood reviewing the conduct, control and effectiveness of the annual The Nomination Committee comprises the four non-executive external audit and the ongoing Group internal audit: directors and normally meets twice a year.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
It is responsible for: reviewing financial statements and recommending them to the Board: reviewing the size, composition and effectiveness of the Board: reviewing the adequacy of the systems of accounting and of identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies internal control, including recommending approval of the and ensuring an effective process for Board succession: and statements on internal control to the Board: considering the effectiveness and performance of directors in ensuring the maintenance of a control environment directed relation to their continuation in service as an executive or nontowards the proper management of risk: and executive director, whether retiring by rotation or on expiry of their term of appointment.
considering any other matters relating to the Groups financial After an appropriate review procedure, and taking into account affairs, including accounting policies.
the requirements of the positions, and qualifications and The Committee monitors both audit and non-audit services contribution of the relevant candidates, the Nomination Committee provided to the Company by the auditors to ensure that auditors recommended the re-appointment of directors retiring by rotation independence is safeguarded and the level of non-audit services at the 2004 annual general meeting or whose term of appointment does not compromise that independence.
In the period under review, had expired.
in addition to statutory audits, services from auditors comprised taxation compliance and special projects.
A breakdown of audit and The Group Chief Executive, who was appointed a director during non-audit fees in the period is set out in note 5 on page 29. the period, was already employed within the Group.
His appointment was proposed by the Committee to the Board, taking Remuneration Committee into account the requirements of the position and qualifications Chaired by Charles Thompson and experience needed, and after interviews and assessment to The Remuneration Committee comprises the four non-executive confirm that these requirements were met.
directors and meets periodically as required but not less than three times a year.
It is responsible for: An external search consultant has been engaged to assist in identifying suitable candidates for new non-executive directors setting the policy regarding senior executive remuneration: against a pre-agreed specification and to ensure that the Board determining the remuneration packages for the Groups and its committees fully comply with all Combined Code executive directors: requirements as soon as practicable.
17 Corporate Governance continued Attendance The Board has approved the policies and controls of the Group Details of attendees at the principal Board and committee meetings treasury function.
Further details are contained in the Finance in the period are as follows: Review on pages 6 and 7.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Issues in respect of internal control and potential breaches that Total 10 Total 6 Total 11 Total 2 arise during the year are brought to the attention of the Audit John Hargreaves 10 N A N A N A Committee for discussion and review to ensure that the appropriate John King 9 N A N A N A actions are being taken.
Phil Dutton 9 N A N A N A David Shipley 9 6 9 2 Risk Management Robert Shrager 10 6 10 2 The pro-active management of risk has always been part of the Charles Thompson 10 6 11 2 decision making process within the Group and remains a prime John Westwood 8 4 9 2 responsibility of the Board.
At the highest level, the Board considers strategic risk every time it meets.
All meetings from date of appointment.
The risk profile of the Group is changing as the business change When a director has not been able to attend a Board or committee programme progresses and impacts on retail operations and meeting, his comments have been received in advance by the supply chain.
Such changes have attendant risks and potential chairman of the meeting.
issues which are monitored and highlighted in formal reports which are carefully considered and addressed by the senior executives Internal control and the Board on an ongoing basis.
The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a During the course of the period, the key risk matrix and process system is designed to monitor and manage rather than eliminate has been further developed.
The matrix assigns the accountabilities the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives, and provides for managing risk to line management.
Risk assessments are only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material carried out routinely by each business area or major project to misstatement or loss.
During the period, the directors reviewed the identify the likelihood and impact of risks occurring.
effectiveness of the Groups internal financial and non-financial controls.
Maintenance of I. T. systems has been safeguarded by outsourcing of the function to a major I. T. company and supported by an The operation and monitoring of the Groups system of internal agreement with a third party disaster recovery service to provide control is regularly reviewed by the Group Business Risk alternative offsite facilities in the event of an emergency.
department, whose head of function reports directly to the Group Finance Director and also has direct access to the Chairman of the Procedures are in place to highlight any significant changes in the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews reports risk profile to senior management and the Board as necessary.
and recommendations from the Group Business Risk Department, Management of the key risks associated with the Group achieving including quarterly reports on internal financial control, retail, supply its business plans has been delegated to executive management chain, fixed assets and treasury.
and is embedded in the business processes.
In addition, a whistle It also considers accounting policy and internal control matters blowing procedure has been developed.
raised by the external auditors, and reports on major projects, The Board confirms, as detailed above, that throughout the period including system implementation.
there was an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The Board approves the Groups annual objectives and agrees an managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The process was in annual budget within that framework.
Performance against the place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the budget is reviewed weekly and monthly and forecasts updated Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by accordingly.
the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
The Board has the primary responsibility for the approval of major Ethical The Board considers the ethical performance of its suppliers as an capital expenditure and financing.
Below Board level there are clearly defined levels of management authority for the approval of important part of the business relationship.
The Groups Socially capital revenue expenditure and investments divestments, which Responsible Trading Policy is based on the internationally accepted standards set out in the Ethical Trading Initiatives Base Code of are reviewed periodically.
This policy, which is available on the Groups continuing development of the environmental management website and is displayed on notice boards throughout head office system: and stores, forms part of the supplier manual, which is issued to the development of the key performance indicators for the main all suppliers.
environment risks: and Suppliers measures to ensure ongoing compliance with laws and In addition to completing a compliance questionnaire all new regulations.
suppliers are visited by trained technical professionals.
Existing The environmental policy is available on the Company website and suppliers are visited periodically.
is displayed on notice boards throughout the head office and stores.
A process of third party verification of standards is performed on a The Group Finance Director is responsible for environmental issues.
risk basis by country of origin.
Relations with shareholders Remedial action is taken to address any issues raised during these The Group regularly communicates with principal shareholders and processes.
institutional investors through a planned programme of meetings, site visits and individual meetings.
This includes formal During the period in excess of seventy suppliers underwent presentations of annual and half yearly results, which are made structured appraisals, part of which covered the elements of the available to all web users by webcast.
Regular two-way communication with fund managers, institutional During the period a product safety manual has been designed investors and analysts is actively pursued outside of close periods which sets out the minimum product safety standards for suppliers and this encompasses issues such as performance, policy and to achieve.
A separate specific questionnaire has also been strategy.
This gives the Board an understanding of investor priorities designed for Childrenswear suppliers.
and improves investors knowledge of the Groups business and Suppliers failing to meet the required standards are given a performance.
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders remedial action plan to resolve the issues, after which alternative are regularly communicated to the Board.
Non-executive directors sources are sought.
attend formal presentations and the senior independent director meets shareholders as required.
The Group Chief Executive is the director responsible for ethical issues.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with shareholders and the Group Chairman Environmental comments on current business activity.
The meeting is attended by During the period, the Company has continued to monitor the all directors, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration, environmental impacts in the following areas: Nomination and Audit Committees to answer questions on their vehicle fuel usage and vehicle emissions: committees activities.
Details of proxy voting are available after the use of energy: voting on each resolution.
The notice of annual general meeting is sent to shareholders not less than twenty working days in advance.
the sourcing of products: the construction phase of store development: Shareholders are sent a Report and Accounts and Interim Statement each year and the Groups website includes general and packaging management and disposal: and financial information on the Group.
This includes copies of all waste disposal and management.
announcements and reports immediately after release or The Company has continued improvement in cardboard and plastic publication.
Shareholders can also access their shareholding waste recycling under the control of a designated packaging manager.
details electronically and register their proxy vote on line.
The Company environmental management plan includes: the formalisation of waste management data collection systems By order of the Board and procedures: environmental risk management systems for the selection of John G Berry suppliers and for the construction of new stores: Company Secretary the review of fuel storage and delivery procedures: 21st May 2004 19
