Energy Generators Revenue year ended 31 December 2008 Brush Turbogenerators is the worlds largest independent 229.4m manufacturer of electricity generating equipment for industrial, marine, oil and gas and offshore applications.
With three plants in the UK, 1 Headline operating profit year ended 31 December 2008 Holland and the Czech Republic, it designs, manufactures and services 30.9m generators ranging from 10 MW to 250 MW for both steam and gas turbine applications and supplies a globally diverse customer base.
Average number of employees year ended 31 December 2008 Marelli Motori, based in Italy, is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of industrial electrical motors and generators with a 3,633 since acquisition on 1 July 2008 product portfolio ranging from 12 kW to 4.5 MW.
Harrington is a Revenue by geographic area % specialist UK based generator manufacturer servicing the rail, EUROPE 95% telecommunications, construction and military markets.
ASIA 3% Brush Turbogenerators benefited during the six months ended NORTH AMERICA 1% 31 December 2008 from continuing strong demand in its principal REST OF WORLD 1% market, global power generation.
During this period many changes and new initiatives have taken place in order to enable the business to take fuller advantage of the opportunities available in this growing market sector.
Revenue by sector % First, changes were made to senior management to get away AFTERMARKET 15% from a production-led culture and this has resulted in a transformation UTILITIES 37% in the attitudes and morale of the workforce.
Now in place is a INDUSTRIALS 21% cohesive, performance-driven management team working together towards an agreed set of demanding goals and objectives.
OIL & GAS 17% Approximately 10 million is being invested in new machinery, OTHER 10% principally in the Czech Republic, to alleviate capacity bottlenecks and improve productivity.
This is part of a continuous improvement in all Business units Websites aspects of the business, incorporating the best principles of lean key www.
eu performance indicators, which will yield further efficiency benefits www.
It is intended that this will enable Brush www.
co. uk Turbogenerators to better serve its customers and demonstrate its www.
hss-ltd. com commitment to work alongside and support them for the future.
com The improvement in the manufacturing efficiency of the three plants will achieve significant reductions in the production cycle.
Not only will this yield cost savings: it will result in material reductions in stock and work in progress and will free up capacity to enable the business to engage more in profitable aftermarket and servicing activities.
Aftermarket has been targeted as a priority by management on the basis of the opportunity created by the large installed base of 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset Brush machines in operation.
amortisation other than computer software.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 08 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES Marelli reported good results in the six month period ended In order to further improve the profitability of HSS a plan has 31 December 2008, benefiting from strong end markets.
Marelli took been approved to open a circuit breaker assembly and test facility in full advantage, recording its highest ever sales in 2008.
This is to be located near Shanghai and is due to start Following the acquisition by Melrose and the approval of a capital production in the third quarter of 2009.
This will initially be for the investment programme, management continued with its successful purpose of supplying product for use by its facility in Blackwood, strategy of expanding Marellis product range from motors to a followed soon after by targeting the Chinese market, where substantial complementary range of higher value added generators, which now opportunities exist.
Harrington traded satisfactorily in the six months to 31 December Outlook 2008.
Its results were adversely affected by the conclusion of two large Reflecting the favourable market conditions for HSS, the company telecom and military projects.
The business continued its transition entered 2009 with an order book equivalent to approximately six from supplying the UK hire market with standard 3 kVA 100 kVA months sales.
This, together with managements actions, gives us generators to focus on specialist applications where the companys confidence that HSS will continue to make good progress in 2009. unrivalled technical expertise and facilities can be more fully utilised.
Brush Transformers Outlook Brush Transformers manufactures mid-range power transformers for Brush Turbogenerators end markets remain robust and together with the UK electrical utilities and the oil and gas sector, principally in the signs of strong tendering activity, the company entered 2009 with an Middle East.
order book of 289 million, representing some 73% of budgeted Brush Transformers reported a creditable set of results for the sales.
This, together with the actions undertaken to improve the six month period ended 31 December 2008.
Sales increased both as business, supported by strong cost control measures, give us selling prices were raised to meet significant material cost inflation confidence that Brush Turbogenerators will have a good year.
especially copper and also as a result of operational efficiencies gained from lean manufacturing principles.
Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS Demand from Brush Transformers customers, principally UK HSS produces a wide range of indoor and outdoor electrical based DNOs, remained firm throughout the year reflecting favourable distribution equipment, principally electrical switchgear, and sells into market conditions in the UK electricity transmission industry.
addition, the new Brush Transformers joint venture started production HSS continued its recovery in the period ended 31 December in Abu Dhabi in 2008 with the aim of servicing public utility customers 2008 following the supply chain problems arising from the earlier in the Middle East, a market in which the Brush name has a very factory consolidation in Blackwood, South Wales.
charged with resolving these problems, including the recruitment of a supply chain director, and this has resulted in a substantial increase Outlook in the profitability of the business.
Brush Transformers entered 2009 with an order book sufficient to meet HSSs market remained buoyant in the period with continuing the companys entire budgeted sales for the year.
With management demand from the DNOs together with increasing orders both in the firmly focused on achieving the customers requirements efficiently and UK and in export markets for its switchgear products used in mass on time, we look forward to a successful year for Brush Transformers.
This should lead to further orders in 2009.
As a result of the improvements in supply chain management and the targeting of working capital control, dramatic improvements were achieved during the year in profit conversion to cash.
Brush Turbogenerators supplied this 48 MW, 2 pole synchronous motor for the Hawker Siddeley Switchgear supply the acclaimed Horizon Outdoor Circuit Ormen Lange gas field in Norway.
This project is expected to meet 20% of the Breaker designed for 38 kV application.
It is compact, simple to install and is UKs gas requirements.
designed to provide a lifetime of trouble-free operation and a cost-effective substation solution.
